
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Robinson, James Harvey, 1863-1936.. Outlines of European history. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2010).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAB8216
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		

			
				
				

					
						OUTLINES OF EUROPEAN HISTORY
					
					
						PART II
						FROM THE OPENING OF THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY TO THE PRESENT
							DAY
					
				
				BY JAMES HARVEY ROBINSON PROFESSOR OF HISTORY
							IN COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY AND CHARLES A. BEARD ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF POLITICS IN COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY
				
				
					GINN AND COMPANY
					BOSTON * NEW YORK * CHICAGO * LONDON ATLANTA * DALLAS * COLUMBUS
						* SAN FRANCISCO
				
			
			
				

				ENTERED AT STATIONERS' HALL
				
				COPYRIGHT, 1907, 1912, BY JAMES HARVEY ROBINSON AND CHARLES A.
					BEARD
				
				ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 515.7


				The Atheneum Press
				
				GINN AND COMPANY. PROPRIETORS * BOSTON * U.S.A.
			
			
				

				PREFACE

				This volume is the second part of an outline history of Europe from the earliest times to
					our own day. The general survey, the first portion of which will appear shortly, is
					prepared in the belief that the regular historical course in the high schools may be
					wisely reduced from four to three years in order that more attention may be given to
					economics, civics, and kindred subjects.

				The present volume is, in the main, a condensation and revision of the authors' larger
					work, The Development of Modern Europe, which has been brought down to
					date by a review of the last decade of European politics.

				The purpose of the manual is to narrate the history of the past in such a fashion as to
					help make plain the events and problems of our world. As stated in the preface to the
					older work, it has been the authors' ever-conscious aim to enable the reader to catch up
					with his own times; to read intelligently the morning paper; to know about the workings of
					the English cabinet even if he has forgotten about the composition of the Model
					Parliament.

				Fortunately the tendency to emphasize modern history has now so far advanced that it is
					not necessary to explain why we have devoted nearly one half the space at our disposal to
					the momentous eighteenth, nineteenth, and twentieth centuries.

				We are indebted to Professor C. H. Hayes for reading a portion of the proofs dealing with
					the most recent events.

				J. H. R.
				COLUMBIA UNIVERSITYC. A. B.
				NEW YORK

			

			
			
				
				CONTENTS
				CHAPTER PAGE
				
					THE OLD RÉGIME IN
							EUROPE
						
							 Life in the Country-- Serfdom 2
							 The Towns and the Guilds 4
							 The Nobility and the Monarchy 8
							The Catholic Church 12
							 The English Established Church and the Protestant Sects 15
						

					 THE SPIRIT OF REFORM
						
							 The Development of Modern Science 21
							 How the Scientific Discoveries produced a Spirit of Reform 25
							 Reforms of Frederick II, Catharine II, and Joseph II 39
							 Peculiarities of the English Government in the Eighteenth Century 45
						
					

					 RUSSIA AND PRUSSIA BECOME EUROPEAN POWERS
						
							 Peter the Great plans to make Russia a European Power 53
							 Rise of Prussia 58
							 The Wars of Frederick the Great 62
							 Three Partitions of Poland, 1772, 1793, and 1795 66
						
					

					 THE STRUGGLE BETWEEN FRANCE AND ENGLAND IN INDIA AND NORTH AMERICA
						
							 How Europe began to extend its Commerce over the Whole World 72
							 The Contest between France and England for Colonial Empire 74
							 Revolt of the American Colonies from England 79
						
					

					 THE EVE OF THE FRENCH REVOLUTION
						
							 The Ancien Régime in France 87
							 How Louis XVI tried to play the Benevolent Despot 101
						
					

					
					CHAPTER PAGE

					 THE FRENCH REVOLUTION
						
							 How the Estates General were summoned in 1789 108
							 First Reforms of the National Assembly, July-October, 1789 117
							 The National Assembly in Paris, October, 1789, to September, 1791 124
						
					

					 THE FIRST FRENCH
							REPUBLIC
						
							 The Abolition of the Monarchy, 1791-1792 133
							 The Reign of Terror 148
						
					

					 NAPOLEON BONAPARTE
						
							 Bonaparte's First Italian Campaign 168
							 How Bonaparte made himself Master of France 177
							 The Second Coalition against France 182
						
					

					 EUROPE AND NAPOLEON
						
							 Bonaparte restores Order and Prosperity in France 193
							 Napoleon destroys the Holy Roman Empire and reorganizes Germany 199
							 The Continental Blockade 207
							 Napoleon at the Zenith of his Power (1808-1812) 210
							 The Fall of Napoleon 217
						
					

					 THE RECONSTRUCTION OF EUROPE AT THE CONGRESS OF VIENNA
						
							 The Congress of Vienna and its Work 227
							 The Holy Alliance: Metternich becomes the Chief Opponent of Revolution
									236
						
					

					 EUROPE AFTER THE CONGRESS OF VIENNA
						
							 The Restoration in France and the Revolution of 1830 241
							 Establishment of the Kingdom of Belgium 247
							 Formation of the German Confederation 249
							 Restoration in Spain and Italy 253
							 The Spanish-American Colonies and the Revolution of 1820 255
						
					

					 THE INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION
						
							 Invention of Machinery for Spinning and Weaving 261
							 The Steam Engine 264
							 Capitalism and the Factory System 267
							 The Rise of Socialism 275
						
					

					

					CHAPTER PAGE

					 REVOLUTION OF 1848 IN FRANCE
						
							 Unpopularity of Louis Philippe's Government 283
							 The Second French Republic 286
							 Louis Napoleon and the Second French Empire 292
						
					

					 REVOLUTION OF 1848,-- AUSTRIA, GERMANY, ITALY
						
							 The Fall of Metternich 296
							 Failure of the Revolution in Bohemia and Hungary 302
							 Austria regains her Power in Italy 305
							 Outcome of the Revolution of 1848 in Germany 307
						
					

					 THE UNIFICATION OF ITALY
						
							 Cavour and Italian Unity 311
							 The Kingdom of Italy since 1861 316
						
					

					 FORMATION OF THE GERMAN EMPIRE AND THE AUSTRO-HUNGARIAN
							UNION
						
							 Prussia assumes the Leadership in Germany 323
							 War of 1866 and the Formation of the North German Federation 327
							 The Franco-Prussian War and the Foundation of the German Empire 330
							 Austria-Hungary since 1866 334
						
					

					 THE GERMAN EMPIRE
						
							 The German Constitution 340
							 Bismarck and State Socialism 344
							 Germany's Policy of Protection and Colonization 348
							 Reign of William II 350
						
					

					 FRANCE UNDER THE THIRD REPUBLIC
						
							 Establishment of the Third French Republic 356
							 The Third French Republic since 1875: the Dreyfus Affair 364
							 The Separation of Church and State 368
							 Political Parties in France 374
							 Expansion of France 376
						
					

					 POLITICAL AND SOCIAL REFORMS IN ENGLAND
						
							 Parliamentary Reform 381
							 The English Cabinet 390
							 Social Reforms 394
							 Free Trade 402
							 The Irish Question 405
						
					

					

					CHAPTER PAGE

					
						THE BRITISH EMPIRE IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY
						
							 The Extension of British Dominion in India 412
							 The Dominion of Canada 418
							 The Australasian Colonies 421
							 Growth of the British Empire in Africa 425
						
					

					 THE RUSSIAN EMPIRE IN
							THE NINETEENTH CENTURY
						
							 The Reigns of Alexander I and Nicholas I 432
							 The Freeing of the Serfs and the Growth of the Spirit of Revolution 436
							 The Industrial Revolution in Russia 441
							 The Struggle for Liberty under Nicholas II 443
						
					

					 TURKEY AND THE EASTERN QUESTION
						
							 The Greek War of Independence 454
							 The Crimean War 457
							 Revolts in the Balkan Peninsula 459
							 The Independent Balkan States 462
						
					

					 THE EXPANSION OF EUROPE IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY
						
							 The Growth of International Trade and Competition: Imperialism 466
							 Relations of Europe with China 476
							 How Japan became a World Power 478
							 War between Japan and China and its Results 482
							 The Boxer Rising. The Russo-Japanese War 484
							 Occupation of Africa by the European Powers 491
							 Influences favoring Universal Peace 501
						
					

					 THE LAST DECADE
							OF EUROPEAN POLITICS
						
							 Political Reforms 506
							 Recent Social Legislation 522
							 International Affairs 530
						
					

					APPENDIX I 
							LIST OF RULERS
								535
						
					

					APPENDIX II 
							LIST OF BOOKS
								541
						
					

					INDEX
						547

				
			


			
				
				LIST OF COLORED MAPS
				PAGE
				
					Northeastern Europe in Time of Peter the Great 62
					India about 1763 74
					England, France, and Spain in America, 1750 82
					France during the Revolution 150
					Europe at the Time of Napoleon's Greatest Power, about 1810 214
					Europe after 1815 230
					Italy in 1859 318
					Austria-Hungary 332
					The German Empire since 1871 348
					The British Empire 414
					Western Portion of the Russian Empire 438
					Southeastern Europe, 1914 458
					The European Advance in Asia 476
					The Partition of Africa 492
					Europe at the Present Time 518
				

				LIST OF FULL-PAGE ILLUSTRATIONS
				
					View of Berlin in 1717 4
					Peter the Great watching the Procedure of the House of Lords in England 56
					Swearing in the Deputies at the National Assembly, June 17, 1789 116
					Emperor Napoleon I 198
					Marshal Ney sustaining the Rear Guard of the Grand Army on the Retreat from Moscow
							218
					A Working-Class Demonstration in England against Unemployment 278
					Conflict between Workingmen and the Troops in Paris, June, 1848 288
					Frederick William IV taking Oath to support the Constitution, February 6, 1850 308
					Victor Emmanuel's Entrance to Florence in 1860 314
					Opening the Reichstag of the North German Confederation 328
					Bismarck 344
					Catholics defending a Church against the Inventory of Property by the Police, in
						1906 372
					Men rioting for the Suffrage in Hyde Park (1866) 388
					Zambesi Bridge on the Cape-to-Cairo Railway 430
					The Greatest General of All 500
					Lloyd George 508
				
			
		

		
			
			Outlines of European history

				
				

				
					OUTLINES OF EUROPEAN HISTORY

					CHAPTER I

					
						THE OLD RÉGIME IN EUROPE

						This volume deals with the last two hundred years of European history. Compared with
							the long period of more than five thousand years which lies between Menes I-- the
							first ruler whose name we know-- and Louis XIV of France, this seems a very short
							time. In many ways, however, it has seen far more astonishing changes than those which
							took place in all the preceding centuries.

						Could Louis XIV now see the France he once ruled, how startling the revolution in
							politics and industry would seem to him! The railroads, the steel steamships, the
							great towns with well-lighted, smoothly paved, and carefully drained streets; the
							innumerable newspapers and the beautifully illustrated periodicals, the government
							schools, the popular elections, and his deserted palaces; the vast factories full of
							machinery, working with a precision and rapidity far surpassing those of an army of
							skilled workmen; and most astonishing of all, the mysterious and manifold applications
							of electricity which he knew only in the form of lightning playing among the storm
							clouds,-- all these marvels would combine to convince him that he died on the eve of
							the greatest revolution in industry, government, and science that the world has ever
							seen. It is the purpose of this volume, after describing the conditions in Europe
							before the French Revolution, to show as clearly as possible the changes which have
							made the world what we find it to-day.
					

					

					
						LIFE IN THE COUNTRY-- SERFDOM

						I. If a peasant who had lived on a manor in the time of the
							Crusades had been permitted to return to earth and travel about Europe at the opening
							of the eighteenth century, he would have found much to remind him of the conditions
							under which, seven centuries earlier, he had extracted a scanty living from the soil.
							It is true that the gradual extinction of serfdom in western Europe appears to have
							begun as early as the twelfth century, but it proceeded at very different rates in
							different countries. In France the old type of serf had largely disappeared by the
							fourteenth century, and in England a hundred years later. In Prussia, Austria, Poland,
							Russia, Italy, and Spain, on the contrary, the great mass of the country people were
							still bound to the soil in the eighteenth century.

						Survivals of manorial system in France in the eighteenth
							century

						Even in France there were still many aggravating traces of the old system.1 The peasant was, it is true, no
							longer bound to a particular manor; he could buy or sell his land at will, could marry
							without consulting the lord, and could go and come as he pleased. Many bought their
							land outright, while others disposed of their holdings and settled in town. But the
							lord might still require all those on his manor to grind their grain at his mill, bake
							their bread in his oven, and press their grapes in his wine press. The peasant might
							have to pay a toll to cross a bridge or ferry which was under the lord's control, or a
							certain sum for driving his flock past the lord's mansion. Many of the old
							arrangements still forced the peasant occupying a particular plot of land to turn over
							to the lord a certain portion of his crops, and, if he sold his land, to pay the lord
							a part of the money he received for it.

						Survivals in England of the manorial system

						In England in the eighteenth century the prominent features of serfdom had
							disappeared more completely than in France. The services in labor due to the lord had
							long been commuted into money payments, and the peasant was thus transformed into a
							renter or owner of his holding. He still took off his hat 1 For a list of feudal
									dues, see Readings, Vol. I, p. 139.
							 to the squire of his village, and was liable to be
							severely punished by his lord, who was commonly a justice of the peace, if he was
							caught shooting a hare on the game preserves.

						Condition of the serfs in a great part of Europe in the eighteenth
							century

						In central, southern, and eastern Europe the medieval system still prevailed; the
							peasant lived and died upon the same manor, and worked for his lord in the same way
							that his ancestors had worked a thousand years before. Everywhere the same crude
							agricultural instruments were still used, and most of the implements and tools were
							roughly made in the village itself. The wooden plows commonly found even on English
							farms were constructed on the model of the old Roman plow; wheat was cut with a
							sickle, grass with an unwieldy scythe, and the rickety cart wheels were supplied only
							with wooden rims.

						Wretched houses of the peasants

						The houses occupied by the country people differed greatly from Sicily to Pomerania,
							and from Ireland to Poland; but, in general, they were small, with little light or
							ventilation, and often they were nothing but wretched hovels with dirt floors and
							neglected thatch roofs. The pigs and the cows were frequently better housed than the
							people, with whom they associated upon very familiar terms, since the barn and the
							house were commonly in the same building. The drinking water was bad, and there was no
							attempt to secure proper drainage. Fortunately every one was out of doors a great deal
							of the time, for the women as well as the men usually worked in the fields,
							cultivating the soil and helping to gather in the crops.

						Unattractive character of country life

						Country life in the eighteenth century was obviously very arduous and unattractive
							for the most part. The peasant had no newspapers to tell him of the world outside his
							manor, nor could he have read them if he had them. Even in England not one farmer in
							five thousand, it is said, could read at all; and in France the local tax collectors
							were too uneducated to make out their own reports. Farther east conditions must have
							been still more cheerless, for a Hungarian peasant complains that he owed four days of
							his labor to his lord, spent the fifth and sixth hunting and fishing for him, while
							the seventh belonged to God.
					

					

					
						THE TOWNS AND THE GUILDS

						Towns still medieval in the eighteenth century

						2. Even in the towns there was much to remind one of the Middle
							Ages. The narrow, crooked streets, darkened by the over-hanging buildings and scarcely
							lighted at all by night, the rough cobblestones, the disgusting odors even in the best
							quarters,-- all offered a marked contrast to the European cities of to-day, which have
							grown tremendously in the last hundred years in size, beauty, and comfort.

						London

						In 1760 London had half a million inhabitants, or about a tenth of its present
							population. There were of course no street cars or omnibuses, to say nothing of the
							thousands of automobiles which now thread their way in and out through the press of
							traffic. A few hundred hackney coaches and sedan chairs served to carry those who had
							not private conveyances and could not, or would not, walk. The ill-lighted streets
							were guarded at night by watchmen who went about with lanterns, but afforded so little
							protection against the roughs and robbers that gentlemen were compelled to carry arms
							when passing through the streets after nightfall.

						Paris

						Paris was somewhat larger than London and had outgrown its medieval walls.1 The police were more efficient
							there, and the highway robberies which disgraced London and its suburbs were almost
							unknown. The great park, the "Elysian fields," and many boulevards which now form so
							distinguished a feature of Paris were already laid out; but, in general, the streets
							were still narrow, and there were none of the fine broad avenues which now radiate
							from a hundred centers. There were few sewers to carry off the water which, when it
							rained, flowed through the middle of the streets. The filth and the bad smells of
							former times still remained, and the people relied upon easily polluted wells or the
							dirty River Seine for their water supply.

						German towns

						In Germany very few of the towns had spread beyond their medieval walls. They had,
							for the most part, lost their former 1 For a description of the streets of Paris
									in 1787, see Readings, Vol. I, p. 141.
							
							
								VIEW OF BERLIN IN 1717
							
							
							 prosperity, which was still attested by the fine houses
							of the merchants and of the once flourishing guilds. Berlin had a population of about
							two hundred thousand, and Vienna was slightly larger. The latter city, now one of the
							most beautiful in the world, then employed from thirty to a hundred street cleaners
							and boasted that the street lamps were lighted every night, while many towns contented
							themselves with dirty streets and with light during the winter months, and then only
							when the moon was not scheduled to shine.

						Italian cities

						Even the famous cities of Italy,-- Milan, Genoa, Florence, Rome,-- notwithstanding
							their beautiful palaces and public buildings, were, with the exception of water-bound
							Venice, crowded into the narrow compass of the town wall, and their streets were
							narrow and crooked.

						Trade and industry conducted on a small scale

						Another contrast between the towns of the eighteenth century and those of to-day lay
							in the absence of the great wholesale warehouses, the vast factories with their tall
							chimneys, and the attractive department stores which may now be found in every city
							from Dublin to Budapest. Commerce and industry were in general conducted upon a very
							small scale, except at the great ports like London, Antwerp, or Amsterdam, where goods
							coming from and going to the colonies were brought together.


						The growth of industry under the influence of the various machines which were being
							invented during the latter part of the eighteenth century will form the subject of a
							later chapter. It is clear, however, that before the introduction of railroads,
							steamships, and machine-equipped factories, all business operations must have been
							carried on in what would seem to us a slow and primitive fashion.

						The trades organized into guilds

						A great part of the manufacturing still took place in little shops where the articles
							when completed were offered for sale. Generally all those who owned the several shops
							carrying on a particular trade, such as tailoring, shoemaking, baking, tanning,
							bookbinding, hair cutting, or the making of candles, knives,  hats, artificial flowers, swords, or wigs, were organized into a guild-- a
							union-- the main object of which was to prevent all other citizens from making or
							selling the articles in which the members of the guild dealt. The number of master
							workmen who might open a shop of their own was often limited by the guild, as well as
							the number of apprentices each master could train. The period of apprenticeship was
							long, sometimes seven or even nine years, on the ground that it took years to learn
							the trade properly, but really because the guild wished to maintain its monopoly by
							keeping down the number who could become masters. When the apprenticeship was over,
							the workman became a "journeyman" and might never perhaps become a master workman and
							open a shop of his own.

						Guilds in England

						This guild system had originated in the Middle Ages and was consequently hundreds of
							years old. In England the term of seven years was required for apprenticeship in all
							the staple trades, although the rule was by no means universally enforced. In
							Sheffield no master cutler could have more than one apprentice at a time; the master
							weavers of Norfolk and Norwich were limited to two apprentices each, and no master
							hatter in England could have more than two.1

						Guilds in France and Germany

						In France the guilds were more powerful than in England, since they had been
							supported and encouraged by Colbert, who believed that they kept up the standard of
							French products. In Germany the organization was much stricter and more widespread
							than either in England or in France. Old regulations concerning apprenticeship and the
							conduct of the various trades were still enforced. As a general rule, no master could
							have more than one apprentice, manage more than one workshop, or sell goods that he
							had not himself produced.

						Strife among the guilds

						Everywhere a workman had to stick to his trade; if a cobbler should venture to make a
							pair of new boots, or a baker should roast a piece of meat in his oven, he might be
							expelled 1 Adam Smith's
								account of the guilds of his day is printed in the Readings, Vol.
								I, p. 142.
							 from the guild unless he made amends. In Paris a hatter,
							who had greatly increased his trade by making hats of wool mixed with silk, had his
							stock destroyed by the guild authorities on the ground that the rules permitted hats
							to be made only of wool and said nothing of silk. The trimming makers had an edict
							passed forbidding any one to make buttons that were cast or turned or made of
							horn.

						The guilds not only protected themselves against workmen who opened shops without
							their permission, but each particular trade was in more or less constant disagreement
							with the other trades as to what each might make. The goldsmiths were the natural
							enemies of all who used gold in their respective operations, such as the clock and
							watch makers, the money changers, and those who set precious stones. Those who dealt
							in natural flowers were not allowed to encroach upon those who made artificial ones.
							One who baked bread must not make pies or cakes. The tailor who mended clothes must
							not permit himself to make new garments.

						Three important differences between the guilds and the modern trade
							unions

						The guilds differed from the modern trade unions in several important respects. In
							the first place, it was only the master workmen, who owned the shops, tools, or
							machines, who belonged to them. The apprentices and journeymen, that is, the ordinary
							workmen, were excluded and had no influence whatever upon the policy of the
							organization. In the second place, the government enforced the decisions of the
							guilds. For example, in Paris, if it was learned that a journeyman goldbeater was
							working for himself, a representative of the guild betook himself to the offender's
							house, accompanied by a town officer, and seized his tools and materials, after which
							the unfortunate man might be sent to the galleys for three years or perhaps get off
							with a heavy fine, imprisonment, and the loss of every chance of ever becoming a
							master. Lastly, the guilds were confined to the old-established industries which were
							still carried on, as they had been during the Middle Ages, on a small scale in the
							master's house.

						

						Decline of the guilds

						In spite, however, of the seeming strength of the guilds, they were really giving way
							before the entirely new conditions which had arisen. Thoughtful persons disapproved of
							them on the ground that they hampered industry and prevented progress by their outworn
							restrictions. In many towns the regulations were evaded or had broken down altogether,
							so that enterprising workmen and dealers carried on their business as they pleased.
							Then, as we have said, it was only the old industries that were included in the guild
							system. The newer manufactures, of silk and cotton goods, porcelain, fine glassware,
							etc., which had been introduced into Europe, were under the control of individuals or
							companies who were independent of the old guilds and relied upon monopolies and
							privileges granted by the rulers, who, in France at least, were glad to foster new
							industries.
					

					
						THE NOBILITY AND THE MONARCHY

						3. Not only had the medieval manor and the medieval guilds
							maintained themselves down into the eighteenth century, but the successors of the
							feudal lords continued to exist as a conspicuous and powerful class. They enjoyed
							various privileges and distinctions denied to the ordinary citizen, although they
							were, of course, shorn of the great power that the more important dukes and counts had
							enjoyed in the Middle Ages, when they ruled over vast tracts, could summon their
							vassals to assist them in their constant wars with their neighbors, and dared defy
							even the authority of the king himself.

						The former independence of the feudal nobles lost by the eighteenth
							century

						It is impossible to recount here how the English, French, and Spanish kings gradually
							subjugated the turbulent barons and brought the great fiefs directly under royal
							control. Suffice it to say that the monarchs met with such success that in the
							eighteenth century the nobles no longer held aloof but eagerly sought the king's
							court. Those whose predecessors had once been veritable sovereigns within their own
							domains, had declared war even against the king, coined money, made  laws for their subjects, and meted out justice in their
							castle halls, had, by the eighteenth century, deserted their war horses and laid aside
							their long swords; in their velvet coats and high-heeled shoes they were contented
							with the privilege of helping the king to dress in the morning and attending him at
							dinner. The battlemented castle, once the stronghold of independent chieftains, was
							transformed into a tasteful country residence where, if the king honored the owner
							with a visit, the host was no longer tempted, as his ancestors had been, to shower
							arrows and stones upon the royal intruder.

						The French nobility

						The French noble, unlike the English, was not fond of the country but lived with the
							court at Versailles whenever he could afford to do so, and often when he could not. He
							liked the excitement of the court, and it was there that he could best advance his own
							and his friends' interests by obtaining lucrative offices in the army or Church or in
							the king's palace. By their prolonged absence from their estates the nobles lost the
							esteem of their tenants, while their stewards roused the hatred of the peasants by
							strictly collecting all the ancient manorial dues in order that the lord might enjoy
							the gayeties at Versailles.

						The French nobility a privileged class

						The unpopularity of the French nobility was further increased by their exemptions
							from some of the heavy taxes, on the ground that they were still supposed to shed
							their blood in fighting for their king instead of paying him money like the
							unsoldierly burghers and peasants. They enjoyed, moreover, the preference when the
							king had desirable positions to grant. They also claimed a certain social superiority,
							since they were excluded by their traditions of birth from engaging in any ordinary
							trade or industry, although they might enter some professions, such as medicine, law,
							the Church, or the army, or even participate in maritime trade without derogating from
							their rank. In short, the French nobility, including some one hundred and thirty
							thousand or one hundred and forty thousand persons, constituted a privileged class,
							although they no  longer performed any of the high
							functions which had been exercised by their predecessors.

						The ennobled

						To make matters worse, very few of the nobles really belonged to old feudal families.
							For the most part they had been ennobled by the king for some supposed service, or had
							bought an office, or a judgeship in the higher courts, to which noble rank was
							attached. Naturally this circumstance served to rob them of much of the respect that
							their hereditary dignity and titles might otherwise have gained for them.

						Peculiar position of the English peerage

						In England the feudal castles had disappeared earlier even than in France, and the
							English law did not grant to any one, however long and distinguished his lineage,
							special rights or privileges not enjoyed by every freeman. Nevertheless there was a
							distinct noble class in England.1 The monarch had formerly been accustomed to summon his earls and some of
							his barons to take council with him, and in this way the peerage developed; this
							included those whose title permitted them to sit in the House of Lords and to transmit
							this honorable prerogative to their eldest sons. But the peers paid the same taxes as
							every other subject and were punished in the same manner if they were convicted of an
							offense. Moreover only the eldest surviving son of a noble father inherited his rank,
							while on the Continent all the children became nobles. In this way the number of the
							English nobility was greatly restricted, and their social distinction roused little
							antagonism.

						The German knights still resembled medieval lords

						In Germany, however, the nobles continued to occupy very much the same position which
							their ancestors held in the Middle Ages. There had been no king to do for all Germany
							what the French kings had done for France; no mighty man had risen strong enough to
							batter down castle walls and bend all barons, great and small, to his will. The result
							was that there were in Germany in the eighteenth century hundreds of nobles dwelling
							in strong old castles and ruling with a high hand domains which were sometimes no
							larger than a 1 For Voltaire's account of the English nobility, see Readings, Vol. I, p. 146.
							 big American farm. They levied taxes, held courts,
							coined money, and maintained standing armies of perhaps only a handful of
							soldiers.

						The chief noble was the king
						His arbitrary powers

						In all the countries of Europe the chief noble was of course the monarch himself, to
							whose favor almost all the lesser nobles owed their titles and rank. He was, except in
							a few cases, always despotic, permitting the people no share in the management of the
							government and often rendering them miserable by needless wars and ill-advised and
							oppressive taxes. He commonly maintained a very expensive court and gave away to
							unworthy courtiers much of the money which he had wrung from his people. He was
							permitted to imprison his subjects upon the slightest grounds and in the most unjust
							manner; nevertheless he usually enjoyed their loyalty and respect, since they were
							generally ready to attribute his bad acts to evil councilors.

						The services performed by even despotic kings

						On the whole, the king merited the respect paid him. He it was who had destroyed the
							power of innumerable lesser despots and created something like a nation. He had put a
							stop to the private warfare and feudal brigandage which had disgraced the Middle Ages.
							His officers maintained order throughout the country so that merchants and travelers
							could go to and fro with little danger. He opened highroads for them and established a
							general system of coinage, which greatly facilitated business operations. He
							interested himself more and more in commerce and industry and often encouraged
							learning. Finally, by consolidating his realms and establishing a regular system of
							government, he prepared the way for the European State of to-day in which the people
							are either accorded an effective control over lawmaking and the disposition of the
							public revenue, or, as in the case of France, the monarch has been discarded
							altogether as no longer needful. Democracy and political equality would, in fact, have
							been impossible if monarchs had not leveled down the proud and mighty nobles who
							aspired to be petty kings in their domains.
					

					
					
						THE CATHOLIC CHURCH

						Importance of the mediæval Church in modern problems

						4. The eighteenth century had inherited from the Middle Ages not
							only the nobility but the clergy, who, especially in explaining Catholic countries,
							were set off from the nation at large by their peculiar privileges. They were far more
							powerful and better organized than the nobility and exercised a potent influence in
							the State. The clergy owed their authority to the Church, which for many centuries had
							been the great central institution of Europe. The medieval Church serves to explain
							more of the problems' which have faced reformers in modern times than even the feudal
							and manorial systems.

						It must be remembered that every one in the Middle Ages had been required to belong
							to the Church, somewhat in the same way that we to-day all belong as a matter of
							course to the State. Before the Protestant Revolt all the states of western Europe had
							formed a single religious association from which it was a crime to revolt. To refuse
							allegiance to the Church or to question its authority or teachings was reputed treason
							against God, the most terrible of all crimes.

						The Church did not rely for its support, as churches must to-day, upon the voluntary
							contributions of its members, but enjoyed the revenue from vast domains which kings,
							nobles, and other landholders had from time to time given to the churches and
							monasteries. In addition to the income from its lands, the Church had the right, like
							the State, to impose a regular tax which was called the tithe. All who were subject to
							this were forced to pay it, whether they cared anything about religion or not, just as
							we are all compelled to pay taxes imposed by the government under which we live.

						The Church a monarchy with the Pope at its head

						Like the State, the Church had its own law courts in which many cases were decided.
							The Church not only performed the functions of a state, making laws for its members,
							taxing them, and trying and punishing them if they broke its laws; it had also the
							organization of a state. Unlike the Protestant ministers 
							of to-day, all churchmen and all religious associations of mediaeval Europe were under
							one supreme head, the Roman pontiff, who made laws for all and controlled every Church
							officer, bishop, or priest, wherever he might be, whether in Italy, Spain, Germany, or
							Ireland. The Pope's control was facilitated by the circumstance that the Church had
							one official language-- Latin-- in which all communications were written and its
							services everywhere conducted.

						Great powers still retained by the Catholic Church in the eighteenth
							century

						In spite of the changes which had overtaken the Church since the Middle Ages, it
							still retained its ancient external appearance in the eighteenth century-- its
							gorgeous ceremonial, its wealth, its influence over the lives of men, its intolerance
							of those who ventured to differ. from the conceptions of Christianity which it
							believed to be its duty to impose upon every one. The ecclesiastical courts still
							tried many cases, in spite of the widening jurisdiction of the royal judges. The
							Church could fine and imprison those whom it convicted of blasphemy, contempt of
							religion, or heresy. The clergy managed the schools and saw to it that the children
							were brought up in the orthodox faith. Hospitals and other charitable institutions
							were under their control. They registered all births and deaths, and only the
							marriages which they sanctified were regarded by the State as legal. The monasteries
							still existed in great numbers and owned vast tracts of land. A map of Paris made in
							1789 shows no less than sixty-eight monasteries and seventy-three nunneries within the
							walls. The clergy still forced the laity to pay the tithe, as in the Middle Ages, and
							still enjoyed exemption from the direct taxes.

						Intolerance of both Catholics and Protestants

						Both the Catholic and the Protestant churches were very intolerant, and in this were
							usually supported by the government, which was ready to punish or persecute those who
							refused to conform to the State religion, whatever it might be, or ventured to speak
							or write against its doctrines. There was none of that freedom which is so general
							now, and which permits a man to worship or not as he pleases, and even to denounce  religion in any or all its forms without danger of
							imprisonment, loss of citizenship, or death.

						Position of the Protestants in France

						In France, after the revocation of the Edict of Nantes in 1685, Protestants had lost
							all civil rights. According to a decree of 1724, those who assembled for any form of
							worship other than the Roman Catholic were condemned to lose their property; the men
							were to be sent to the galleys and the women imprisoned for life. The preachers who
							convoked such assemblies or performed Protestant ceremonies were punishable with
							death; but only a few executions took place, for happily the old enthusiasm for
							persecution was abating. None the less, all who did not accept the Catholic teachings
							were practically outlawed, for the priests would neither recognize the marriages nor
							register the births and deaths over which they were not called to preside. This made
							it impossible for Protestants to marry legally and have legitimate children, or to
							inherit or devise property. A royal proclamation in 1712 forbade physicians to visit
							such sick people as refused to call in a Catholic confessor, and the kings still
							pledged themselves in their coronation oaths to extirpate heretics.

						Censorship of the press

						Books and pamphlets were carefully examined in order to see whether they contained
							any attacks upon the orthodox Catholic beliefs or might in any way serve to undermine
							the authority of the Church or of the king. The Pope had long maintained a commission
							(which still exists) to examine new books, and to publish from time to time a list,
							called the "Index," of all those which the Church condemned and forbade the faithful
							to read. The king of France, as late as 1757, issued a declaration establishing the
							death penalty for those who wrote, printed, or distributed any work which appeared to
							be an attack upon religion. The teachings of the professors in the university were
							watched. A clergyman who ventured to compare the healing of the sick by Christ to the
							cures ascribed to Æsculapius was arrested (about 1750) by order of the king's judges
							at Paris and forced to leave the country. A considerable number of  the most enlightened books issued in France in the
							eighteenth century were condemned either by the clergy or the king's courts, and were
							burned by the common hangman or suppressed. Not infrequently the authors, if they
							could be discovered, were imprisoned.

						Censorship ineffective

						This did not check speculation, however, and books attacking the old ideas and
							suggesting reforms in Church and State constantly appeared and were freely
								circulated.1 The writers took
							care not to place their names or those of the publishers upon the title-pages, and
							many such books were printed at Geneva or in Holland, where great freedom
							prevailed.

						Strength of the Church in Spain, Austria, and Italy

						In Spain, Austria, and Italy, however, and especially in the Papal States, the
							clergy, particularly the Jesuits, were more powerful and enjoyed more privileges than
							in France. In Spain the censorship of the press and the Inquisition constituted a
							double bulwark against change until the latter half of the eighteenth century.

						Peculiar situation of the great German prelates

						In Germany the position of the Church varied greatly. The southern states were
							Catholic, while Prussia and the northern rulers had embraced Protestantism. Many of
							the archbishops, bishops, and abbots ruled as princes over their own lands and made
							the best arrangements they could with the Pope.
					

					

						THE ENGLISH ESTABLISHED CHURCH AND THE PROTESTANT SECTS

						The Anglican Church as established under Queen Elizabeth
							(1558-1603)

						5. In England Henry VIII had thrown off his allegiance to the Pope
							and declared himself the head of the English Church. Under his daughter, Queen
							Elizabeth (1558-1603), Parliament had established the Church of England. It abolished
							the mass and sanctioned the Book of Common Prayer, which has since remained the
							official guide to the services in the Anglican Church. The beliefs of the Church were
							brought 1 See following chapter.
							 together in the Thirty-Nine Articles, from which no one
							was to vary or depart in the least degree. The system of government of the Roman
							Catholic Church, with its archbishops, bishops, and priests, was retained, but the
							general charge of religious matters and the appointment of bishops were put in the
							hands of the monarch or his ministers. All clergymen were required to subscribe
							solemnly to the Thirty-Nine Articles. All public religious services were to be
							conducted according to the Prayer Book, and those who failed to attend services on
							Sunday and holydays were to be fined.

						Persecution of the Catholics in England

						Those who persisted in adhering to the Roman Catholic faith fared badly, although
							happily there were no such general massacres as overwhelmed the Protestants in France.
							Under the influence of the Jesuits some of the English Catholics became involved in
							plots against the heretical queen, Elizabeth, who had been deposed by the Pope. These
							alleged "traitors" were in some instances executed for treason. Indeed, any one who
							brought a papal bull to England, who embraced Catholicism, or converted a Protestant
							was declared a traitor. Fines and imprisonment were inflicted upon those who dared to
							say or to hear mass.1

						The Puritans

						But there were many Protestants who did not approve of the Anglican Church as
							established by law. These "Dissenters" developed gradually into several sects with
							differing views. By far the most numerous of the Dissenters were the Baptists. They
							spread to America, and were the first Protestant sect to undertake foreign missions on
							a large scale, having founded a society for that purpose as early as 1792.2

						1 It may be noted here that
							the Catholics found a refuge in America from their Protestant persecutors, as did the
							Huguenots who fled from the oppression of the Catholic government in France. The
							colony of Maryland was founded by Lord Baltimore in 1634 and named after the French
							wife of Charles I. In the nineteenth century the number of Catholics in the United
							States was vastly increased by immigration from Ireland, Italy, and other countries,
							so that there are over thirteen millions to-day who have been baptized into the Roman
							Catholic Church.

						2 For the legal position of
							the Catholics and Dissenters, see Blackstone's description in the Readings, Vol. I, p. 162


						

						The Friends, or Quakers

						Another English sect which was destined also to be conspicuous in America was the
							Society of Friends, or Quakers, as they are commonly called. This group owes its
							origin to George Fox, who began his preaching in 1647. The Friends were distinguished
							by their simplicity of life and dress, their abhorrence of war, and their rejection of
							all ceremonial, including even the Lord's Supper. While there were fanatics among them
							whose practices brought discredit upon them both in Old England and New, no adherents
							to the Christian Church have ever shown their religion more consistently or
							beautifully in their lives than the Friends. Their chief stronghold in America has
							always been Pennsylvania, more particularly Philadelphia and its neighborhood, where
							they settled under the leadership of William Penn.

						John Wesley and the Methodists
						John Wesley's conversion, 17387

						The last of the great Protestant sects to appear was that of the Methodists. Their
							founder, John Wesley, when at Oxford had established a religious society among his
							fellow-students. Their piety and the regularity of their habits gained for them the
							nickname of "Methodists." After leaving Oxford, Wesley spent some time in the colony
							of Georgia. On his return to England in i738 he came to believe in the sudden and
							complete forgiveness of sins known as " conversion," which he later made the basis of
							his teaching. As he entered a meeting in London in 1738 he found the preacher reading
							Luther's preface to The Epistle to the Romans, and thus relates his own experience:
							"About a quarter before nine, while he [the preacher] was describing the change which
							God works in the heart through faith in Christ, I felt my heart strangely warmed. I
							felt I did trust in Christ and in Christ alone for salvation, and an assurance was
							given me that he had taken away my sins, even mine, and saved me from the law of sin
							and death."1

						This memorable evening marked a turning point in the life of Wesley. He soon began a
							series of great revival meetings in London and other large towns. He journeyed up and
							down the land, aided in his preaching by his brother Charles and by the 1 For
									extracts from Wesley's famous Journal, see Readings, Vol. I, p.
									168.
							 impassioned Whitefield. Only gradually did the
							Methodists separate themselves from the Church of England, of which they at first
							considered themselves members. In 1784 the numerous American Methodists were formally
							organized into the Methodist Episcopal Church, and early in the nineteenth century the
							English Methodists became an independent organization. At the time of Wesley's death
							his followers numbered over fifty thousand, and there are now in the United States
							over six millions, including the various branches of the Church.

						Persecution of the Dissenters under Charles II
						Test Act

						Parliament under Charles II showed itself very intolerant toward all Dissenters
							alike,-- Presbyterians, Independents, Baptists, Quakers, Unitarians. Any clergyman who
							refused to accept everything in the Book of Common Prayer was to lose his benefice,
							and two thousand clergymen resigned for conscience' sake. In 1664 the Conventicle Act
							declared that any one attending any religious meeting not held in accordance with the
							practices of the English Church was liable, for repeated offenses, to be transported
							to some distant colony, and some of the more obstinate Dissenters were actually
							exiled. Finally, by the Test Act, every one was excluded from office who did not take
							the sacrament according to the usages of the Church of England.

						Legal intolerance in England
						The privileges of the Anglican clergy

						Upon the accession of William and Mary an Act of Toleration was passed in 1689, which
							permitted Dissenters to hold meetings; but " Papists and such as deny the Trinity "
							were explicitly excluded, so England still continued to maintain an intolerant system
							in the eighteenth century. It had a State Church with a particular form of belief and
							of services which was established by the government in Elizabeth's time. Even if the
							Dissenters were permitted to hold services in their own way, they were excluded from
							government offices unless they violated their own faith, nor could they obtain a
							degree at the universities. Only the members of the Anglican Church could hold a
							benefice. Its bishops had seats in the House of Lords and its priests enjoyed a social
							preeminence denied to the dissenting ministers.

						

						Existence of Catholics not recognized in England

						Those who clung to the Roman Catholic faith, to the Pope and the mass, were forbidden
							to enter England. The celebration of the mass was strictly prohibited. All public
							offices were closed to Catholics and of course they could not sit in Parliament.
							Indeed, legally, they had no right whatever to be in England at all. In the middle of
							the eighteenth century an English court decided that the law did not recognize the
							existence of Roman Catholics within the realm and that their presence was only made
							possible by the lax enforcement of the law.

						Freedom of the press in England

						The Church courts still existed in England and could punish laymen for not attending
							church, for heresy, and for certain immoral acts. As late as 1812 a young woman was
							imprisoned for two years by a Church court because she failed to perform the penance
							it had imposed and had no money to pay the fees involved in the trial. The
							ecclesiastical tribunals still tried matrimonial cases and those concerned with wills.
							But one who published a book or pamphlet did not have to obtain the permission of the
							government as in France, and nowhere was there such unrestrained discussion of
							scientific and religious matters at this period as in England. As we shall see in the
							following chapter, England, in the early eighteenth century, was the center of
							progressive thought from which the French philosophers and reformers drew their
							inspiration.

						In fact, the old spirit of persecution for mere diversity of opinion had almost
							disappeared in England. Blackstone, writing at the opening of the reign of George III,
							summed up the legal view in the following manner: "Certainly our ancestors were
							mistaken in their plans of compulsion and intolerance. The sin of schism, as such, is
							by no means the object of temporal coercion and punishment. If through weakness of
							intellect, through misdirected piety, through perverseness and acerbity of temper, or
							(which is often the case) through a prospect of secular advantage in herding with a
							party, men quarrel with the ecclesiastical establishment, the civil magistrate has
							nothing to do with it, unless their tenets and practice are such as threaten  ruin or disturbance to the State. He is bound indeed to
							protect the Established Church, and if this can be better effected by admitting none
							but its genuine members to offices of trust and emolument, he is certainly at liberty
							to do so, the disposal of offices being matter of favor and discretion. But, this
							point being once secured, all persecution for diversity of opinions, however
							ridiculous or absurd they may be, is contrary to every principle of sound policy and
							civil freedom."
					

					
						REFERENCES
Germany in the Eighteenth Century: FYFFE,
									History of Modern Europe, pp. 23-27; HENDERSON,
									A Short History of Germany, Vol. II, pp. 219-226.
								The French Nobility: LOWELL,
									The Eve of the French Revolution, pp. 70-82.
								The English Peerage: MAY,
									Constitutional History of England, chap. v.
								Town Life in France: LOWELL, pp.
									154-185.
								Town Life in England: LECKY,
									History of England in the Eighteenth Century, Vol. II, chap. iv,
									pp. 97-115; chap. v, pp. 211-228.
								Country Life in France:
									LOWELL, pp. 186-206.
								Country Life in England: LECKY, Vol. II,
									chap. v, pp. 203-211; Vol. VII, chap. xxi, pp. 241-265.
								The Clergy in France: LOWELL, pp.
									25-39.
								Religious Sects in England: LECKY, Vol.
									III, chap. viii, pp. 1-154; Vol. VI, chap. xvii, pp. 1-47; MAY,
									chap. xii.
					
				

				
					

					CHAPTER II THE SPIRIT OF REFORM

					
						THE DEVELOPMENT OF MODERN SCIENCE

						The spirit of reform

						6. A thoughtful observer in the eighteenth century would, as we
							have seen, have discovered many medieval institutions which had persisted in spite of
							the considerable changes which had taken place in conditions and ideas during the
							previous five hundred years. Serfdom, the guilds, the feudal dues, the nobility and
							clergy with their peculiar privileges, the declining monastic orders, the confused and
							cruel laws,-- these were a part of the heritage which Europe had received from what
							was coming to be regarded as a dark and barbarous period. People began to be keenly
							alive to the deficiencies of the past, and to look to the future for better things,
							even to dream of progress beyond the happiest times of which they had any record. They
							came to feel that the chief obstacles to progress were the outworn institutions, the
							ignorance and prejudices of their forefathers, and that if they could only be freed
							from this incubus, they would find it easy to create new and enlightened laws and
							institutions to suit their needs.

						Veneration for the past: "the good old days"

						This attitude of mind seems natural enough in our progressive age, but two centuries
							ago it was distinctly new. Mankind has in general shown an unreasoning respect and
							veneration for the past. Until the opening of the eighteenth century the former times
							were commonly held to have been better than the present; for the evils of the past
							were little known, while those of the present were, as always, only too apparent. Men
							looked backward rather than forward. They aspired to fight as well, or be as saintly,
							or write as good books, or paint as beautiful  pictures,
							as the great men of old. That they might excel the achievements of their predecessors
							did not occur to them. Knowledge was sought not by studying the world about them but
							in some ancient authority. In Aristotle's vast range of works on various branches of
							science, the Middle Ages felt that they had a mass of authentic information which it
							should be the main business of the universities to explain and impart rather than to
							increase or correct by new investigations. Men's ideals centered in the past, and
							improvement seemed to them to consist in reviving, so far as possible, the "good old
							days."

						How the scientists have created the spirit of progress and
							reform

						It was mainly to the patient men of science that the western world owed its first
							hopes of future improvement. It is they who have shown that the ancient writers were
							mistaken about many serious matters and that they had at best a very crude and
							imperfect notion of the world. They have gradually robbed men of their old blind
							respect for the past, and by their discoveries have pointed the way to indefinite
							advance, so that now we expect constant change and improvement and are scarcely
							astonished at the most marvelous inventions.

						In the Middle Ages the scholars and learned men had been but little interested in the
							world about them. They devoted far more attention to philosophy and theology than to
							what we should call the natural sciences. They were satisfied in the main to get their
							knowledge of nature from reading the works of the ancients,-- above all, those of
							Aristotle.

						Three modern scientific methods of discovering truth
						1. Exact observation of the phenomena themselves
						2. Experimentation
						3. Scientific apparatus

						As early as the thirteenth century, however, a very extraordinary Franciscan friar,
							Roger Bacon, showed his insight by protesting against the exaggerated veneration for
							books. Bacon advocated three methods of reaching truth which are now followed by all
							scientific men. In the first place, he proposed that natural objects and changes
							should be examined with great care, in order that the observer might determine exactly
							what happened in any given case. This has led in modern times to incredibly refined
							measurement and analysis. The chemist, for  example, can
							now determine the exact nature and amount of every substance in a cup of impure water,
							which may appear perfectly limpid to the casual observer. Then, secondly, Bacon
							advocated experimentation. He was not contented with mere observation of what actually
							happened, but tried new and artificial combinations and processes. Nowadays
							experimentation is, of course, constantly used by scientific investigators, and by
							means of it they ascertain many things which the most careful observation would never
							reveal. Thirdly, in order to carry on investigation and make careful measurements and
							experiments, apparatus designed for this special purpose was found to be necessary. As
							early as the thirteenth century it was discovered, for example, that a convex crystal
							or bit of glass would magnify objects, although several centuries elapsed before the
							microscope and telescope were devised.

						Francis Bacon (1561-1626)

						The first scholar to draw up a great scheme of all the known sciences and work out a
							method of research which, if conscientiously followed, promised wonderful discoveries,
							was Francis Bacon, a versatile English statesman and author who wrote in the time of
							James I.1 It seemed to him (as
							it had seemed to his namesake, Roger Bacon, three centuries earlier) that the
							discoveries which had hitherto been made were as nothing compared with what could be
							done if men would but study and experiment with things themselves, abandon their
							confidence in vague words like "moist" and "dry," "matter" and "form," and repudiate
							altogether "the thorny philosophy" of Aristotle which was taught in the universities.
							"No one," he declares, "has yet been found so firm of mind and purpose as resolutely
							to compel himself to sweep away all theories and common notions, and to apply the
							understanding, thus made fair and even, to a fresh examination of details. Thus it
							comes about that human knowledge is as yet a mere medley and ill-digested mass, made
							up of much credulity and much accident, and also of childish notions which we early
							have imbibed."

						1 For
								extracts from Bacon's works, see Readings, Vol, I, p.
							174.

						

						Discovery of natural laws

						The observation and experimentation of which we have been speaking were carried on by
							many earnest workers and soon began to influence deeply men's conceptions of the earth
							and of the universe at large. Of the many scientific discoveries, by far the most
							fundamental was the conviction that all things about us follow certain natural and
							immutable laws; and it is the determination of these laws and the seeking out of their
							applications to which the modern scientific investigator devotes his efforts, whether
							he be calculating the distance of a nebula or noting the effect of a drop of acid upon
							a frog's foot. He has given up all hope of reading man's fate in the stars, or of
							producing any results by magical processes. He is convinced that the natural laws have
							been found to work regularly in every instance where they have been carefully
							observed. Unlike the medieval scholars, therefore, he hesitates to accept as true the
							reports which reach him of alleged miracles, that is, of exceptions to the general
							laws in which he has come to have such confidence. Moreover his study of the regular
							processes of nature has enabled him, as Roger Bacon foresaw, to work wonders far more
							marvelous than any attributed to the medieval magician.

						Opposition to scientific discoveries

						The path of the scientific investigator has not always been without its thorns.
							Mankind has changed its notions with reluctance. The churchmen and the professors in
							the universities were wedded to the conceptions of the world which the medieval
							theologians and philosophers had worked out, mainly from the Bible and Aristotle. They
							clung to the text-books which they and their predecessors had long used in teaching,
							and had no desire to begin a protracted and painful examination of the innumerable
							substances and organisms from a study of which the newer scientists were gathering
							information that refuted the venerated theories of the past.

						Hostile attitude of the theologians

						The theologians were especially prone to denounce scientific discoveries, on the
							ground that they did not harmonize with the teachings of the Bible as commonly
							accepted. It was naturally a great shock to them, and also to the public at large, to
							have  it suggested that man's dwelling place, instead of
							being God's greatest work, to which he had subordinated everything and around which
							the whole starry firmament revolved, was after all but a tiny speck in comparison with
							the whole universe, and its sun but one of an innumerable host of similar glowing
							bodies of stupendous size, each of which might have its particular family of planets
							revolving about it.

						Galileo punished for advocating new ideas

						The bolder thinkers were consequently sometimes made to suffer for their ideas, and
							their books prohibited or burned. Galileo was forced to say that he did not really
							believe that earth revolved about the sun; and he was kept in partial confinement for
							a time and ordered to recite certain psalms every day for three years for having
							ventured to question the received views in a book which he wrote in Italian, instead
							of Latin, so that the public at large might read it.1
					

					
						HOW THE SCIENTIFIC DISCOVERIES PRODUCED A SPIRIT
								OF REFORM

						Effects of scientific discoveries on religious belief

						7. Those who accepted the traditional views of the world and of
							religion, and opposed change, were quite justified in suspecting that scientific
							investigation would sooner or later make them trouble. It taught men to distrust, and
							even to scorn, the past which furnished so many instances of ignorance and gross
							superstition. Instead of accepting the teachings of the theologians, both Catholic and
							Protestant, that mankind through Adam's fall was rendered utterly vile, and incapable
							(except through God's special grace) of good thoughts or deeds, certain 1 But even the scientists
								themselves did not always readily accept new discoveries. Francis Bacon, who lived
								some seventy years after Copernicus, still clung to the old idea of the revolution
								of the sun about the earth and still believed in many quite preposterous illusions,
								as, for example, that "it hath been observed by the ancients that where a rainbow
								seemeth to hang over or to touch, there breatheth forth a sweet smell"; and that
								"since the ape is a merry and a bold beast, its heart worn near the heart of a man
								comforteth the heart and increaseth audacity." In the latter half of the eighteenth
								century Lavoisier was burned in effigy in Berlin because his discovery of oxygen
								threatened the accepted explanation of combustion.
							 thinkers began to urge that man was by nature good; that
							he should freely use his own God-given reason ; that he was capable of becoming
							increasingly wise by a study of nature's laws, and that he could indefinitely better
							his own condition and that of his fellows if he would but free himself from the
							shackles of error and superstition. Those who had broadened their views of mankind and
							of the universe refused longer to believe that God had revealed himself only to the
							Jewish people, but maintained that he must be equally solicitous for all his creatures
							in all ages and in all parts of a boundless universe where everything was controlled
							by his immutable laws. This tendency to "enlarge God" is illustrated in the famous
							"Universal Prayer" of Alexander Pope, written about 1737: 
								
									Father of all! in ev'ry age, 
									In ev'ry clime adored,
									By saint, by savage, and by sage,
									Jehova, Jove, or Lord!
								
								
								
									Yet not to earth's contracted span
									Thy goodness let me bound,
									Or think Thee Lord alone of man,
									When thousand worlds are 'round.
								

						The deists

						Pope was suspected of "infidelity" to the Christian religion and of rejecting the
							Bible as God's revelation to man, although nowadays the most devout Christian could
							read without offense his long poem called "An Essay on Man." But there were in his day
							a considerable number of "freethinkers" in England who attacked the Christian religion
							in no doubtful terms, and whose books were eagerly read and discussed. These "deists"
							maintained that their conception of God was far worthier than that of the Christian
							believer, who, they declared, accused the deity of violating his own laws by miracles
							and of condemning a great part of his children to eternal torment.

						How Voltaire came to England, 1726

						In the year 1726 there landed in England a young and gifted Frenchman, who was to
							become the great prophet of  deism in all lands.
							Voltaire, who was then thirty-two years old, had already deserted the older religious
							beliefs and was consequently ready to follow enthusiastically the more radical of the
							English thinkers, who discussed matters with an openness which filled him with
							astonishment. He became an ardent admirer of the teachings of Newton, whose stately
							funeral he attended shortly after his arrival. He regarded the discoverer of universal
							gravitation as greater than an Alexander or a Caesar, and did all he could to
							popularize Newton's work in France. "It is to him who masters our minds by the force
							of truth, not to those who enslave men by violence; it is to him who understands the
							universe, not to those who disfigure it, that we owe our reverence."

						Voltaire charmed by the English freedom of speech

						Voltaire was deeply impressed by the Quakers,-- their simple life and their hatred of
							war. He was delighted with the English philosophers, especially with John Locke1 (died in 1704); he thought
							Pope's "An Essay on Man" the finest moral poem ever composed; he admired the English
							liberty of speech and writing; he respected the general esteem for the merchant class.
							In France, he said, "the merchant so constantly hears his business spoken of with
							disdain that he is fool enough to blush for it; yet I am not sure that the merchant
							who enriches his country, gives orders from his countinghouse at Surat or Cairo, and
							contributes to the happiness of the globe is not more useful to a state than the
							thickly bepowdered lord who knows exactly what 1 Locke rejected the notion that man was born
								with certain divinely implanted ideas, and maintained that we owe all that we know
								to the sensations and impressions which come to us from without. Locke was a man of
								extraordinary modesty, good sense, and caution, and he and his gifted successor,
								Bishop Berkeley, did much to found modern psychology by helping to rid the world of
								certain meaningless abstractions and encouraging the careful study of our own mental
								processes to which so much attention is now being given. Berkeley's New
									Theory of Vision is a clear account of the gradual way in which we learn to
								see. He shows that a blind man, if suddenly restored to sight, would make little or
								nothing of the confused colors and shapes which would first strike his eye. He would
								learn only from prolonged experience that one set of colors and contours meant a man
								and another a horse or a table, no matter how readily he might recognize the several
								objects by touch.
							 time the king rises and what time he goes to bed, and
							gives himself mighty airs of greatness while he plays the part of a slave in the
							minister's anteroom."

						Voltaire's Letter on the English
						Voltaire's wide influence and popularity

						Voltaire proceeded to enlighten his countrymen by a volume of essays in which he set
							forth his impressions of England; but the high court of justice (the parlement) of Paris condemned these Letters on the English
							to be publicly burned, as scandalous and contrary alike to good manners and to the
							respect due to the principalities and powers. In this way they furnished one more
							illustration of the need of such men as Voltaire, who was to become, during the
							remainder of a long life, the chief advocate throughout Europe of unremitting reliance
							upon reason and of confidence in enlightenment and progress. And since a great part of
							the institutions of his day were not based upon reason but upon mere tradition, and
							were often quite opposed to common sense, "the touch of reason was fatal to the whole
							structure, which instantly began to crumble." His keen eye was continually discovering
							some new absurdity in the existing order, which, with incomparable wit and literary
							skill, he would expose to his eager readers. He was interested in almost everything;
							he wrote histories, dramas, philosophic treatises, romances, epics, and innumerable
							letters to his innumerable admirers. The vast range of his writings enabled him to
							bring his bold questionings to the attention of all sorts and conditions of men,-- not
							only to the general reader, but even to the careless playgoer.1

						Voltaire's attack upon the church

						While Voltaire was successfully inculcating free criticism in general, he led a
							relentless attack upon the most venerable, probably the most powerful, institution in
							Europe, the Roman Catholic Church. The absolute power of the king did not trouble him,
							but the Church, with what appeared to him to be its deep-seated opposition to a free
							exercise of reason and its hostility to reform, seemed fatally to block all human
							progress. He was wont to close his letters with the exhortation, "Crush the infamous
							thing." The Church, as it fully realized, had never encountered 1 For extracts from
									Voltaire's writings, see Readings, Vol. I, pp. 179
								ff.
							 a more deadly enemy. Not only was Voltaire supremely
							skillful in his varied methods of attack, but there were thousands of both the
							thoughtful and the thoughtless ready to applaud him; for not only was he always
							brilliant and entertaining in his diatribes, but many of his readers had reached the
							same conclusions, although they might not be able to express their thoughts so
							persuasively as he.1

						Voltaire maintains that the Church should not encroach upon the
							functions of the State

						Voltaire was not only irritated by what he regarded as the gloomy superstition of the
							Church, its cruel intolerance, and the hateful conflicts over seemingly unimportant
							matters of belief, but he held that it exercised a pernicious control over the
							government. In his famous Handy Philosophic Dictionary, a little
							volume of witty essays on a variety of themes which he published anonymously in 1764,
							he maintains that no law of the Church should have the least force unless expressly
							sanctioned by the government; that all ecclesiastics should be subject to the
							government, should pay taxes like every one else, and should have no power to deprive
							a citizen of the least of his rights on the ground that he is a sinner, "since the
							priest-- himself a sinner-- should pray for other sinners, not judge them." Marriage
							should be entirely under the control of the civil government, and the shameful custom,
							as he calls it, of paying a part of the clergy's revenue to a "foreign priest," namely
							the Pope, should no longer be maintained. But the parlement of Paris
							condemned the book to be burned, on the ground that it defended license and
							incredulity; that it attacked all that was sacred in religious teachings, mysteries,
							and authority; and that the writer gloried in sinking to the level of the brutes and
							dragging others down into his own degradation.

						Weaknesses of Voltaire

						Were there space at command, a great many good things, as well as plenty of bad ones,
							might be told of this extraordinary 1 Voltaire repudiated the beliefs of the Protestant churches as
								well as of the Roman Church. He was, however, no atheist, as his enemies-- and they
								have been many and bitter -have so often asserted. He believed in God, and at his
								country home, near Geneva, he dedicated a temple to him. Like many of his con-
								temporaries, he was a deist, and held that God had revealed himself in nature and in
								our own hearts, not in Bible or Church.
							 man. He was often superficial in his judgments, and
							sometimes jumped to unwarranted conclusions. He saw only evil in the Church and seemed
							incapable of understanding all that it had done for mankind during the bygone ages. He
							maliciously attributed to evil motives teachings which were accepted by the best and
							loftiest of men. He bitterly ridiculed even the holiest and purest aspirations, along
							with the alleged deceptions of the Jesuits and the quarrels of the theologians.

						Real greatness of Voltaire

						He could, and did, however, fight bravely against wrong and oppression. The abuses
							which he attacked were in large part abolished by the Revolution. It is unfair to
							notice only Voltaire's mistakes and exaggerations, as many writers, both Catholic and
							Protestant, have done; for he certainly did more than any one else to prepare the way
							for the great and permanent reform of the Church, as a political and social
							institution, in 1789-1790. "When the right sense of historical proportion is more
							fully developed in men's minds," John Morley writes, "the name of Voltaire will stand
							out like the names of the great decisive movements in the European advance, like the
							Revival of Learning or the Reformation. The existence, character, and career of this
							extraordinary person constituted in themselves a new and prodigious era."

						Diderot's Encyclopædia

						Voltaire had many admirers and powerful allies. Among these none were more important
							than Denis Diderot and the scholars whom Diderot induced to cooperate with him in
							preparing articles for a new Encyclopædia, which was designed to
							spread among a wide range of intelligent readers a knowledge of scientific advance and
							rouse enthusiasm for reform and progress.1 An encyclopædia was by no means a new thing. Diderot's
							plan had been suggested by a proposal to publish a French translation of Chambers's
								Cyclopædia. Before his first volume appeared, a vast Universal Dictionary
							1 See Readings, Vol. I, p. 185, for an extract from Diderot's preface to the last
								installment of the Encyclopædia.
							 had been completed in Germany in sixty-four volumes. But
							few people outside of that country could read German in those days, whereas the
							well-written and popular articles of Diderot and his helpers, ranging from "abacus,"
							"abbey," and "abdication" to "Zoroaster," "Zurich," and "zimology," were in a language
							that many people all over Europe could understand.

						The Encyclopædia rouses the hostility of the
							theologians

						Diderot and his fellow-editors endeavored to rouse as little opposition as possible.
							They respected current prejudices and gave space to ideas and opinions with which they
							were not personally in sympathy. They furnished material, however, for refuting what
							they believed to be mistaken notions, and Diderot declared that "time will enable
							people to distinguish what we have thought from what we have said." But no sooner did
							the first two volumes appear in 1752 than the king's ministers, to please the Church,
							suppressed them, as containing principles hostile to royal authority and religion,
							although they did not forbid the continuation of the work. The attitude of the clergy
							led Diderot to exclaim angrily: "I know nothing so indecent as these vague
							declamations of the theologians against reason. To hear them, one would suppose that
							men could only enter into the bosom of Christianity as a herd of cattle enters a
							stable; and that we must renounce our common sense if we are either to embrace our
							religion or to remain in it."

						Diderot nevertheless completes the Encyclopædia

						As volume after volume appeared, the subscribers increased; but so did the
							opposition. The Encyclopædists were declared to be a band bent upon the destruction of
							religion and the undermining of society; the government again interfered, withdrew the
							license to publish the work, and prohibited the sale of the seven volumes that were
							already out. Nevertheless seven years later Diderot was able to deliver the remaining
							ten volumes to the subscribers in spite of the government's prohibition.

						Value of the Encyclopædia

						The Encyclopcædia attacked temperately, but effectively, religious
							intolerance, the bad taxes, the slave trade, and the atrocities of the criminal law;
							it encouraged men to turn their  minds to natural science
							with all its beneficent possibilities, and this helped to discourage the old interest
							in theology and barren metaphysics. The article, "Legislator," written by Diderot,
							says: "All the men of all lands have become necessary to one another for the exchange
							of the fruits of industry and the products of the soil. Commerce is a new bond among
							men. In these days every nation has an interest in the preservation by every other
							nation of its wealth, its industry, its banks, its luxury, its agriculture. The ruin
							of Leipzig, of Lisbon, of Lima, has led to bankruptcies on all the exchanges of Europe
							and has affected the fortunes of many millions of persons." The English statesman,
							John Morley, is doubtless right when he says, in his enthusiastic account of Diderot
							and his companions, that "it was this band of writers, organized by a harassed man of
							letters, and not the nobles swarming around Louis XV, nor the churchmen singing
							masses, who first grasped the great principle of modern society, the honour that is
							owed to productive industry. They were vehement for the glories of peace and
							passionate against the brazen glories of war."

						Montesquieu (1689-1755) and his  Spirit of
							Laws

						Neither Voltaire nor Diderot had attacked the kings and their despotic system of
							government. Montesquieu, however, while expressing great loyalty to French
							institutions, opened the eyes of his fellow-citizens to the disadvantages and abuses
							of their government by his enthusiastic eulogy of the limited monarchy of England. In
							his celebrated work, The Spirit of Laws, or the Relation which Laws
								should bear to the Constitution of Each Country, its Customs, Climate, Religion,
								Commerce, etc., he proves from history that governments are not arbitrary
							arrangements, but that they are the natural products of special conditions and should
							meet the needs of a particular people at a particular period. England, he thought, had
							developed an especially happy system.

						Rousseau (1712-1778) attacks civilization

						Next to Voltaire, the writer who did most to cultivate discontent with existing
							conditions was Jean Jacques Rousseau1
							1 Extracts from his
								writings are to be found in the Readings, Vol. I, pp. 187
								ff.
							 (1712-1778). Unlike Voltaire and Diderot, Rousseau
							believed that people thought too much, not too little; that we should trust to our
							hearts rather than to our heads, and may safely rely upon our natural feelings and
							sentiments to guide us. He declared that Europe was overcivilized, and summoned men to
							return to nature and simplicity. His first work was a prize essay written in 1750, in
							which he sought to prove that the development of the arts and sciences had demoralized
							mankind, inasmuch as they had produced luxury, insincerity, and arrogance. He extolled
							the rude vigor of Sparta and denounced the refined and degenerate life of the
							Athenians.

						Rousseau's Émile deals with education

						Later Rousseau wrote a book on education, called Émile, which is
							still famous. In this he protests against the efforts made by teachers to improve upon
							nature, for, he maintains, "All things are good as their Author made them, but
							everything degenerates in the hands of man. 
							To form this rare creature, man, what have we to do ? Much doubtless, but chiefly to
							prevent anything from being done.  All our
							wisdom consists in servile prejudices; all our customs are but anxiety and restraint.
							Civilized man is born, lives, dies in a state of slavery. At his birth he is sewed in
							swaddling clothes; at his death he is nailed in a coffin; as long as he preserves the
							human form he is fettered by our institutions."

						The Social Contract
						Popular sovereignty

						Rousseau's plea for the simple life went to the heart of many a person who was weary
							of complications and artificiality. Others were attracted by his firm belief in the
							natural equality of mankind and the right of every man to have a voice in the
							government. In his celebrated little treatise, The Social Contract,
							he takes up the question, By what right does one man rule over others? The book opens
							with the words: "Man is born free and yet is now everywhere in chains. One man
							believes himself the master of others and yet is after all more of a slave than they.
							How did this change come about? I do not know. What can render it legitimate? I
							believe that I can answer that question." It is, Rousseau declares, the will of the
							people that  renders government legitimate. The real
							sovereign is the people. Although they may appoint a single person, such as a king, to
							manage the government for them, they should make the laws, since it is they who must
							obey them. We shall find that the first French constitution accepted Rousseau's
							doctrine and defined law as "the expression of the general will,"-- not the will of a
							king reigning by the grace of God.

						Beccaria (1738-1794) and his book on Crimes and
								Punishments
						Unfairness of criminal trials
						Cruelty of the punishments

						Among all the books advocating urgent reforms which appeared in the eighteenth
							century none accomplished more than a little volume by the Italian economist and
							jurist, Beccaria, which exposed with great clearness and vigor the atrocities of the
							criminal law. The trials (even in England) were scandalously unfair and the
							punishments incredibly cruel. The accused was not ordinarily allowed any counsel and
							was required to give evidence against himself. Indeed, it was common enough to use
							torture to force a confession from him. Witnesses were examined secretly and
							separately and their evidence recorded before they faced the accused. Informers were
							rewarded, and the flimsiest evidence was considered sufficient in the case of
							atrocious crimes. After a criminal had been convicted he might be tortured by the
							rack, thumbscrews, applying fire to different parts of his body, or in other ways, to
							induce him to reveal the names of his accomplices. The death penalty was established
							for a great variety of offenses besides murder,-- for example, heresy, counterfeiting,
							highway robbery, even sacrilege. In England there were, according to the great jurist
							Blackstone, a hundred and sixty offenses punishable with death, including cutting down
							trees in an orchard, and stealing a sum over five shillings in a shop, or more than
							twelve pence from a person's pocket. Yet in spite of the long list of capital
							offenses, the trials in England were far more reasonable than on the Continent, for
							they were public and conducted before a jury, and torture was not used.

						Beccaria advocates public trials and milder but certain
							punishments

						Beccaria advocated public trials in which the accused should be confronted by those
							who gave evidence against him. Secret accusations should no longer be considered. Like
							Voltaire,  Montesquieu, and many others, he denounced the
							practice of torturing a suspected person with a view of compelling him by bodily
							anguish to confess himself guilty of crimes of which he might be quite innocent. As
							for punishments, he advocated the entire abolition of the death penalty, on the ground
							that it did not deter the evil doer as life imprisonment at hard labor would, and that
							in its various hideous forms-- beheading, hanging, mutilation, breaking on the wheel--
							it was a source of demoralization to the spectators. Punishments should be less harsh
							but more certain and more carefully proportioned to the danger of the offense to
							society. Nobles and magistrates convicted of crime should be treated exactly like
							offenders of the lowest class. Confiscation of property should be abolished, since it
							brought suffering to the innocent members of the criminal's family. It was better, he
							urged, to prevent crimes than to punish them, and this could be done by making the
							laws very clear and the punishments for their violation very certain, but, above all,
							by spreading enlightenment through better education.

						The science of political economy develops in the eighteenth
							century

						About the middle of the eighteenth century a new social science was born, namely,
							political economy. Scholars began to investigate the sources of a nation's wealth, the
							manner in which commodities were produced and distributed, the laws determining demand
							and supply, the function of money and credit, and their influence upon industry and
							commerce. Previous to the eighteenth century these matters had seemed unworthy of
							scientific discussion. Few suspected that there were any great laws underlying the
							varying amount of wheat that could be bought for a shilling, or the rate of interest
							that a bank could charge. The ancient philosophers of Greece and Rome had despised the
							tiller of the soil, the shopkeeper, and the artisan, for these indispensable members
							of society at that period were commonly slaves. The contempt for manual labor had
							decreased in the Middle Ages, but the learned men who studied theology, or pondered
							over Aristotle's teachings in regard to "form" and "essence," never thought of
							considering the effect  of the growth of population upon
							serfdom, or of an export duty upon commerce, any more than they tried to determine why
							the housewife's milk soured more readily in warm weather than in cold, or why a field
							left fallow regained its fertility.1

						Tendency ofthe governments to regulate commerce and industry

						Although ignorant of economic laws, the governments had come gradually to regulate
							more and more both commerce and industry. We have seen how each country tried to keep
							all the trade for its own merchants by issuing elaborate regulations and restrictions,
							and how the king's officers enforced the monopoly of the guilds. Indeed, the French
							government, under Colbert's influence, fell into the habit of regulating well-nigh
							everything. In order that the goods which were produced in France might find a ready
							sale abroad, the government fixed the quality and width of the cloth which might be
							manufactured and the character of the dyes which should be used. The king's ministers
							kept a constant eye upon the dealers in grain and bread-stuffs, forbidding the storing
							up of these products or their sale outside a market. In this way they had hoped to
							prevent speculators from accumulating grain in order to sell it at a high rate in
							times of scarcity.

						Doctrines of the "mercantilists"

						In short, at the opening of the eighteenth century statesmen, merchants, and such
							scholars as gave any attention to the subject believed that the wealth of a country
							could be greatly increased by government regulation and encouragement, just as in the
							United States to-day it is held by the majority of citizens that the government can
							increase prosperity and improve the conditions of the wage-earners by imposing high
							duties upon imported articles. It was also commonly believed that a country, to be
							really prosperous, must export more than it imported, so that foreign nations would
							each year owe it a cash balance, which would have to be paid in gold or silver and in
							this way 1 The medieval
								philosophers and theologians discussed, it is true, the question whether it was
								right or not to charge interest for money loaned, and what might be a "just price."
								But both matters were considered as ethical or theological problems rather than in
								their economic aspects. See Ashley, English Economic History, Vol.
								I, chap. iii; Vol. II, chap. vi.
							 increase its stock of precious metals. Those who
							advocated using the powers of government to encourage and protect shipping, to develop
							colonies, and to regulate manufactures are known as "mercantilists."

						Origin of the "free-trade" school of economists

						About the year 1700, however, certain writers in France and England reached the
							conclusion that the government did no good by interfering with natural economic laws
							which it did not understand and whose workings it did not reckon with. They argued
							that the government restrictions often produced the worst possible results; that
							industry would advance far more rapidly if manufacturers were free to adopt new
							inventions instead of being confined by the government's restrictions to old and
							discredited methods; that, in France, the government's frantic efforts to prevent
							famines by making all sorts of rules in regard to selling grain only increased the
							distress, since even the most powerful king could not violate with impunity an
							economic law. So the new economists rejected the formerly popular mercantile policy.
							They accused the mercantilists of identifying gold and silver with wealth, and
							maintained that a country might be prosperous without a favorable cash balance. In
							short, the new school advocated "free trade." A French economist urged his king to
							adopt the motto, Laissez faire (Let things alone), if he would see
							his realms prosper.

						Doctrines of Turgot

						The leading economist of France in the eighteenth century was Turgot, who, as head of
							the government for a brief period, made, as we shall see, an unsuccessful effort to
							remedy the existing abuses.1 He
							argued that it would be quite sufficient if "the government should always protect the
							natural liberty of the buyer to buy and of the seller to sell. For the buyer being
							always the master to buy or not to buy, it is certain that he will select among the
							sellers the man who will give him at the best bargain the goods that suit him best. It
							is not less certain that every seller, it being his chief interest to merit preference
							over his competitors, will sell in general the best goods and at the 1 See
									below, p. 218.
							 lowest price at which he can make a profit in order to
							attract customers. The merchant or manufacturer who cheats will be quickly discredited
							and lose his custom without the interference of government."

						Adam Smith's Wealth of Nations (1776)

						The first great systematic work upon political economy was published by a Scotch
							philosopher, Adam Smith, in 1776. His Inquiry into the Nature and Causes
								of the Wealth of Nations became the basis of all further progress in the
							science. He attacked the doctrines of the mercantilists and the various expedients
							which they had favored,-- import duties, bounties, restrictions upon exporting grain,
							etc.,-- all of which he believed "retard instead of accelerating the progress of
							society toward real wealth and greatness; and diminish instead of increasing the real
							value of the annual produce of its labor and land." In general he agreed with Turgot
							that the State should content itself with protecting traders and business men and
							seeing that justice was done; but he sympathized with the English navigation laws,
							although they obviously hampered commerce, and was not as thoroughgoing a free trader
							as many of the later English economists.

						The economists attack existing abuses

						While the economists in France and England by no means agreed in details, they were
							at one in believing that it was useless and harmful to interfere with what they held
							to be the economic laws. They brought the light of reason to bear, for example, upon
							the various bungling and iniquitous old methods of taxation then in vogue, and many of
							them advocated a single tax which should fall directly upon the landowner. They wrote
							treatises on practical questions, scattered pamphlets broadcast, and even conducted a
							magazine or two in the hope of bringing home to the people at large the existing
							economic evils.

						The eighteenth century a period of rapidly increasing
							enlightenment

						It is clear from what has been said that the eighteenth century was a period of
							unexampled advance in general enlightenment. New knowledge spread abroad by the
							Encyclopaedists, the economists, and writers on government-- Turgot, Adam Smith,
							Montesquieu, Rousseau, Beccaria, and many others of 
							lesser fame-- led people to see the vices of the existing system and gave them at the
							same time new hope of bettering themselves by abandoning the mistaken beliefs and
							imperfect methods of their predecessors. The spirit of reform penetrated even into
							kings' palaces, and we must now turn to the actual attempts to better affairs made by
							the more enlightened rulers of Europe.
					

					
						REFORMS OF FREDERICK II,
								CATHARINE II, AND JOSEPH II

						The "enlightened despots"

						8. It happened in the eighteenth century that there were several
							remarkably intelligent monarchs,-- Frederick II of Prussia, Catharine the Great of
							Russia, Emperor Joseph II, and Charles III of Spain. These rulers read the works of
							the reformers, and planned all sorts of ways in which they might better the conditions
							in their realms by removing old restrictions which hampered the farmer and merchant,
							by making new and clearer laws, by depriving the clergy of wealth and power which
							seemed to them excessive, and by encouraging manufactures and promoting commerce.

						These monarchs are commonly known as the "enlightened" or "benevolent" despots. They
							were no doubt more "enlightened" than the older kings; at least they all read books
							and associated with learned men. But they were not more "benevolent" than Charlemagne,
							or Canute, or St. Louis, or Henry IV, all of whom, as well as many other European
							monarchs of earlier centuries, had believed it their duty to do all they could for the
							welfare of their people. On the other hand, the monarchs of the eighteenth century
							were certainly despots in the full sense of the word. They held that all the powers of
							the State were vested in them, and had no idea of permitting their subjects any share
							in the government. Moreover they were as much interested in fighting one another as
							their predecessors had been, and were constantly trying to add to their own
							territories by robbing their neighbors, as we shall see in a later chapter.

						

						Frederick the Great of Prussia (1740-1786)

						One of the most striking and practical of the reforming rulers was Frederick the
							Great of Prussia. As a youth he had grieved and disgusted his father by his fondness
							for books and his passion for writing verses and playing the flute. A French tutor had
							instilled in him a love for the polished language of France and an enthusiasm for her
							literature and for her philosophers who were busy attacking the traditional religious
							ideas to which Frederick's father stoutly clung. When eighteen years old Frederick had
							tried to run away in order to escape the harsh military discipline to which he was
							subjected. He was captured and brought before the king, who was in such a rage that he
							seemed upon the point of killing his renegade son with his sword. He contented
							himself, however, with imprisoning Frederick in the citadel of Küstrin, with no books
							except a Bible, and forced him to witness the execution of one of his companions, who
							had aided his flight.

						After this Frederick consented to give some contemptuous attention to public affairs.
							He inspected the royal domains near Küstrin and began, for the first time, to study
							the peasants, their farms, and their cattle. He even agreed to marry a princess whom
							his father had selected for him, and settled down to a scholarly life, studying
							literature, philosophy, history, and mathematics, and carrying on a correspondence
							with learned men of all nations, especially with Voltaire,1 whom he greatly admired. He was very fond
							indeed of writing and seized every spare moment of a busy life to push forward his
							works upon history, politics, and military matters. No less than twenty-four volumes
							of his writings, all in French, were published shortly after his death, and these did
							not include everything that he had managed to write.2

						He said that the ruler owed the State an account of the uses to which he put the
							taxes raised for its support and defense. He allowed the people no part in the
							government, it is true, 1
								See above, pp. 27 ff.
							2 For Frederick's
								description of a king's duties, see Readings, Vol. I, p.
								202.
							 but he worked very hard himself. He rose early and was
							busy all day. He was his own prime minister and the real head of all branches of the
							government, watching over the army and leading it in battle, attending to foreign
							affairs, guarding the finances, overseeing the courts, journeying up and down the land
							investigating the conduct of his officials and examining into the condition of his
							people.

						Religious toleration in Prussia

						In religious matters Frederick was extremely tolerant; he held that his subjects
							should be allowed to worship God freely in any way they pleased. His kingdom had long
							been Protestant, but there were many Catholics in parts of his scattered dominions. He
							welcomed Huguenots and Jesuits with equal cordiality and admitted Catholics as well as
							Protestants to his service. "I stand neutral between Rome and Geneva," he once said;
							"he who wrongs his brother of a different faith shall be punished; were I to declare
							for one or the other creed I should excite party spirit and persecution; my aim, on
							the contrary, is to show the adherents of the different churches that they are all
								fellow-citizens."1

						Catharine II empress of Russia 11762-1796)

						The most interesting of all the "benevolent despots" was Catharine of Russia. Since
							she was to play a conspicuous rô1e in all the affairs of Europe for thirty-five years,
							a word must be said of the manner in which this German woman became the ruler of all
							the Russias. She was the daughter of one of Frederick the Great's officers and had
							been selected by him in 1743, at the request of the Tsarina Elizabeth, as a suitable
							wife for Peter, the heir to the throne. At the age of fourteen this inexperienced girl
							found herself in the midst of the intrigues of the court at St. Petersburg; she joined
							the Greek Church, exchanged her name of Sophia for that of Catharine, and, by zealous
							study of both books and men, prepared to make her 1 Frederick agreed with Voltaire in his
								contempt for theological disputes. A clergyman of Valangin was expelled from his
								pulpit by his congregation because he questioned eternal punishment; when he
								petitioned Frederick to reinstate him, the king replied, "If my loving subjects of
								Valangin choose to be eternally damned, it is not for me to interfere."
							 new name famous. Her husband proved to be a worthless
							fellow, who early began to neglect and maltreat her. Catharine won over the imperial
							guard and had herself proclaimed empress. Peter was forced to abdicate and was carried
							off by some of Catharine's supporters, who put him to death, probably with her tacit
							consent.

						Catharine's character

						In the spirit of Peter the Great, Catharine determined to carry on the Europeanizing
							of Russia and extend her empire.1 She was thoroughly unscrupulous and hypocritical, but she was shrewd in the
							choice and management of her ministers and was herself a hard worker. She rose at six
							o'clock in the morning, hurried through her toilet, prepared her own light breakfast,
							and turned to the exacting and dull business of government, carefully considering the
							reports laid before her relating to the army, the navy, finances, and foreign
							affairs.

						Catherine II of Russia

						Catharine II showed herself almost as interested in the philosophers and reformers as
							did Frederick.2 She invited
							Diderot to spend a month with her and was disappointed that d'Alembert would not
							consent to become the tutor of the grand duke Paul, the heir to the throne. She
							subscribed for the Encyclopædia, and bought Diderot's library when
							he got into trouble, permitting him to continue to use the books as long as he wished.
							In her frequent letters to Voltaire she explained to him her various plans for
							reform.

						Catharine maintains serfdom but secularizes the Church lands

						There was some talk of abolishing serfdom in Russia, but Catharine rather increased
							than decreased the number of serfs, and she made their lot harder than it had been
							before by forbidding them to complain of the treatment they received at the hands of
							their masters. She appropriated the vast property of the churches and monasteries,
							using the revenue to support the clergy and monks, and such surplus as remained she
							devoted to schools and hospitals.

						Rash reforms of Joseph II of Austria (emperor, 1765-1790)

						It is clear that while Frederick and Catharine expressed great admiration for the
							reformers, they did not attempt to 1 See below, pp. 53
								ff.
							2 For an account of
								Catharine by a contemporary, see Readings, Vol. I, p. 210.
							 make any sweeping changes in the laws or the social
							order. Emperor Joseph II, who, after the death of his mother, Maria Theresa, in 1780,
							became ruler of the Austrian dominions, had, however, the courage of his
								convictions.1 He proposed to
							transform the scattered and heterogeneous territories over which he ruled into a
							well-organized state in which disorder, confusion, prejudice, fanaticism, and
							intellectual bondage should disappear and all his subjects be put in possession of
							their natural rights. Germans, Hungarians, Italians, Poles, Bohemians, and Belgians
							were all to use the German language in official communications. The old irregular
							territorial divisions were abolished and his realms divided up into thirteen new
							provinces. All the ancient privileges enjoyed by the towns and the local assemblies
							were done away with and replaced by a uniform system of government in which his own
							officials enjoyed the control.

						Joseph II reforms the Church

						Joseph visited France and was personally acquainted with Rousseau and Turgot. He was
							heartily opposed to the monks. "The principles of monasticism," he declared, "are in
							flat contradiction to human reason; monks are the most useless and dangerous subjects
							that a country can possess." He particularly objected to those orders whose members
							devoted themselves to religious contemplation, which he regarded as worse than a waste
							of time; he consequently abolished some six hundred of their monasteries and used
							their property for charitable purposes and to establish schools. He appointed the
							bishops without consulting the Pope and forbade money to be sent to Rome. Marriage was
							declared to be merely a civil contract and so was taken out of the control of the
							priests. Lutherans, Calvinists, and other heretics were allowed to worship in their
							own way.

						Joseph attacks the survivals of feudalism and encourages
							manufactures

						Joseph II sought to complete his work by attacking the surviving features of
							feudalism and encouraging the development of manufactures. He freed the serfs in
							Bohemia, Moravia, Galicia, and Hungary, transforming the peasants into 1 For Joseph's statement of
								his views, see Readings, Vol. I, p. 213.
							 tenants; elsewhere he reduced the services due from them
							to the lord. He taxed nobles and clergy without regard to their claims to exemption,
							and supplanted the confused and uncertain laws by a uniform system which is the basis
							of Austrian law to-day. He introduced a protective tariff and caused a large number of
							factories to be built. He illustrated his preference for home industries by giving
							away to the hospitals all the foreign wines in his cellars, and his spirit of economy,
							by forbidding the use of gold and silver for candlesticks, and prohibiting the burial
							of the dead in coffins for the reason that this was a waste of wood which might be
							better employed.

						Opposition to Joseph's reforms
						Revolt of the Austrian Netherlands (1790)

						Naturally Joseph met opposition on every hand. The clergy abhorred him as an
							oppressor, and all who were forced to sacrifice their old privileges did what they
							could to frustrate his reforms, however salutary they might be. The Netherlands, which
							he proposed to transform into an Austrian province, finally followed the example of
							the American colonies and declared themselves independent in i79o. The same year
							Joseph died, a sadly disappointed man, having been forced to undo almost all that he
							had hoped to accomplish.

						Summary of the activities of the benevolent despots

						It has become clear, as we have reviewed the activities of these benevolent despots,
							that all of them were chiefly intent upon increasing their own power; they were more
							despotic than they were benevolent. They opposed the interference of the Pope and
							brought the clergy under their own control. In some cases they took a portion of the
							property of the churches and monasteries. They tried to improve the laws and do away
							with the existing contradictions and obscurities. They endeavored to "centralize" the
							administration and to place all the power in the hands of their own officials instead
							of leaving it with the nobles or the old local assemblies. They encouraged
							agriculture, commerce, and industries in various ways. All these measures were
							undertaken primarily with a view to strengthening the autocratic power of the ruler
							and augmenting  the revenue and the military strength of
							his government, for none of these energetic monarchs showed any willingness to admit
							the people to a share in the government, and only Joseph II ventured to attempt to
							free the serfs.
					

					
						PECULIARITIES OF THE ENGLISH
								GOVERNMENT IN THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY1

						The overthrow of absolutism in England

						9. The government of England in the eighteenth century differed in
							many respects from that which prevailed across the channel. This difference is to be
							ascribed largely to the development of a parliament representing the nobility, the
							clergy, the landed gentry of the counties, and the burgesses of the towns. As we have
							seen in the first volume, the attempts of the Stuart monarchs to set up an absolute
							system of government in the early part of the seventeenth century led to resistance in
							Parliament, and then to a Revolution in which Charles I lost his head. It is true that
							the Stuart line, represented by Charles II, was restored to the throne in i660; but
							the English 1
								English monarchs from James I to George III.
								
									James I (1603-1625)
									Charles I (1625-1649)Elizabeth, m. Frederick V,
											Elector of the Palatinate (Winter King of Bohemia)
									Charles II 1660-1685)(1) Anne Hyde, m. James II, m. (2) Mary of ModenaSophia, m. Ernest Augustus,Elector of Hanover

									William III (1689-1702), m. Mary (1689-1694)Anne
											(1702-1714)
									George I 1714-1727)
									George II (1727-1760)
									James (the Old Pretender)
									Frederick, Prince of Wales (d. 1751)
									Charles Edward the Young Pretender)
									George III (1760-1820)
								
							
							 made perfectly clear their determination not to tolerate
							despotic conduct on the part of their kings by expelling from the country, in i688,
							James II, and calling to the throne William and Mary.

						English constitutional principles

						To make doubly sure of their safeguards against arbitrary power, Parliament required
							William and Mary to agree to certain principles of government, practically as a
							condition to their receiving the crown. These principles were embodied in the Bill of
							Rights (December, 1689), which forbade the king to suspend or dispense with the laws
							of the realm, lay taxes without parliamentary grant, keep a standing army without the
							consent of Parliament, interfere with freedom of speech and debate in Parliament,
							impose excessive fines or cruel and unusual punishments, or prevent the subjects of
							the realm from respectfully petitioning the throne. By this great act "the fundamental
							rights of British subjects" were firmly established in the law and placed beyond the
							arbitrary power of kings.

						Frederick the Great and Louis XV, however, could fix the amount of the taxes and
							decide who should pay them without asking the consent, or even the advice, of any of
							their subjects. They could borrow all the money that the bankers would lend them and
							spend it as they pleased, without giving any account of it. The English king, on the
							contrary, could impose no taxes and borrow no money on the national credit without the
							sanction of Parliament; and a definite sum was assigned to him as an allowance with
							which to keep up his royal establishment, defray his personal expenses, and pay the
							salaries of important government officials.

						Parliament controls lawmaking

						The benevolent despots, as we have seen, made any change they wished in the laws by a
							simple edict. In England the king could neither issue a new law nor suspend an old one
							without the consent of Parliament. Even the right which he had formerly enjoyed to
							veto the bills passed by Parliament fell into disuse and was exercised for the last
							time by Queen Anne in 1707.

						

						The king of England did not control the courts of law

						On the Continent the monarch could remove judges who made decisions which did not
							please him. In England, since 1701, the judges have held their positions during good
							behavior, unless removed on request of both houses of Parliament. The English king
							could not arbitrarily arrest his subjects or call before his own council, to be
							decided by himself personally, cases which were being tried in the regular courts. The
							Habeas Corpus Act of 1679 provided that any one who was arrested should be informed of
							the reason and should be speedily tried by a regular tribunal and dealt with according
							to the law of the land. In France there were none of these restrictions placed upon
							the king, who could arrest his subjects on lettres de cachet,
							imprison them indefinitely without assigning a reason, and could interfere in any suit
							and decide it as he chose.

						Contrast between the English Parliament and similar bodies on the
							Continent

						The English Parliament, which had originated in the thirteenth century, was by no
							means unique in the Middle Ages. For example, we find the ruler of Aragon summoning an
							assembly of nobles, clergy, and "rich men" as early as 1162. In 1255 the
							representatives of the cities appeared in the diet of the Holy Roman Empire along with
							the various princes and prelates. In France, about 1300, the Estates General had come
							to be made up of representatives of the three classes of the realm,-- nobles, clergy,
							and the "third estate," or townspeople.

						The two houses of Parliament

						But all these bodies, and others of the same kind, gradually lost all their
							importance, with the sole exception of the English Parliament. This had from the
							middle of the fourteenth century consisted of two houses. The higher nobility-- dukes,
							marquises, earls, viscounts, and barons-- sat, together with the prelates,-
							archbishops, bishops, and abbots,1-- in the House of Lords. Accordingly the representatives of the nobles and
							the clergy were not separated, as they often were on the Continent. In the second
							chamber, the House of Commons, there were not only representatives of the towns but
							those chosen by 1 The abbots disappeared when Henry VIII dissolved the
									monasteries.
							 the landed proprietors of the counties,-- thus giving
							the lesser landholders a voice in the nation's councils.1

						The House of Commons represented only a small part of the
							nation

						Remarkable as was the English Parliament in the eighteenth century, in its
							organization and its power to control the king, it nevertheless represented only a
							small part of the nation. In the Middle Ages, when the towns were small and the
							country population tolerably evenly scattered, the House of Commons fairly represented
							the property owners throughout England. But as time went on no effort was made to
							readjust the apportionment to meet the changes which gradually took place. Many towns
							dwindled away, some disappeared altogether, and the lords upon whose lands they had
							been situated came to control the choice of those members of the House of Commons who
							represented these so-called "rotten boroughs." On the other hand, great towns like
							Manchester, Birmingham, and Leeds grew up, which had no representatives. As a result
							the great majority of the English people had no more share in the government than the
							subjects of Louis XV. In 1768 there were only one hundred and sixty thousand voters,
							although the whole population of Great Britain amounted to some eight millions; that
							is to say, about one in every ten adult males had a voice in the government. Moreover,
							no poor man could sit in Parliament, since all members were required to hold
							considerable land.2

						Origin of the Tories and Whigs

						Despite the small number who could actually participate in the choice of
							representatives, political questions were hotly discussed among the upper classes, who
							were divided into two well-defined parties, Tories and Whigs. These owed their origin
							to the excitement of the Civil War, when those who supported Charles I were called
							Cavaliers and those who opposed him, Roundheads. During the latter years of Charles
							II, 1 The lower clergy
								was not represented in Parliament as it was in the Estates General. For a time its
								representatives met and voted the taxes that they were to pay, but after 1664 the
								assembly confined itself exclusively to religious matters.
							2 For a fuller
								description of the parliamentary system and its reform, see below, chap. xix.
							 the former party, which upheld the divine right of kings
							and the supremacy of the Anglican Church, received the name of "Tory." Their
							opponents, who advocated the supremacy of Parliament and championed toleration for the
							Dissenters, came to be called Whigs.1

						Whig supremacy in the early eighteenth century
						Robert Walpole, prime minister (1721-1742)

						After the death of Anne many of the Tories favored calling to the throne the son of
							James II (popularly called "the old Pretender"), whereupon the Whigs succeeded in
							discrediting their rivals by denouncing them as Jacobites2 and traitors. They made the new Hanoverian
							king, George I, believe that he owed everything to the Whigs, and for a period of
							nearly fifty years, under George I and George II, they were able to control
							Parliament. George I himself spoke no English, was ignorant of English politics, and
							was much more interested in Hanover than in his new kingdom. He did not attend the
							meetings of his ministers, as his predecessors had done, and turned over the
							management of affairs to the Whig leaders. They found a skillful " boss " and a
							judicious statesman in Sir Robert Walpole, who maintained his own power and that of
							his party by avoiding war and preventing religious dissensions at home. He used the
							king's funds to buy the votes necessary to maintain the Whig majority in the House of
							Commons and to get his measures through that body. He was England's first "prime
							minister."

						Origin of the cabinet

						The existence of two well-defined political parties standing for widely different
							policies forced the king to choose all his ministers from either one or the other. The
							more prominent among his advisers came gradually to form a little group who resigned
							together if Parliament refused to accept the measures they advocated. So the English
							rulers from the time of William III were generally compelled to select their ministers
							from the party which had a majority in Parliament; otherwise their plans would be
							pretty sure to be frustrated. In this way "cabinet 1 Not until after the reform of 1832 did the
								Tories become "Conservatives" and the Whigs assume the name of "Liberals."
							2 This name applied to
								the supporters of James is derived from the Latin form of his name, Jacobus.
							 government" originated, that is, government by a small
							group of the heads of departments (like the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the First
							Lord of the Admiralty, etc.), who belong to the party which has a majority in
							Parliament, or at least in the House of Commons, and who resign together when the
							House votes down any important measure which they propose.

						King George III bribes the commons when necessary

						Nevertheless after Walpole's fall in 1742 cabinet government did not flourish for a
							generation or so, especially under George III, who came to the throne in 1760, for he
							proposed to follow his mother's advice, "George, be king." Indeed, many thoughtful men
							felt that Walpole had been what we should call nowadays a corrupt boss, and
							accordingly they encouraged the king to keep the government in his own hands. During
							the war with the American colonies George III was practically his own prime minister
							and freely resorted to rather high-handed methods.

						Growing demand for reform
						The younger Pitt

						However, the day when the king could rule as he pleased was passed; and there was no
							little discontent with the monopoly which the landed gentry and the rich enjoyed in
							Parliament. There was an increasing number of writers to point out to the people the
							defects in the English system. They urged that every man should have the right to
							participate in the government by casting his vote, and that the constitution should be
							written and so made clear and unmistakable. Political clubs were founded, which
							entered into correspondence with political societies in France; newspapers and
							pamphlets poured from the press in enormous quantities, and political reform found
							champions in the House of Commons. Even so influential a politician as the younger
							Pitt, who was prime minister from 1783 to 1801, introduced bills into the House of
							Commons for remedying some inequalities in representation. But the violence and
							disorder which accompanied the French Revolution involved England in a long and
							tedious war and discredited reform with Englishmen who had formerly favored change, to
							say nothing of the Tories, who regarded with horror any proposal to modify the
							venerated English constitution.

						

						England had already the elements of a modern free government, but the
							political system was not democratic

						It is clear that England possessed the elements of a modern free government, for her
							king was master neither of the persons nor the purses of his subjects, nor could he
							issue arbitrary laws. Political affairs were discussed in newspapers and petitions, so
							that weighty matters of government could not be decided secretly in the king's closet
							without the knowledge of his subjects. Nevertheless it would be far from correct to
							regard the English system as democratic. The mass of the people had no political
							rights whatever; an hereditary House of Lords could block any measure introduced in
							the House of Commons; and the House of Commons itself represented not the nation but a
							small minority of landowners and traders. Government offices were monopolized by
							members of the Established Church, and the poor were oppressed by cruel criminal laws
							administered by officials chosen by the king. Workingmen were prohibited from forming
							associations to promote their interests. It was more than a century after the
							accession of George III before the English peasant could go to the ballot box and vote
							for members of Parliament.
					

					

						REFERENCES

						Voltaire: LOWELL, The
										Eve of the French Revolution, pp. 51-69; MORLEY, Voltaire.
								Montesquieu: LOWELL, pp. 126-153; SOREL, Montesquieu (in the Great French Writers
									Series).
								Rousseau: LOWELL, pp. 274-321 ; MORLEY, Rousseau.
								The Encyclopædia: PERKINS, France under Louis XV, Vol. II, pp. 437-446; LOWELL,
									pp. 243-260; MORLEY, Diderot and the
										Encyclopædists, Vol. I.
								Criminal Law in France: LOWELL, pp.
									107-118.
								Criminal Law in England: LECKY, History of England in the Eighteenth Century, Vol. II, chap. iv,
									pp. 126-138; Vol. II, chap. xxi, pp. 315-347.
								The French Economists: PERKINS, Vol. II,
									pp. 424-437; SAY, Turgot (in the Great French
									Writers Series).
								Adam Smith: HIRST, Adam
									Smith (in the English Men of Letters Series).
								
								Frederick the Great: HENDERSON, A Short History of Germany, Vol. II, chap. v, pp. 182-218
								Reforms of Catharine the Great: RAMBAUD,
									History of Russia, Vol. II, chap. x, pp. 203-220.
								Joseph II and Austria: FYFFE, History of Modern Europe, pp. 15-20; HASSALL,
										Balance of Power (European History, 1715-1789), pp.
									357-366.
								Charles III of Spain: HASSALL, pp.
									287-289.
								Dissolution of the Jesuit Order: HASSALL,
									pp. 294-301; PERKINS, France under Louis XV,
									Vol. II, pp. 206-225.
								Walpole and the Cabinet System: MORLEY,
										Walpole (English Statesmen Series), pp. 139-165; LECKY, History of England in the Eighteenth
											Century, Vol. I, chap. iii, pp. 364-437.
								The English Parliament: LECKY, Vol. II,
									chap. iv, pp. 45-63; MAY, Constitutional History of England,
									chaps. v and vi.
								Political Parties in England: LECKY, Vol.
									I, chap. ii, pp. 212-270; MAY, chap. viii.
					
				

				
					

					CHAPTER III
						RUSSIA AND PRUSSIA BECOME EUROPEAN POWERS

					

						PETER THE GREAT PLANS TO MAKE
								RUSSIA A EUROPEAN POWER

						10. Among the most conspicuous of the benevolent despots of whom we
							have spoken were Frederick the Great of Prussia and Catharine the Great of Russia.
							While much was said in the previous volume of France, England, Spain, the Netherlands,
							the Holy Roman Empire, and the Italian states, it was not necessary hitherto to speak
							of Russia and Prussia. In the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries these states,
							however, played a great part in European affairs, and in order to understand how they
							grew up, we must turn from the Rhine and the Pyrenees to the shores of the Baltic and
							the vast plains of eastern Europe. While the long War of the Spanish Succession had
							been in progress, due to Louis XIV's anxiety to add Spain to the possessions of his
							family, another conflict was raging in the north, and changes were taking place there
							comparable in importance to those which were ratified by the Peace of Utrecht. Russia,
							which had hitherto faced eastward, was turning toward the west, upon which she was
							destined to exert an ever-increasing influence. The newly founded kingdom of Prussia
							was gathering its forces for a series of brilliant military exploits under the
							leadership of Frederick the Great.

						The Slavic peoples of Europe and the extent of Russia

						There has been no occasion in dealing with the situation in western Europe to speak
							heretofore of the Slavic peoples to which the Russians, as well as the Poles,
							Bohemians, Bulgarians, and other nations of eastern Europe belong, although together
							they constitute the most numerous race in Europe. Not until  the opening of the eighteenth century did Russia begin to take an active
							part in western affairs. Now she is one of the most important factors in the politics
							of the world. Of the realms of the Tsar, that portion which lies in Europe exceeds in
							extent the territories of all the other rulers of the Continent put together, and yet
							European Russia comprises scarcely a quarter of the Tsar's whole dominion, which
							embraces northern and central Asia, extends to the Pacific Ocean, and forms all
							together an empire covering about three times the area of the United States.

						Beginnings of Russia

						The beginnings of the Russian state fall in the ninth century; some of the Northmen
							invaded the districts to the east of the Baltic, while their relatives were causing
							grievous trouble in France and England. It is generally supposed that one of their
							leaders, Rurik, was the first to consolidate the Slavic tribes about Novgorod into a
							sort of state in 862. Rurik's successor extended the bounds of the new empire so as to
							include the important town of Kiev on the Dnieper. The word "Russia" is probably
							derived from Rous, the name given by the neighboring Finns to the
							Norman adventurers. Before the end of the tenth century the Greek form of Christianity
							was introduced and the Russian ruler was baptized. The frequent intercourse with
							Constantinople might have led to rapid advance in civilization had it not been for a
							great disaster which put Russia back for centuries.

						The Tartar invasion in the thirteenth century

						Russia is geographically nothing more than an extension of the vast plain of northern
							Asia, which the Russians were destined finally to conquer. It was therefore exposed to
							the great invasion of the Tartars, or Mongols, who swept in from the East in the
							thirteenth century. The powerful Tartar ruler, Genghis Khan (1162-1227), conquered
							northern China and central Asia, and the mounted hordes of his successors crossed into
							Europe and overran Russia, which had fallen' apart into numerous principalities. The
							Russian princes became the dependents of the great Khan, and had frequently to seek
							his far-distant court, some three thousand miles away, where he freely disposed of
							both their crowns and their heads. The  Tartars exacted
							tribute of the Russians, but left them undisturbed in their laws and religion.

						Influence of the Tartar occupation on manners and customs
						Ivan the Terrible assumes the title of Tsar

						Of the Russian princes who went to prostrate themselves at the foot of the Great
							Khan's throne, none made a more favorable impression upon him than did the prince of
							Moscow, in whose favor the Khan was wont to decide all cases of dispute between the
							prince and his rivals. When the Mongol power had begun to decline in strength and the
							princes of Moscow had grown stronger, they ventured, in 1480, to kill the Mongol
							ambassadors sent to demand tribute, and thus freed themselves from the Mongol yoke.
							But the Tartar occupation had left its mark, for the princes of Moscow imitated the
							Khans rather than the western rulers, of whom, in fact, they knew nothing. In 1547
							Ivan the Terrible assumed the Asiatic title of Tsar,1 which appeared to him more worthy than that of king or
							emperor The costumes and etiquette of the court were also Asiatic. The Russian armor
							suggested that of the Chinese, and their headdress was a turban. It was the task of
							Peter the Great to Europeanize Russia.

						Peter the Great (1672-1725)

						At the time of Peter's accession, Russia, which had grown greatly under Ivan the
							Terrible and other enterprising rulers, still had no outlet to the sea. In manners and
							customs the kingdom was Asiatic, and its government was that of a Tartar prince. Peter
							had no quarrel with the despotic power which fell to him and which the Russian
							monarchs still exercise. But he knew that Russia was very much behind the rest of
							Europe, and that his crudely equipped soldiers could never make head against the
							well-armed and disciplined troops of the West. He had no seaport and no ships, without
							which Russia could never hope to take part in the world's affairs. His two great tasks
							were, therefore, to introduce western habits and to "make a window," as he expressed
							it, through which Russia might look abroad.2

						1 The title Tsar, or Czar,
							was formerly supposed to be connected with Caesar (German, Kaiser),
							i.e. emperor, but this appears to have been a mistake.

						2 For contemporary accounts
							of Peter and his works, see Readings, Vol. I, pp. 57 ff.

						

						Peter's travels in Europe

						In 1697-1698, when the western powers were enjoying the peace concluded at Ryswick,
							Peter himself visited Germany, Holland, and England, with a view to investigating
							every art and science of the West, as well as the most approved methods of
							manufacture, from the making of a man-of-war to the etching of an engraving. Nothing
							escaped the keen eyes of this rude, half-savage northern giant. For a week he put on
							the wide breeches of a Dutch laborer and worked in the shipyard at Saardam near
							Amsterdam. In England, Holland, and Germany he engaged artisans, scientific men,
							architects, ship captains, and those versed in artillery and the training of troops,
							all of whom he took back with him to aid in the reform and development of Russia.

						Suppression of revolt against foreign ideas

						He was called home by the revolt of the royal guard, who had allied themselves with
							the very large party of nobles and churchmen who were horrified at Peter's desertion
							of the habits and customs of his forefathers. They hated what they called "German
							ideas," such as short coats, tobacco smoking, and beardless faces. The clergy even
							suggested that Peter was perhaps Antichrist. Peter took a fearful revenge upon the
							rebels, and is said to have himself cut off the heads of many of them.

						Peter's reform measures

						Peter's reforms extended through his whole reign. He made his people give up their
							cherished oriental beards and long flowing garments. He forced the women of the better
							class, who had been kept in a sort of oriental harem, to come out and meet the men in
							social assemblies, such as were common in the West. He invited foreigners to settle in
							Russia, and insured them protection, privileges, and the free exercise of their
							religion. He sent young Russians abroad to study. He reorganized the government
							officials on the model of a western kingdom, and made over his army in the same
								way.1

						Founding of a new capital, St. Petersburg

						Finding that the old capital of Moscow clung persistently to its ancient habits, he
							prepared to build a new capital for his new Russia. He selected for this purpose a bit
							of territory 1 See Readings, Vol. I, pp. 6 ff.
							
							
								PETER THE GREAT WATCHING THE PROCEDURE OF THE HOUSE OF LORDS
									IN ENGLAND

								He was taken to the roof one night where he could get a clear view
									of the House
							
							
							 on the Baltic which he had conquered from Sweden,-- very
							marshy, it is true,-- where he hoped to construct Russia's first real port. Here he
							built St. Petersburg at enormous expense and colonized it with Russians and
							foreigners.

						The military prowess of Charles XII of Sweden

						In his ambition to get to the sea, Peter naturally collided with Sweden, to which the
							provinces between Russia and the Baltic belonged. Never had Sweden, or any other
							country, had a more warlike king than the one with whom Peter had to contend,-- the
							youthful prodigy, Charles XII. When Charles came to the throne in 1697 he was only
							fifteen years old, and it seemed to the natural enemies of Sweden an auspicious time
							to profit by the supposed weakness of the boy ruler. So a union was formed between
							Denmark, Poland, and Russia, with the object of increasing their territories at
							Sweden's expense. But Charles turned out to be a second Alexander the Great in
							military prowess. He astonished Europe by promptly besieging Copenhagen and forcing
							the king of Denmark to sign a treaty of peace. He then turned like lightning against
							Peter, who was industriously besieging Narva, and with eight thousand Swedes wiped out
							an army of fifty thousand Russians (1700). Lastly he defeated the king of Poland.

						Defeat ad death of Charles XII

						Though Charles was a remarkable military leader, he was a foolish ruler. He undertook
							to wrest Poland from its king, to whom he attributed the formation of the league
							against him. He had a new king crowned at Warsaw, whom he at last succeeded in getting
							recognized. He then turned his attention to Peter, who had meanwhile been conquering
							the Baltic provinces. This time fortune turned against the Swedes. The long march to
							Moscow proved as fatal to them as to Napoleon a century later, Charles XII being
							totally defeated in the battle of Pultowa (1709). He fled to Turkey, where he spent
							some years in vainly urging the Sultan to attack Peter. Returning at last to his own
							kingdom, which he had utterly neglected for years, he was killed in i718 while
							besieging a town.

						

						Russia acquires the Baltic provinces and attempts to get a footing on
							the Black Sea

						Soon after Charles's death a treaty was concluded between Sweden and Russia by which
							Russia gained Livonia, Esthonia, and the other Swedish provinces at the eastern end of
							the Baltic. Peter had made less successful attempts to get a footing on the Black Sea.
							He had first taken Azof, which he soon lost during the war with Sweden, and then
							several towns on the Caspian. It had become evident that if the Turks should be driven
							out of Europe, Russia would be a mighty rival of the western powers in the division of
							the spoils.

						For a generation after the death of Peter the Great, Russia fell into the hands of
							incompetent rulers. It appears again as a European state when the great Catharine II,
							of whose reforms we have already spoken above, came to the throne in 1762. From that
							time on, the western powers had always to consider the vast Slavic empire in all their
							great struggles. They had also to consider a new kingdom in northern Germany, Prussia,
							which was just growing into a great power as Peter began his work.
					

					
						RISE OF PRUSSIA

						The House of Hohenzollern

						11. The electorate of Brandenburg had figured on the map of Europe
							for centuries, and there was no particular reason to suppose that it was one day to
							become the dominant state in Germany. Early in the fifteenth century the old line of
							electors had died out, and the impecunious Emperor Sigismund had sold the electorate
							to a hitherto inconspicuous house, the Hohenzollerns, who are known to us now through
							such names as those of Frederick the Great, William I, the first German emperor, and
							his grandson, the present emperor. While it has always been the pride of the
							Hohenzollern family that practically every one of its reigning members has added
							something to what his ancestors handed down to him, nothing need be said of the
							earlier little annexations; no great extension took place until 1614, when the elector
							of Brandenburg inherited Cleves and Mark, and thus got his first hold on the Rhine
							district.

						

						Prussia acquired by the elector of Brandenburg

						What was quite as important, he won, four years later, far to the east, the duchy of
							Prussia, which was separated from Brandenburg by Polish territory. Prussia was
							originally the name of a region on the Baltic inhabited by heathen Slavs. These had
							been conquered in the thirteenth century by one of the orders of crusading knights,
							who, when the conquest of the Holy Land was abandoned, looked about for other
							occupations. The region filled up with German colonists, but it came under the
							sovereignty of the neighboring kingdom of Poland, whose ruler annexed the western half
							of the territory of the Teutonic Order, as the German knights were called. In Luther's
							day (1525) the knights accepted Protestantism and dissolved their order. They then
							formed their lands into the duchy of Prussia and made their Grand Master, who was a
							relative of the elector of Brandenburg, their first duke, under the suzerainty of the
							king of Poland. About a hundred years later (1618) this branch of the Hohenzollerns
							died out, and the duchy then fell to the elector of Brandenburg.

						The territories of the Great Elector (1640-1688)

						Notwithstanding this substantial territorial gain, there was little promise that the
							hitherto obscure electorate would ever become a formidable power when, in 1640,
							Frederick William, known as the Great Elector, came to his inheritance. His
							territories were scattered from the Rhine to the Vistula, his army was of small
							account, and his authority disputed by powerful nobles and local assemblies. The
							center of his domain was Brandenburg. Far to the west was Mark, bordering on the Rhine
							valley, and Cleves, lying on both banks of that river. Far to the East, beyond the
							Vistula, was the duchy of Prussia, outside the borders of the Empire and subject to
							the overlordship of the king of Poland.

						Character of the Great Elector

						Frederick William was, however, well fitted for the task of welding these domains
							into a powerful state. He was coarse by nature, heartless in destroying opponents,
							treacherous in diplomatic negotiations, and entirely devoid of the culture which
							distinguished Louis XIV and his court. He set resolutely 
							to work to build up a great army, destroy the local assemblies in his provinces, place
							all government in the hands of his officials, and add new territories to his
							patrimony.

						The Great Elector makes important gains in territory

						In all of these undertakings he was largely successful. By shrewd tactics during the
							closing days of the Thirty Years' in War he managed to secure, by the Treaty of
							Westphalia, the bishoprics of Minden and Halberstadt and the duchy of Farther 
								Territories of the Great Elector of Brandenburg
							 Pomerania, which gave him a good shore line on the Baltic. He also forced
							Poland to surrender her overlordship of the duchy of Prussia and thus made himself a
							duke independent of the Empire.

						Reforms of the Great Elector

						Knowing that the interests of his house depended on military strength, he organized,
							in spite of the protests of the taxpayers, an army out of all proportion to the size
							and wealth of his dominions. He reformed the system of administration and succeeded in
							creating an absolute monarchy on the model furnished by his contemporary, Louis XIV.
							He joined England and Holland in their alliances against Louis, and the army of
							Brandenburg began to be known and feared.

						Huguenots received in Brandenburg

						Though a good Protestant, the Great Elector permitted religious freedom to a
							remarkable degree. He made Catholics eligible to office and, on the other hand, gave
							asylum to the  persecuted Huguenots of France, even
							offering them special inducements to settle in his realms. In short, as his
							illustrious descendant, Frederick the Great, wrote: "He was the restorer and defender
							of Brandenburg, and an arbiter among his equals. With slight means he did great
							things; he was his own prime minister and commander in chief and rendered flourishing
							a state which he found buried beneath its own ruins."

						Brandenburg becomes the kingdom of Prussia, 1701

						It was accordingly a splendid legacy which the Great Elector left in 1688 to his son,
							Frederick III, and although the career of the latter was by no means as brilliant as
							that of his father, he was able by a bold stroke to transform his electorate into a
							kingdom. The opportunity for this achievement was offered by the need of the powers
							for his assistance against the designs of Louis XIV. When the Emperor called upon
							Frederick III in 1700 to assist him in securing a division of the Spanish dominions,
							the elector exacted as the price of his help the recognition of his right to take the
							title of king.

						Frederick III elector of Brandenburg, becomes King Frederick I of
							Prussia

						The title King of Prussia was deemed preferable to the more natural King of
							Brandenburg because Prussia lay wholly without the bounds of the Empire and
							consequently its ruler was not in any sense subject to the Emperor but was entirely
							independent. Since West Prussia still belonged to Poland in 1701, the new king
							satisfied himself at first with the title King in Prussia.

						Government of Frederick William I (1713-1740)

						The second ruler of the new kingdom, Frederick William I, the father of Frederick the
							Great, is known to history as the rough and boorish barrack king who devoted himself
							entirely to governing his realm, collecting tall soldiers, drilling his battalions,
							hunting wild game, and smoking strong tobacco. He ruled his family and his country
							with an iron hand, declaring to those who remonstrated, "Salvation belongs to the
							Lord; everything else is my business."1

						Frederick William and his soldiers

						Frederick William was passionately fond of military life from his childhood. He took
							special pride in stalwart soldiers 1 For Frederick William's instructions for the education of his
								son, see Readings, Vol. I, p. 65.
							' and collected them at great expense from all parts of
							Europe. He raised the army, which numbered twenty-seven thousand in the days of the
							Great Elector, to eighty-four thousand, making it almost equal to that maintained by
							France or Austria. He reserved to himself the right to appoint subordinates as well as
							high officials in the service, and based promotion on excellence in discipline rather
							than on family connections. He was constantly drilling and reviewing his men, whom he
							addressed affectionately as "my blue children."

						Miserly economy in finances

						Moreover, by wise management, miserly thrift, and entire indifference to the
							amenities of life, Frederick William treasured up a huge sum of money. He discharged a
							large number of court servants, sold at auction many of the royal jewels, and had a
							great portion of the family plate coined into money. Consequently he was able to leave
							to his son, Frederick II, not only an admirable army but an ample supply of gold.
							Indeed, it was his toil and economy that made possible the achievements of his far
							more distinguished son.
					

					

						THE WARS OF FREDERICK THE GREAT

						The accession of Frederick and Maria Theresa

						12. Frederick II came to the throne in the spring of 1740. In the
							autumn the Emperor Charles VI died and left his Austrian domains to his eldest
							daughter, Maria Theresa, then only twenty-three years old, five years younger than her
							future rival, the king of Prussia. Her father had no near male relatives to whom the
							vast Hapsburg possessions would descend after his death; he was very anxious that his
							daughter should inherit all the Austrian lands, and spent much of his life inducing
							the more important powers of Europe-- Russia, Prussia, Holland, Spain, England, and
							France-- to agree to his plan.

						Queenly traits of Maria Theresa

						For a time it seemed as if no one was going to take advantage of Maria Theresa's
							inexperience to rob her of any of her outlying possessions. She began immediately to
							display astonishing energy and aptitude for the business of governing. She 
							 
							
							 patiently attended to all the tiresome matters of state,
							read long documents and reports, conscientiously consulted her ministers, and
							conferred with the ambassadors of foreign courts. Her clear judgment, her
							distinguished bearing, her love of pomp and ceremony,-- all helped her to sustain her
							dignity in the trying circumstances in which she soon found herself. She had none of
							Frederick's appreciation of culture, and, unlike her son Joseph II, whose reforms have
							already been described, she exhibited a contempt for science and philosophy. Nor had
							she any sympathy with religious toleration; on the contrary, she abhorred the
							sceptical notions of the Prussian king and his admiration for Voltaire.

						Polyglot Austrian dominions

						The problems which confronted her would have been difficult enough if her realms had
							been compact and inhabited by people of a single race. The Austrian possessions were,
							however, as has already been pointed out, a most miscellaneous and scattered
							collection of territories, great and small, inhabited by a large variety of widely
							differing races,-- Germans in Austria. proper, Czechs mixed with Germans in Bohemia
							and Moravia, Magyars in Hungary, Croatians and Slovenes to the south, Italians in
							Milan and Tuscany, French and Walloons in the Netherlands. The chief cities of the
							young queen included such scattered and varied places as Vienna, Pesth, Prague, Milan,
							Brussels, and Antwerp.

						Frederick's attack upon Silesia (1740)

						Maria Theresa's dominions soon began to attract the ambitious Frederick, and he
							determined to rob her of Silesia, a strip of territory lying to the southeast of
							Brandenburg. He accordingly marched his army into the coveted district, and occupied
							the important city of Breslau without declaring war or offering any excuse except a
							vague claim to a portion of the land.1

						The War of the Austrian Succession

						France, stimulated by Frederick's example, joined with Bavaria in the attack upon
							Maria Theresa. It seemed for a 1 For Frederick's manifesto on seizing Silesia, see Readings, Vol. I, p. 72. A fuller account of the dreary wars of this period
								may be found in Robinson and Beard, Development of Modern Eurote,
								Vol. I, chap. v.
							 time as if her struggle to maintain the integrity of her
							realm would be vain, but the loyalty of all the various peoples under her scepter was
							roused by her extraordinary courage and energy. The French were driven back, but Maria
							Theresa was forced to grant Silesia to Frederick in order to induce him to retire from
							the war. Finally, England and Holland joined in an alliance for maintaining the
							balance of power, for they had no desire to see France annex the Austrian Netherlands.
							On the death of the Emperor Charles VII (1745), Maria Theresa's husband, Francis, duke
							of Lorraine, was chosen emperor. A few years later (1748) all the powers, tired of the
							war, laid down their arms and agreed to what is called in diplomacy the status quo ante bellum, which simply means that things were to be restored to
							the condition in which they had been before the opening of hostilities.

						Frederick promotes the material development of Prussia
						Frederick and Voltaire

						Frederick was, however, permitted to keep Silesia, which increased his dominions by
							about one third of their former extent. He now turned his attention to making his
							subjects happier and more prosperous, by draining the swamps, promoting industry, and
							drawing up a new code of laws. He found time, also, to gratify his interest in men of
							letters, and invited Voltaire1
							to make his home at Berlin. It will not seem strange to any one who knows anything of
							the character of these two men, that they quarreled after two or three years, and that
							Voltaire left the Prussian king with very bitter feelings.

						The Seven Years' War

						Maria Theresa was by no means reconciled to the loss of Silesia, and she began to lay
							her plans for expelling the perfidious Frederick and regaining her lost territory.
							This led to one of the most important wars in modern history, in which not only almost
							every European power joined, but which involved the whole world, from the Indian
							rajahs of Hindustan to the colonists of Virginia and New England. This Seven Years'
							War (1756-1763) will be considered in its broader aspects in the next chapter. We note
							here only the part played in it by the king of Prussia.

						1 See
								above, pp. 27 ff.

						

						The alliance against Prussia

						Maria Theresa's ambassador at Paris was so skillful in his negotiations with the
							French court that in 1756 he induced it, in spite of its two hundred years of
							hostility to the House of Hapsburg, to enter into an alliance with Austria against
							Prussia. Russia, Sweden, and Saxony also agreed to join in a concerted attack on
							Prussia. Their armies, coming as they did from every point of the compass, threatened
							the complete annihilation of Austria's rival. It seemed as if the new kingdom of
							Prussia might disappear altogether from the map of Europe.

						Frederick's victorious defense

						However, it was in this war that Frederick earned his title of "the Great" and showed
							himself the equal of the ablest generals the world has seen, from Alexander to
							Napoleon. Learning the object of the allies, he did not wait for them to declare war
							against him, but occupied Saxony at once and then moved on into Bohemia, where he
							nearly succeeded in taking the capital, Prague. Here he was forced to retire, but in
							1757 he defeated the French and his German enemies in the most famous, perhaps, of his
							battles, at Rossbach. A month later he routed the Austrians at Leuthen,1 not far from Breslau. Thereupon
							the Swedes and the Russians retired from the field and left Frederick for the moment
							master of the situation.

						Frederick finally triumphs over Austria

						England now engaged the French and left Frederick at liberty to deal with his other
							enemies. While he exhibited marvelous military skill, he was by no means able to gain
							all the battles in which he engaged. For a time, indeed, it looked as if he might,
							after all, be vanquished. But the accession of a new Tsar, who was an ardent admirer
							of Frederick, led Russia to conclude peace with Prussia, whereupon Maria Theresa
							reluctantly agreed to give up once more her struggle with her inveterate enemy.
							Shortly afterwards England and France came to terms, and a general settlement was made
							at Paris in 1763.2

						1 For Frederick's address
							to his officers before the battle of Leuthen, see Readings, Vol. I,
							p. 80.
						2 See
								below, p. 78.
					

					

					

						THREE PARTITIONS OF POLAND, 1772, 1793, AND 1795

						13. Frederick's success in seizing and holding one of Austria's
							finest provinces did not satisfy him. The central portions of his kingdom--
							Brandenburg, Silesia, and Pomerania-- were completely cut off from East Prussia by a
							considerable tract known as West Prussia, which belonged to the kingdom of Poland. The
							map will show how great must have been Frederick's temptation to fill this gap,
							especially as Poland was in no condition to defend its possessions.

						Mixed population and discordant religions in Poland

						With the exception of Russia, Poland was the largest kingdom in Europe. It covered an
							immense plain with no natural boundaries, and the population, which was very thinly
							scattered, belonged to several races. Besides the Poles themselves, there were Germans
							in the cities of West Prussia, and the Lithuanians and Russians in Lithuania. The Jews
							were very numerous everywhere, forming half of the population in some of the towns.
							The Poles were usually Catholics, while the Germans were Protestants, and the Russians
							adhered to the Greek Church. These differences in religion, added to those of race,
							created endless difficulties and dissensions.

						The defective system of government
						The liberum veto

						The government of Poland was the worst imaginable. Instead of having developed a
							strong monarchy, as her neighbors-- Prussia, Russia, and Austria-- had done, she
							remained in a state of feudal anarchy which the nobles had taken the greatest pains to
							perpetuate by binding their kings in such a way that they had no power either to
							maintain order or to defend the country from attack. The king could not declare war,
							make peace, impose taxes, or pass any law without the consent of the diet. As the diet
							was composed of representatives of the nobility, any one of whom could freely veto any
							measure,-- for no measure could pass that had even one vote against it,-- most of the
							diets broke up without accomplishing anything.

						The elective kingship

						The kingship was not hereditary in Poland, but whenever the ruler died, the nobles
							assembled and chose a new one, commonly  a foreigner.
							These elections were tumultuous, and the various European powers regularly interfered,
							by force or bribery, to secure the election of a candidate whom they believed would
							favor their interests.

						The Polish obels and peasants

						The nobles in Poland were numerous. There were perhaps a million and a half of them,
							mostly very poor, owning only a trifling bit of land. There was a saying that the poor
							noble's dog, even if he sat in the middle of the estate, was sure to have his tail
							upon a neighbor's land. It was the few rich and powerful families that really
							controlled such government as might be said to have existed in Poland. There was no
							middle class except in the few German towns. In the Polish and Lithuanian towns such
							industry and commerce as existed were in the hands of the Jews, who were not
							recognized as citizens and who both oppressed and were oppressed. The peasants were
							miserable indeed. They had sunk from serfs to slaves over whom their lords had the
							right of life and death.

						Catherine II and Frederick II agree on Polish matters, 1764

						It required no great insight to foresee that Poland was in danger of falling a prey
							to her greedy and powerful neighbors, Russia, Prussia, and Austria, who clamped in the
							unfortunate kingdom on all sides. They had long shamelessly interfered in its affairs
							and had actually taken active measures to oppose all reforms of the constitution in
							order that they might profit by the existing anarchy. When Augustus III died in 1763,
							just as the Seven Years' War had been brought to a close, Frederick immediately
							arranged with the new Russian ruler, the famous Catharine II, to put upon the vacant
							throne her favorite, Poniatowski, who took the title of Stanislas II.

						Russia and Prussia agree to prevent reforms in Poland

						Catharine was soon disappointed in Stanislas Poniatowski, who showed himself
							favorable to reform. He even proposed to do away with the liberum
								veto,-- the sacred right of any member of the diet to block a measure no matter
							how salutary. Russia, however, supported by Prussia, intervened to demand that the
							liberum veto, which insured continued anarchy, should be maintained. Then came several
							years of civil war  between the several factions, a war
							in which the Russians freely intervened.

						Austria agrees to the partition of Poland

						Austria was a neighbor of Poland and deeply interested in her affairs. She
							consequently approached her old enemy, Frederick, and between them they decided that
							Russia should be allowed to take a portion of Poland if Catharine would consent to
							give up most of the conquests her armies had just made in Turkey; then Austria, in
							order to maintain the balance of power, should be given a slice of Poland, and
							Frederick should take the longed-for West Prussia.

						First partition of Poland, 1772

						Accordingly in 1772 Poland's three neighbors arranged to take each a portion of the
							distracted kingdom. Austria was assigned a strip inhabited by almost three million
							Poles and Russians, and thus added two new kinds of people and two new languages to
							her already varied collection of races and tongues. Prussia was given a smaller piece,
							but it was the coveted West Prussia which she needed to fill out her boundaries, and
							its inhabitants were to a considerable extent Germans and Protestants. Russia's strip
							on the east was inhabited entirely by Russians. The Polish diet was forced, by the
							advance of Russian troops to Warsaw, to approve the partition.1

						Revival of Poland, 1772-1791

						Poland seemed at first, however, to have learned a great lesson from the disaster.
							During the twenty years following its first dismemberment there was an extraordinary
							revival in education, art, and literature; the old universities at Vilna and Cracow
							were reorganized and many new schools established. King Stanislas Poniatowski summoned
							French and Italian artists and entered into correspondence with the French
							philosophers and reformers. Historians and poets sprang up to give distinction to the
							last days of Polish independence. The old intolerance and bigotry decreased, and,
							above all, the constitution which had made Poland the laughingstock and the victim of
							its neighbors was abolished and an entirely new one worked out.

						1 Catharine's announcement
							of the first partition of Poland is in the Readings, Vol. I, p.
							82.

						

						The new Polish constitution of 1791

						The new Polish constitution, approved on May 3, 1791, did away with the liberum veto,
							made the crown hereditary, established a parliament something like that of England,--
							in of 1791 short, gave to the king power enough to conduct the government efficiently
							and yet made him and his ministers dependent upon the representatives of the
							nation.

						Catherine frustrates the reform

						There was a party, however, which regretted the changes and feared that they might
							result in time in doing away with the absolute control of the nobles over the
							peasants. These opponents of reform appealed to Catharine for aid. She, mindful as
							always of her own interests, denounced all changes in a government "under which the
							Polish republic had flourished for so many centuries," and declared that the reformers
							were no better than the abhorred French Jacobins, who were busy destroying the power
							of their king.1 She sent her
							soldiers and her wild Cossacks into Poland, and the enemies of the new constitution
							were able with her help to undo all that had been done and to reëstablish the liberum veto.

						Second partition of Poland, 1793

						Not satisfied with plunging Poland into her former anarchy, Russia and Prussia
							determined to rob her of still more territory. Frederick the Great's successor,
							Frederick William II, ordered his forces across his eastern boundary on the ground
							that Danzig was sending grain to the French Revolutionists, that Poland was infested
							with Jacobins, and that, in general, she threatened the tranquillity of her neighbors.
							Prussia cut deep into Poland, added a million and a half of Poles to her subjects, and
							acquired the towns of Thorn, Danzig, and Posen.2 Russia's gains were three millions of people, who at least
							belonged to her own race. On this occasion Austria was put off with the promises of
							her confederates, Russia and Prussia, that they would use their good offices to secure
							Bavaria for her in exchange for the Austrian Netherlands.

						1 See below, p. 255.

						2 For Frederick William
							II's proclamation to the Poles, see Readings, Vol. I, p. 85.

						

						Revolt of Poles under Kosciusco, 1794

						At this juncture the Poles found a national leader in the brave Kosciusco, who had
							fought under Washington for American liberty. With the utmost care and secrecy he
							organized an insurrection in the spring of 1794 and summoned the Polish people to join
							his standard of national independence. The Poles who had been incorporated into the
							Prussian monarchy thereupon rose and forced Frederick William to withdraw his
							forces.

						Third and final partition, 1795

						Catharine was ready, however, to crush the patriots. Kosciusco was wounded and
							captured in battle, and by the end of the year Russia was in control of Warsaw. The
							Polish king was compelled to abdicate, and the remnants of the dismembered kingdom
							were divided, after much bitter contention, among Austria, Russia, and Prussia. In the
							three partitions which blotted out the kingdom of Poland from the map of Europe,
							Russia received nearly all of the old grand duchy of Lithuania, or nearly twice the
							combined shares of Austria and Prussia.
					

					

						REFERENCES
								Russia under Peter the Great: WAKEMAN,
										European History, 1598-1715, pp. 298-304; RAMBAUD, History of Russia, Vol. II, pp. 76-105.
								Brandenburg and the Great Elector: WAKEMAN, pp. 173-181, 292-297; HENDERSON, Short History of Germany, Vol. II, pp. 9-29; CARLYLE,
										Frederick the Great, Vol. I, Book III, chap. xviii; TUTTLE, History of Prussia to the Accession of
											Frederick the Great, pp. 208-250.
								Frederick William, the Father of Frederick the Great: TUTTLE, PP. 337-487; HENDERSON, Vol. I, pp.
									87-111; CARLYLE, Vol. I, Book IV, chaps. iii and iv.
								Maria Theresa and the First Silesian War: HENDERSON, Vol. II, pp. 123-148; KITCHIN, History of France, Vol. III, pp. 409-425; PERKINS, France under Louis XV, Vol. I, pp. 164-205, 346-378; BRIGHT, Maria Theresa, pp. 1-63.
								Walpole and the Spanish War: GREEN, Short History of the English People, chap. ix, pp. 732-734;
									MORLEY, Walpole.
								Frederick the Great and the Seven Years' War: HASSALL, European History, 1715-1789, pp. 241-279; KITCHIN, Vol. III,  pp. 445-468; PERKINS, Vol. II, pp. 85-177; HENDERSON, Vol.
									II, pp. 149-181; BRIGHT, pp. 135-187.
								Pitt and the Seven Years' War: GREEN,
									chap. x, pp. 735-757.
								Poland in the Eighteenth Century: RAMBAUD, Vol. II, pp. 184-192; MORFILL, Poland.
								The Partition of Poland: HASSALL, pp. 312-318; RAMBAUD, Vol. II, pp. 192-197, 232-245; PÉRKINS, Vol. II, pp. 285-309.
								Final Destruction of Poland:
									Cambridge Modern History, Vol. VIII, chap. xvii; STEPHENS, European History, 1789-1815, pp. 103-105,
									151-153.
								Catharine II: RAMBAUD, Vol. II, pp.
									183-247; BURY, Catharine II (Foreign
									Statesmen Series).
					
				

				

				
					CHAPTER IV
						THE STRUGGLE BETWEEN FRANCE AND ENGLAND IN INDIA AND NORTH
							AMERICA

					

						HOW EUROPE BEGAN TO EXTEND ITS
								COMMERCE OVER THE WHOLE WORLD

						14. The long and disastrous wars of the eighteenth century which we
							have been reviewing seem, from the standpoint of the changes they produced in Europe,
							to have been scarcely worth our attention. It was not a vital question in the world's
							history whether a member of the House of Bourbon or of the House of Hapsburg sat on
							the throne of Spain, whether Silesia belonged to Frederick or Maria Theresa, or even
							whether Poland continued to exist or not. But in addition to these contentions among
							the various dynasties and these shiftings of territory were other interests far beyond
							the confines of Europe, and to these we must now turn.41

						The history of Europe only to be explained by the history of Europe's
							colonies

						The history Constant wars have been waged during the past two centuries by the
							European nations in their efforts to extend and defend their distant possessions. The
							War of the Spanish Succession concerned the trade as well as the throne of Spain. The
							internal affairs of each country have been constantly influenced by the demands of its
							merchants and the achievements of its sailors and soldiers, fighting rival nations or
							alien peoples thousands of miles from London, Paris, or Vienna. The great
							manufacturing towns of England-- Leeds, Manchester, and Birmingham-- owe their
							prosperity to India, China, and Australia. Liverpool, Amsterdam, and Hamburg, with
							their long 1 For a more
								detailed account of the contest between France and England in India and North
								America, see Robinson and Beard, Development of Modern Europe,
								Vol. I, chaps. vi and vii.
							 lines of docks and warehouses and their fleets of
							merchant vessels, would dwindle away if their trade were confined to the demands of
							their European neighbors.

						Vast extent of the European colonial dominion

						Europe includes scarcely a twelfth of the land upon the globe, and yet over three
							fifths of the world is to-day either occupied by peoples of European origin or ruled
							by European states. The possessions of France in Asia and Africa exceed the entire
							area of Europe; even the little kingdom of the Netherlands administers a colonial
							dominion three times the size of the German Empire. The British Empire, of which the
							island of Great Britain constitutes but a hundredth part, includes one fifth of the
							world's dry land. Moreover European peoples have populated the United States, which is
							nearly as large as all of Europe, and rule all of Mexico and South America.

						In this chapter the origin of European colonization will be briefly explained, as
							well as the manner in which England succeeded in extending her sway over the teeming
							millions of India. We shall also review England's victory over France in the western
							hemisphere. In this way the real meaning of the Seven Years' War will become
							clear.

						Narrow limits of the ancient and medieval world

						The widening of the field of European history is one of the most striking features of
							modern times. Though the Greeks and Romans carried on a large trade in silks, spices,
							and precious stones with India and China, they really knew little of the world beyond
							southern Europe, northern Africa, and western Asia, and much that they knew was
							forgotten during the Middle Ages. Slowly, however, the interest in the East revived
							and travelers began to add to the scanty knowledge handed down from antiquity.

						Colonial policy of Portugal, Spain, and Holland in the sixteenth and
							seventeenth centuries

						The voyages which had brought America and India within the ken of Europe during the
							fifteenth and early sixteenth centuries were, as we know, mainly undertaken by the
							Portuguese and Spaniards. Portugal was the first to realize the advantage of extending
							her commerce by establishing stations in India after Vasco da Gama rounded the Cape of
							Good Hope in  1498;1 and later by founding posts on the Brazilian coast of
							South America; then Spain laid claim to Mexico, the West Indies, and a great part of
							South America. These two powers found formidable rivals in the Dutch; for when Philip
							II was able to add Portugal to the realms of the Spanish monarchs for a few decades
							(i58o-1640), he immediately closed the port of Lisbon to the Dutch ships. Thereupon
							the United Provinces, whose merchants could no longer procure the spices which the
							Portuguese brought from the East, resolved to take possession of the source of
							supplies. They accordingly expelled the Portuguese from a number of their settlements
							in India and the Spice Islands, and brought Java, Sumatra, and other tropical regions
							under Dutch control.

						Settlements of the French and English in North America

						In North America the chief rivals were England and France, both of which succeeded in
							establishing colonies in the early part of the seventeenth century. Englishmen
							successively settled at Jamestown in Virginia (1607), then in New England, Maryland,
							Pennsylvania, and elsewhere. The colonies owed their growth in part to the influx of
							refugees,-- Puritans, Catholics, and Quakers,-- who exiled themselves in the hope of
							gaining the right freely to enjoy their particular forms of religion.2 On the other hand, many came to better their
							fortunes in the New World, and thousands of bond servants and slaves were brought over
							as laborers.
					

					
						THE CONTEST BETWEEN FRANCE AND ENGLAND FOR COLONIAL EMPIRE

						15. Just as Jamestown was being founded by the English the French
							were making their first successful settlement in Nova Scotia and at Quebec. Although
							England made no attempt to oppose the French occupation of Canada, it progressed very
								1 See Readings, Vol. I, p. 92.
							2 For the settlement of
								the English and French in North America, see Morris, The History of
									Colonization, Vol. I, chap. x, and Vol. II, chap.xvii; Parkman, Montcalm and Wolfe, Vol. I, pp. 20-35; also Readings, Vol.
								I, pp. 121 ff.
							
							 
							
							 slowly. In 1673 Marquette, a Jesuit missionary, and
							Joliet, a merchant, explored a part of the Mississippi River.1 La Salle sailed down the great stream and
							named the new country which he entered Louisiana, after his king. The city of New
							Orleans was founded near the mouth of the river in 1718, and the French established a
							chain of forts between it and Montreal.

						England was able, however, by the Treaty of Utrecht, to establish herself in the
							northern regions, for France thereby ceded to her Newfoundland, Nova Scotia, and the
							borders of Hudson Bay. While the number of English in North America at the beginning
							of the Seven Years' War is reckoned to have been over a million, the French did not
							reach a hundred thousand. Yet careful observers at the time were by no means sure that
							France was not destined to dominate the new country rather than England.

						Extent of India

						The rivalry of England and France was not confined to the wildernesses of North
							America, occupied by half a million of savage red men. At the opening of the
							eighteenth century both countries had gained a firm foothold on the borders of the
							vast Indian empire, inhabited by two hundred millions of people and the seat of an
							ancient and highly developed civilization. One may gain some idea of the extent of
							India by laying the map of Hindustan upon that of the United States. If the
							southern-most point, Cape Comorin, be placed over New Orleans, Calcutta will lie
							nearly over New York City, and Bombay in the neighborhood of Des Moines, Iowa.

						The Mongolian emperors of Hindustan

						A generation after Vasco da Gama rounded the Cape, a Mongolian conqueror, Baber,2 had established his empire in
							India. The dynasty of Mongolian rulers which he founded was able to keep the whole
							country under its control for toward 1 For Marquette's account of his journey, see Readings, Vol. I, p. 116.
							2 Baber claimed to be
								descended from an earlier invader, the famous Timur (or Tamerlane), who died in
								1405. The so-called Mongol (or Mogul) emperors were really Turkish rather than
								Mongolian in origin. A very interesting account of them and their enlightenment may
								be found in Holden, The Mogul Emperors of Hindustan (Charles
								Scribner's Sons, $2.00).
							 two centuries; then after the death of the Great Mogul
							Arangzebe in 1707, their empire began to fall apart in much the same way as that of
							Charlemagne had done. Like the counts and dukes of the Carolingian period, the
							emperor's officials, the subahdars and nawabs (nabobs), and the rajahs-- i.e. Hindu
							princes temporarily subjugated by the Mongols-- had gradually got the power in their
							respective districts into their own hands. Although the emperor, or Great Mogul, as
							the English called him, continued to maintain himself in his capital of Delhi, he
							could no longer be said to rule the country at the opening of the eighteenth century
							when the French and English were beginning to turn their attention seriously to his
								coasts.1

						English and French settlements in India

						In the time of Charles I (1639), a village had been purchased by the English East
							India Company on the southeastern coast of Hindustan, which grew into the important
							English station of Madras. About the same time posts were established in the district
							of Bengal, and later Calcutta was fortified. Bombay was already an English station.
							The Mongolian emperor of India at first scarcely deigned to notice the presence of a
							few foreigners on the fringe of his vast realms. But before the end of the seventeenth
							century hostilities began between the English East India Company and the native
							rulers, which made it plain that the foreigners would be forced to defend
							themselves.

						The English had not only to face the opposition of the natives, but of a European
							power as well. France also had an East India Company, and Pondicherry, at the opening
							of the eighteenth century, was its chief center, with a population of sixty thousand,
							of which two hundred only were Europeans. It soon became apparent that there was
							little danger from the Great Mogul; moreover the Portuguese and Dutch were out of the
							race, so the native princes and the French and English were left to fight among
							themselves for the supremacy.

						England victorious in the struggle for supremacy in America

						Just before the clash of European rulers, known as the Seven Years' War, came in
							1756, the French and English had begun 1 For accounts of the Moguls, see Readings, Vol. I, pp. 101 ff.
							 their struggle for control in both America and India. In
							America the so-called French and Indian War began in 1754 between the English and
							French colonists. General Braddock was sent from England to capture Fort Duquesne,
							which the French had established to keep their rivals out of the Ohio valley. Braddock
							knew nothing of border warfare, and he was killed and his troops routed.1 Fortunately for England, France,
							as the ally of Austria, was soon engaged in a war with Prussia that prevented her from
							giving proper attention to her American possessions. A famous statesman, the elder
							Pitt, was now at the head of the English ministry. He was able not only to succor the
							hard-pressed king of Prussia with money and men, but also to support the militia of
							the thirteen American colonies. The French forts at Ticonderoga and Niagara were taken
							in 1758-1759. Quebec was won in Wolfe's heroic attack, and the next year all Canada
							submitted to the English.2
							England's supremacy on the sea was demonstrated by three admirals, each of whom
							destroyed a French fleet in the same year that Quebec was lost to France.

						Dupleix and Clive in India

						In India conflicts between the French and the English had occurred during the War of
							the Austrian Succession. The governor of the French station of Pondicherry was
							Dupleix, a soldier of great energy, who proposed to drive out the English and firmly
							establish the power of France over Hindustan. His chances of success were greatly
							increased by the quarrels among the native rulers, some of whom belonged to the
							earlier Hindu inhabitants and some to the Mohammedan Mongolians who had conquered
							India in 1526. Dupleix had very few French soldiers, but he began the enlistment of
							the natives, a custom eagerly adopted by the English. These native soldiers, whom the
							English called Sepoys, were taught to fight in the manner of Europeans.3

						Clive defeats Dupleix

						But the English colonists, in spite of the fact that they were mainly traders,
							discovered among the clerks in Madras a leader 1 For an account of Braddock's defeat (1755),
								see Readings, Vol. I, p. 126.
							2 The battle of Quebec
								(1759) is described in the Readings, Vol. I, p. 128.
							3See Perkins, France under Louis XIV, Vol. I, chap. xi.
							 equal in military skill and energy to Dupleix himself.
							Robert Clive, who was but twenty-five years old at this time, organized a large force
							of Sepoys and gained a remarkable ascendancy over them by his astonishing bravery.
							Dupleix paid no attention to the fact that peace had been declared in Europe at
							Aix-la-Chapelle, but continued to carry on his operations against the English. But
							Clive proved more than his equal, and in two years had very nearly established English
							supremacy in the southeastern part of India.

						Clive renders English influence supreme in India

						At the moment that the Seven Years' War was beginning, bad news reached Clive from
							the English settlement of Calcutta, in India about a thousand miles to the northeast
							of Madras. The nawab of Bengal had seized the property of some English merchants and
							imprisoned one hundred and forty-five Englishmen in a little room, where most of them
							died of suffocation before morning.1 Clive hastened to Bengal, and with a little army of nine hundred Europeans
							and fifteen hundred Sepoys he gained a great victory at Plassey in 1757 over the
							nawab's army of fifty thousand men. Clive then replaced the nawab of Bengal by a man
							whom he believed to be friendly to the English. Before the Seven Years' War was over
							the English had won Pondicherry and deprived the French of all their former influence
							in the region of Madras.

						England's gains in the Seven Year's War

						When the Seven Years' War was brought to an end in 1763 by the Treaty of Paris, it
							was clear that England had gained far more than any other power. She was to retain her
							two forts commanding the Mediterranean, Gibraltar, and Port Mahon on the island of
							Minorca; in America, France ceded to her the vast region of Canada and Nova Scotia, as
							well as several of the islands in the West Indies. The region beyond the Mississippi
							was ceded to Spain by France, who thus gave up all her claims to North America. In
							India, France, it is true, received back the towns which the English had taken from
							her, but she had permanently lost her influence over the native rulers, for Clive had
							made the English name greatly feared among them.

						1 See Readings, Vol. I, p. 107.
					

					

					

						REVOLT OF THE AMERICAN COLONIES FROM ENGLAND

						16. England had, however, no sooner added Canada to her possessions
							and driven the French from the broad region which lay between her dominions and the
							Mississippi than she lost the better part of her American empire by the revolt of the
							irritated colonists, who refused to submit to her interference in their government and
							commerce.

						For a long period England left her colonies very free

						The English settlers had been left alone, for the most part, by the home government
							and had enjoyed far greater freedom in the management of their affairs than had the
							French and Spanish colonies. Virginia established its own assembly in 1619 and
							Massachusetts became almost an independent commonwealth. Regular constitutions
							developed which were later used as the basis for those of the several states when the
							colonies gained their independence. England had been busied during the seventeenth
							century with a great struggle at home and with the wars stirred up by Louis XIV. After
							the Peace of Utrecht Walpole for twenty years prudently refused to interfere with the
							colonies. The result was that by the end of the Seven Years' War the colonists
							numbered over two millions. Their rapidly increasing wealth and strength, their free
							life in a new land, and the confidence they had gained in their successful conflict
							with the French,-- all combined to render the renewed interference of the home
							government intolerable to them.

						England taxes the colonies
						Stamp Act of 1765

						During the war with the French England began to realize for the first time that the
							colonies had money, and so Parliament decided that they should be required to pay part
							of the expenses of the recent conflict and support a small standing army of English
							soldiers. The Stamp Act was therefore passed, which taxed the colonists by requiring
							them to pay the English government for stamps which had to be used upon leases, deeds,
							and other legal documents in order to make them binding. But the indignant colonists
							declared that they had already borne the brunt of the war and that in any case
							Parliament, in which they  were not represented, had no
							right to tax them. Representatives of the colonies met in New York in 1765 and
							denounced the Stamp Act as indicating "a manifest tendency to subvert the rights and
							liberties of the colonists."

						Navigation laws

						More irritating than the attempts of Great Britain to tax the colonists were the
							vexatious navigation and trade laws by which she tried to keep all the benefits of
							colonial trade and industry to herself. The early navigation laws passed under
							Cromwell and Charles II were specially directed against the enterprising Dutch
							traders. They provided that all products grown or manufactured in Asia, Africa, or
							America should be imported into England or her colonies only in English ships. Thus if
							a Dutch merchant vessel laden with cloves, cinnamon, teas, and silks from the Far East
							anchored in the harbor of New York, the inhabitants could not lawfully buy of the
							ship's master, no matter how much lower his prices were than those offered by English
							shippers. Furthermore, another act provided that no commodity of European production
							or manufacture should be imported into any of the colonies without being shipped
							through England and carried in ships built in England or the colonies. So if a
							colonial merchant wished to buy French wines or Dutch watches, he would have to order
							through English merchants. Again, if a colonist desired to sell to a European merchant
							such products as the law permitted him to sell to foreigners, he had to export them in
							English ships and even send them by way of England.

						Trade laws

						What was still worse for the colonists, certain articles in which they were most
							interested, such as sugar, tobacco, cotton, and indigo, could be sold only in England.
							Other things they were forbidden to export at all, or even to produce. For instance,
							though they possessed the finest furs in abundance, they could not export any caps or
							hats to England or to any foreign country. They had iron ore in inexhaustible
							quantities at their disposal, but by a law of 1750 they were forbidden to erect any
							rolling mill or furnace for making steel, in order  that
							English steel manufacturers might enjoy a monopoly of that trade. The colonists had
							built up a lucrative lumber and provision trade with the French West Indies, from
							which they imported large quantities of rum, sugar, and molasses, but in order to keep
							this trade within British dominions, the importation of these commodities was
							forbidden.

						The colonists evade the English restrictions

						The colonists naturally evaded these laws as far as possible; they carried on a
							flourishing smuggling trade and built up industries in spite of them. Tobacco, sugar,
							hemp, flax, and cotton were grown and cloth was manufactured. Furnaces, foundries,
							nail and wire mills supplied pig and bar iron, chains, anchors, and other hardware. It
							is clear that where so many people were interested in both manufacturing and commerce
							a loud protest was sure to be raised against the continued attempts of England to
							restrict the business of the colonists in favor of her own merchants.

						Taxes withdrawn except that on tea

						Parliament withdrew the unpopular stamp tax, but declared that it had a perfect right
							to tax the colonies as well as to make laws for them. Soon new duties on glass, paper,
							and tea were imposed, and a board was established to secure a firm observance of the
							navigation laws and other restrictions. But the protests of the colonists finally
							moved Parliament to remove all the duties except that on tea, which was retained to
							prove England's right to tax the colonists and later used to benefit the English East
							India Company.

						Opposition to "taxation without representation"

						The effort to make the Americans pay a very moderate import duty on tea and to force
							upon Boston markets the company's tea at a low price produced trouble in 1773. The
							young men of Boston seditiously boarded a tea ship in the harbor and threw the cargo
							into the water.1 The objection
							of the Boston tea merchants who abetted this enterprise was not so much to the tax as
							to the competition with East India Company merchants which they had to meet. Burke,
							perhaps the most able 1 A
								contemporary account of the "tea party" is given in the Readings,
								Vol. I, pp. 130 ff.
							 member of the House of Commons, urged the ministry to
							leave the Americans to tax themselves, but George III, and Parliament as a whole,
							could not forgive the colonists for their opposition. They believed that the trouble
							was largely confined to New England and could easily be overcome. In 1774 acts were
							passed prohibiting the landing and shipping of goods at Boston; and the colony of
							Massachusetts was deprived of its former right to choose its judges and the members of
							the upper house of its legislature, who were thereafter to be selected by the
							king.

						The Continental Congress
						Declaration of Independence, July 4, 1776

						These measures, instead of bringing Massachusetts to terms, so roused the
							apprehension of the rest of the colonists that a congress of all the colonists was
							held at Philadelphia in 1774. This congress decided that all trade with Great Britain
							should cease until the grievances of the colonies had been redressed. The following
							year the Americans attacked the British troops at Lexington and made a brave stand
							against them in the battle of Bunker Hill. The second congress decided to prepare for
							war, and raised an army which was put under the command of George Washington, a
							Virginia planter who had gained some distinction in the late French and Indian War. Up
							to this time the colonies had not intended to secede from the mother country, but the
							proposed compromises came to nothing, and in July, 1776, Congress declared that "these
							United States are, and of right ought to be, free and independent."

						The United States seeks and receives aid from France

						This occurrence naturally excited great interest in France. The outcome of the Seven
							Years' War had been most lamentable for that country, and any trouble which came to
							her old enemy, England, could not but be a source of congratulation to the French. The
							United States therefore regarded France as their natural ally and immediately sent
							Benjamin Franklin to Versailles in the hope of obtaining the aid of the new French
							king, Louis XVI. The king's ministers were uncertain whether the colonies could long
							maintain their resistance against the overwhelming strength of the mother country. It
							was only after the Americans 
							 
							
							 had defeated Burgoyne at Saratoga that France, in
							1778, concluded a treaty with the United States in which the independence of the new
							republic was recognized. This was tantamount to declaring war upon England. The
							enthusiasm for the Americans was so great in France that a number of the younger
							nobles, the most conspicuous of whom was the Marquis of Lafayette, crossed the
							Atlantic to fight in the American army.

						Close of the war, 1783
						England acknowledges the independence of the United States

						In spite of the skill and heroic self-sacrifice of Washington, the Americans lost
							more battles than they gained. It is extremely doubtful whether they would have
							succeeded in bringing the war to a favorable close, by forcing the English general,
							Cornwallis, to capitulate at Yorktown (1781), had it not been for the aid of the
							French fleet.1 The chief result
							of the war was the recognition by England of the independence of the United States,
							whose territory was to extend to the Mississippi River. To the west of the Mississippi
							the vast territory of Louisiana still remained in the hands of Spain, as well as
							Florida, which England had held since 1763 but now gave back.

						Revolt of the English colonies the beginning of the emancipation of
							the western hemisphere

						Spain and Portugal were able to hold their American possessions a generation longer
							than the English, but in the end practically all of the western hemisphere, with the
							exception of Canada, completely freed itself from the domination of the European
							powers. Cuba, one of the very last vestiges of Spanish rule in the West, gained its
							independence with the aid of the United States in 1898.

						Results in Europe of wars between Treaty of Utrecht and Peace of
							Paris

						The results of the European wars during the seventy years which elapsed between the
							Treaty of Utrecht and the French Revolution may be summarized as follows. In the
							northeast two new powers, Russia and Prussia, had come into the European family of
							nations. Prussia had greatly extended her territory by gaining Silesia aid West
							Poland. She and Austria were, in the nineteenth century, to engage in a struggle for
							supremacy in Germany, which was to result in substituting the present German empire
							under the headship of the Hohenzollerns 1 Cornwallis's account of his surrender is given in the Readings, Vol. I, p. 135.
							 for the Holy Roman Empire, of which the House of
							Hapsburg had so long been the nominal chief.

						Origin of "eastern question"

						The power of the Sultan of Turkey was declining so rapidly that Austria and Russia
							were already considering the seizure of his European possessions. This presented a new
							problem to the European powers, which came to be known in the nineteenth century as
							the "eastern question." Were Austria and Russia permitted to aggrandize themselves by
							adding the Turkish territory to their possessions, it would gravely disturb the
							balance of power which England had so much at heart. So it came about that, from this
							time on, Turkey was admitted in a way to the family of western European nations, for
							it soon appeared that some of the states of western Europe were willing to form
							alliances with the Sultan, and even aid him directly in defending himself against his
							neighbors.

						England's colonial possessions

						England had lost her American colonies, and by her perverse policy had led to the
							creation of a sister state speaking her own language and destined to occupy the
							central part of the North American continent from the Atlantic to the Pacific. She
							still retained Canada, however, and in the nineteenth century added a new continent in
							the southern hemisphere, Australia, to her vast colonial empire. In India she had no
							further rivals among European nations, and gradually extended her influence over the
							whole region south of the Himalayas.

						English colonial policy

						It must not be thought, however, that the loss of the American colonies caused the
							British government to surrender at once its strict control over the affairs of the
							remaining domains. On the contrary, for a long time afterward the mother country kept
							a stricter watch than ever upon her distant provinces. As May points out: "In crown
							colonies-- acquired by conquest or cession-- the dominion of the crown was absolute;
							and the authority of the colonial office was exercised directly by instructions to the
							governors. In free colonies it was exercised, for the most part, indirectly through
							the influence of the governors and their councils. Self-government was there in
							theory;  but in practice the governors, aided by the
							dominant interests in the several colonies, contrived to govern according to the
							policy dictated from Downing Street." Nevertheless, as the spirit of local
							independence grew up in the colonies, this strict regime was relaxed, and open
							conflicts with colonists were avoided by British statesmen and ministers.

						France under Louis XV, 1715-1774

						As for France, she had played a rather pitiful rô1e during the long reign of Louis
							XIV's great-grandson, Louis XV (1715-1774). She had, however, been able to increase
							her territory by the addition of Lorraine (1766) and, in 1768, of the island of
							Corsica. A year later a child was born in the Corsican town of Ajaccio, who one day,
							by his genius, was to make France the center for a time of an empire rivaling that of
							Charlemagne in extent. When the nineteenth century opened France was no longer a
							monarchy, but a republic; and her armies were to occupy in turn every European
							capital, from Madrid to Moscow. In order to understand the marvelous transformations
							produced by the French Revolution and the wars of Napoleon, we must consider somewhat
							carefully the conditions in France which led to a great reform of her institutions in
							1789, and to the founding of a republic four years later.
					

					
						REFERENCES
								The Mohammedan Empire in India: HUNTER,
										A Brief History of the Indian Peoples, pp. 132-155; LYALL, Rise of British Dominion in India, pp.
									32-37, 50-53.
								Early Rivalry for the Indian Trade: LYALL, pp. 1-23 ; HUNTER, pp. 164-175.
								Dupleix and French Dominion in India: LYALL, pp. 59-84; PERKINS, France under
											Louis XV, Vol. I, pp. 379-430.
								The Seven Years' War in India: LYALL, pp.
									85-97; PERKINS, Vol. I, pp. 431-453.
								Clive and English Conquests in Bengal: LYALL, pp. 98-111, 130-136; HUNTER, pp. 176-186; COLBY, Selections from the Sources of English
										History, pp. 245-247; WILSON, Clive
									(English Men of Action Series).
								
								Warren Hastings as Governor General: LYALL, pp. 157-178; HUNTER, pp. 186-190; LYALL, Warren Hastings (English Men of Action
									Series).
								Early English Explorations in America: TYLER, England in America (American Nation Series), pp.
									1-33; THWAITES, The Colonies (Epochs of
									American History Series), chap. ii, pp. 21-44.
								The French in Canada: THWAITES, The Colonies, chap. xii, pp. 246-257; France in
											America (American Nation Series), pp. 124-142.
								Struggle between England and France: HART, Formation of the Union (Epochs of American History
									Series), pp. 22-41; THWAITES, France in
										America, pp. 157-280.
								British Colonial Policy: HART, pp. 44-63;
										HOWARD, Preliminaries of the Revolution
									(American Nation Series), pp. 22-67, 174-192; LEE, Source Book of English History, pp. 474-483.
								A Sketch of the American Revolution: HART, pp. 70-101.
					
				

				
					

					CHAPTER V
						THE EVE OF THE FRENCH REVOLUTION

					
						THE
							ANCIEN RÉGIME
							IN FRANCE

						How the French people accomplished reforms which had failed the
							benevolent despots

						17. The benevolent despots had not succeeded in ridding Europe of
							the old institutions and confusion which had come down from the Middle Ages,-- indeed,
							there were many things which they had no desire to change. Even in England little was
							done in the eighteenth century to meet the most reasonable demands of the reformers.
							But in 1789 the king of France asked his people to submit their grievances to him and
							to send representatives to Versailles to confer with him upon the state of the realm
							and the ways in which the government might be improved so as to increase the general
							happiness and the prosperity of the kingdom. And then the miracle happened ! The
							French National Assembly swept away the old abuses with an ease and thoroughness which
							put the petty reforms of the benevolent despots to shame. It accomplished more in a
							few months than the reforming kings had done in a century; for the kings had never
							dreamed of calling in their people to aid them. Instead of availing themselves of the
							great forces of the nation, they had tried to do everything alone by royal decrees,
							and so had failed.

						The real French Revolution not to be confused with the Reign of
							Terror

						The unique greatness of the reformation accomplished by the French Assembly is,
							however, often obscured by the disorder which accompanied it. When one meets the words
							"French Revolution," he is pretty sure to call up before his mind's eye the storming
							of the Bastille, the guillotine and its hundreds of victims, and the Paris mob
							shouting the hymn of the Marseillaise as they parade the streets with the heads of
							unfortunate "aristocrats" on their pikes. Every one has heard of this  terrible episode in French history, even if he knows
							practically nothing of the permanent good which was accomplished at the time. Indeed,
							it has made so deep an impression on posterity that the Reign of Terror is often
							mistaken for the real Revolution. It was, however, only a sequel to it, an unhappy
							accident which will seem less and less important as the years go on, while the
							achievements of the Revolution itself will loom larger and larger. The Reign of Terror
							will be explained and described in good time, but it is a matter of far greater
							importance to understand clearly how the fundamental and permanent reforms were
							wrought out, and how France won the proud distinction of being the first nation to do
							away with the absurd and vexatious institutions which weighed upon Europe in the
							eighteenth century.

						Meaning of the term Ancien Régime

						We have already examined these institutions which were common to most of the European
							countries,-- despotic kings, arbitrary imprisonment, unfair taxation, censorship of
							the press, serfdom, feudal dues, friction between Church and State,-- all of which the
							reformers had been busy denouncing as contrary to reason and humanity, and some of
							which the benevolent despots and their ministers had, in a half-hearted way, attempted
							to remedy. The various relics of bygone times and of outlived conditions which the
							Revolution abolished forever are commonly called in France the Ancien
								Régime (the old system). In order to see why France took the lead of other
							European countries in modernizing itself, it is necessary to examine somewhat
							carefully the particular causes of discontent there. We shall then see how almost
							every one, from the king to the peasant, came to realize that the old system was bad
							and consequently resolved to do away with it and substitute a more rational plan of
							government for the long-standing disorder.

						France not a well-organized state in the eighteenth century

						Of the evils which the Revolution abolished, none was more important than the
							confusion due to the fact that France was not in the eighteenth century a
							well-organized, homogeneous  state whose citizens all
							enjoyed the same rights and privileges. A long line of kings had patched it together,
							adding bit by bit as they could. By conquest and bargain, by marrying heiresses, and
							through the extinction of the feudal dynasties, the original restricted domains of
							Hugh Capet about Paris and Orleans had been gradually increased by his descendants. We
							have seen how Louis XIV gained Alsace and Strassburg and some towns on the borders of
							the Spanish Netherlands, how Louis XV added Lorraine on the death of his father-in-law
							in 1766. Two years later the island of Corsica was ceded to France by Genoa. So when
							Louis XVI came to the throne in 1774 he found himself ruler of practically the whole
							territory which makes up France to-day.

						The old provinces of France

						Some of the districts which the kings of France brought under their sway, like
							Languedoc, Provence, Brittany, and Dauphiny, were considerable states in themselves,
							each with its own laws, customs, and system of government. When these provinces had
							come, at different times, into the possession of the king of France, he had not
							changed their laws so as to make them correspond with those of his other domains. He
							was satisfied if a new province paid its due share of the taxes and treated his
							officials with respect. In some cases the provinces retained their local assemblies,
							and controlled, to a certain extent, their own affairs. The provinces into which
							France was divided before the Revolution were not, therefore, merely artificial
							divisions created for the purposes of administrative convenience, like the modern
							French departments,1 but
							represented real historical differences.

						Various systems of law

						While in a considerable portion of southern France the Roman law still prevailed, in
							the central parts and in the west and north there were no less than two hundred and
							eighty-five different local codes of law in force; so that one who moved from his own
							to a neighboring town might find a wholly unfamiliar legal system.

						1 See
								below, p. 122.

						

						Interior customs lines

						Neither was France commercially a single state. The chief customs duties were not
							collected upon goods as they entered French territory from a foreign country; for the
							customs lines lay within France itself, so that the central provinces about Paris were
							cut off from the outlying ones as from a foreign 
								The Provinces of France in the Eighteenth Century, showing
										Interior Customs Lines
							 land. A merchant of Bordeaux sending goods to Paris would have to see that
							the duties were paid on them as they passed the customs line, and, conversely, a
							merchant of Paris would have to pay a like duty on commodities sent to places without
							the line.

						Inequalities of taxation illustrated by the salt tax

						The monstrous inequalities in levying one of the oldest and heaviest of the taxes,
							i.e. the salt tax, still better illustrate  the strange
							disorder that existed in France in the eighteenth century. The government collected
							this form of revenue by monopolizing the sale of salt and then charging a high price
							for it. There would have been nothing remarkable in this had the same price been
							charged everywhere, but as it was, the 
								Map showing the Amount paid in the Eighteenth Century for
										Salt in Various Parts of France1
							 people in one town might be forced to pay thirty times as much as their
							neighbors in an adjacent district. The accompanying map shows how arbitrarily France
							was divided. To take a single example : in the city of Dijon a certain amount of salt
							cost seven francs; a few miles to the east, on entering 1 The figures indicate the
									various prices of a given amount of salt.
							 Franche-Comté, one had to pay for the same amount
							twenty-five francs; a little to the north, fifty-eight francs; to the south, in the
							region of the little salt tax, twenty-eight francs; while still farther off, in Gex,
							there was no tax whatever. The government had to go to great expense to guard the
							boundary lines between the various districts, for there was every inducement to
							smugglers to carry salt from those parts of the country where it was cheap into the
							land of the great salt tax.

						The privileged classes

						Besides these unfortunate local differences, there were class differences which
							caused great discontent. All Frenchmen did not enjoy the same rights as citizens. Two
							small but very important classes, the nobility and the clergy, were treated
							differently by the State from the rest of the people. They did not have to pay one of
							the heaviest of the taxes, the notorious taille; and on one ground
							or another they escaped other burdens which the rest of the citizens bore. For
							instance, they were not required to serve in the militia or help build the roads.

						The Church

						We have seen how great and powerful the medieval Church was. In France, as in other
							Catholic countries of Europe, it still retained in the eighteenth century a
							considerable part of the power that it had possessed in the thirteenth, and it still
							performed important public functions. It took charge of education and of the relief of
							the sick and the poor. It was very wealthy and is supposed to have owned one fifth of
							all the land in France. The clergy claimed that their property, being dedicated to
							God, was not subject to taxation. They consented, however, to help the king from time
							to time by a "free gift," as they called it. The Church still collected the tithes
							from the people, and its vast possessions made it very independent. It will be
							remembered that those who did not call themselves Roman Catholics were excluded from
							some of the most important rights of citizenship. Since the revocation of the Edict of
							Nantes no Protestant could be legally married, or have the births of his children
							registered, or make a legal will.

						

						The clergy

						A great part of the enormous income of the Church went to the higher clergy,-- the
							bishops, archbishops, and abbots. Since these were appointed by the king,1 often from among his courtiers,
							they paid but little attention to their duties as officers of the Church and were
							generally nothing more than "great lords with a hundred thousand francs income." While
							they amused themselves at Versailles the real work was performed-- and well
							performed-- by the lower clergy, who often received scarcely enough to keep soul and
							body together. This explains why, when the Revolution began, the parish priests sided
							with the people instead of with their ecclesiastical superiors.

						The privileges of the nobility

						The privileges of the nobles, like those of the clergy, had originated in the
							mediaeval conditions described in an earlier chapter.2 A detailed study of their rights would reveal many
							survivals of the institutions which prevailed in the eleventh and twelfth centuries,
							when the great majority of the people were serfs living upon the manors. While serfdom
							had largely disappeared in France long before the eighteenth century, and the peasants
							were generally free men who owned or rented their land, it was still the theory of the
							French law that there was "no land without its lord." Consequently the lords still
							enjoyed the right to collect a variety of time-honored dues from the inhabitants
							living within the limits of the former manors.

						The feudal dues

						The privileges and dues enjoyed by the nobles varied greatly in different parts of
							France. It was quite common for the noble landowner to have a right to a certain
							portion of the peasant's crops; occasionally he could still collect a toll on sheep
							and cattle driven past his house. In some cases the lord maintained, as he had done in
							the Middle Ages, the only mill, wine press, or oven within a certain district, and
							could require every 1
								According to the agreement made by Francis I with the Pope in 1516. See Development of Modern Europe, Vol. I, p. 141.
							2 See above, sect.
								3.
							 one to make use of these and pay him a share of the
							product. Even when a peasant owned his land, the neighboring lord usually had the
							right to exact one fifth of its value every time it was sold.

						The hunting rights

						The nobles, too, enjoyed the exclusive privilege of hunting, which was deemed an
							aristocratic pastime. The game which they preserved for their amusement often did
							great damage to the crops of the peasants, who were forbidden to interfere with hares
							and deer. Many of the manors had great pigeon houses, built in the form of a tower, in
							which there were one or two thousand nests. No wonder the peasants detested these, for
							they were not permitted to protect themselves against the innumerable pigeons and
							their progeny, which spread over the fields devouring newly sown seed. These dovecotes
							constituted, in fact, one of the chief grievances of the peasants.

						Offices at court and in the Church and army reserved for
							nobles

						The higher offices in the army were reserved for the nobles, as well as the easiest
							and most lucrative places in the Church and about the king's person. All these
							privileges were vestiges of the powers which the nobles had enjoyed when they ruled
							their estates as feudal lords. Louis XIV had, as we know, induced them to leave their
							domains and gather round him at Versailles, where all who could afford it lived for at
							least a part of the year.

						Only a small part of the nobles belonged to old families

						Only a small part of the nobility in the eighteenth century were, however,
							descendants of the ancient and illustrious feudal families of France. The greater part
							of them had been ennobled in recent times by the king, or had purchased or inherited a
							government office or judgeship which carried the privileges of nobility with it. This
							fact rendered the rights and exemptions claimed by the nobility even more odious to
							the people at large than they would otherwise have been.

						The third estate

						Everybody who did not belong to either the clergy or nobility was regarded as being
							of the third estate. The third estate was therefore nothing more than the nation at
							large, which was made up in 1789 of about twenty-five million souls. The  privileged classes can scarcely have counted altogether
							more than two hundred or two hundred and fifty thousand individuals. A great part of
							the third estate lived in the country and tilled the soil. Most historians have been
							inclined to make out their condition as very wretched. They were certainly oppressed
							by an abominable system of taxation and were irritated by the dues which they had to
							pay to the lords. They also suffered frequently from local famines. Yet there is no
							doubt that the evils of their situation have been greatly exaggerated. When Thomas
							Jefferson traveled through France in 1787 he reports that the country people appeared
							to be comfortable and that they had plenty to eat. Arthur Young, a famous English
							traveler who has left us an admirable account of his journeys in France during the
							years 1787 and 1789, found much prosperity and contentment, although he gives, too,
							some forlorn pictures of destitution.

						Favorable situation of the peasant in France compared with other
							countries
						Rapid increase of population in the eighteenth century

						The latter have often been unduly emphasized by historical writers; for it has
							commonly been thought that the Revolution was to be explained by the misery and
							despair of the people, who could bear their burdens no longer. If, however, instead of
							comparing the situation of the French peasant under the old regime with that of an
							English or American farmer to-day, we contrast his position with that of his
							fellow-peasant in Prussia, Russia, Austria, Italy, or Spain, in the eighteenth
							century, it will be clear that in France the agricultural classes were really much
							better off than elsewhere on the Continent. In almost all the other European
							countries, except England, the peasants were still serfs : they had to work certain
							days in each week for their lord; they could not marry or dispose of their land
							without his permission. Moreover the fact that the population of France had steadily
							increased from seventeen millions after the close of the wars of Louis XIV to about
							twenty-five millions at the opening of the Revolution, indicates that the general
							condition of the people was improving rather than growing worse.

						

						Popular discontent, not the exceptionally miserable condition of the
							French people, accounts for the Revolution

						The real reason why France was the first among the European countries to carry out a
							great reform and do away with the irritating survivals of feudalism was not that the
							nation was miserable and oppressed above all others, but that it was sufficiently free
							and enlightened to realize the evils and absurdities of the old regime. Mere
							oppression and misery does not account for a revolution; there must also be active discontent; and of that there was a great abundance in France, as we
							shall see. The French peasant no longer looked up to his lord as his ruler and
							protector, but viewed him as a sort of legalized robber who demanded a share of his
							precious harvest, whose officers awaited the farmer at the crossing of the river to
							claim a toll, who would not let him sell his produce when he wished, or permit him to
							protect his fields from the ravages of the pigeons which it pleased his lord to
							keep.

						France still a despotism in the eighteenth century

						In the eighteenth century France was still the despotism that Louis XIV had made it.
							Louis XVI once described it very well in the following words: "The sovereign authority
							resides exclusively in my person. To me solely belongs the power of making the laws,
							and without dependence or coöperation. The entire public order emanates from me, and I
							am its supreme protector. My people are one with me. The rights and interests of the
							nation are necessarily identical with mine and rest solely in my hands." In short, the
							king still ruled "by the grace of God," as Louis XIV had done. He needed to render
							account to no man for his governmental acts; he was responsible to God alone. The
							following illustrations will make clear the dangerous extent of the king's power.

						The king's control of the government funds

						In the first place, it was he who levied each year the heaviest of the taxes, the
							hated taille, from which the privileged classes were exempted. This
							tax brought in about one sixth of the whole revenue of the State. The amount collected
							was kept secret, and no report was made to the nation of what was done with it or, for
							that matter, with any other part of the  king's income.
							Indeed no distinction was made between the king's private funds and the State
							treasury, whereas in England the monarch was given a stated allowance. The king of
							France could issue as many drafts payable to bearer as he wished; the royal officials
							must pay all such orders and ask no questions. Louis XV is said to have spent no less
							than seventy million dollars in this irresponsible fashion in a single year.

						Lettres de cachet

						But the king not only controlled his subjects' purses; he had a terrible authority
							over their persons as well. He could issue orders for the arrest and arbitrary
							imprisonment of any one he pleased. Without trial or formality of any sort a person
							might be cast into a dungeon for an indefinite period, until the king happened to
							remember him again or was reminded of him by the poor man's friends. These notorious
							orders of arrest were called lettres de cachet, i.e. sealed letters.
							They were not difficult to obtain for any one who had influence with the king or his
							favorites, and they furnished a particularly easy and efficacious way of disposing of
							an enemy. These arbitrary orders lead one to appreciate the importance of the
							provision of Magna Carta which runs: "No freeman shall be taken or imprisoned except
							by the lawful judgment of his peers and in accordance with the law of the land." Some
							of the most eminent men of the time were shut up by the king's order, often on account
							of books or pamphlets written by them which displeased the king or those about him.
							The distinguished statesman, Mirabeau, when a young man, was imprisoned several times
							through lettres de cachet obtained by his father as a means of
							checking his reckless dissipation.

						Limitations on the power of the French king

						Yet, notwithstanding the seemingly unlimited powers of the French king, and in spite
							of the fact that France had no written constitution and no legislative body to which
							the nation sent representatives, the monarch was by no means absolutely free to do
							just as he pleased. He had not the time nor inclination to carry on personally the
							government of twenty-five million subjects, and he necessarily, and willingly, left
							much of the  work to his ministers and the numerous
							public officials, who were bound to obey the laws and regulations established for
							their control and guidance.

						The parlements and their protests

						Next to the king's council the most important governmental bodies were the higher
							courts of law, the parlements. These resembled the English
							Parliament in almost nothing but name. The French parlements-- of
							which the most important one was at Paris and a dozen more were scattered about the
							provinces-- did not, however, confine themselves solely to the business of trying
							lawsuits. They claimed, and quite properly, that when the king decided to make a new
							law he must send it to them to be registered, for how, otherwise, could they adjust
							their decisions to it? Now although they acknowledged that the right to make the laws
							belonged to the monarch, they nevertheless often sent a "protest" to the king instead
							of registering an edict which they disapproved. They would urge that the ministers had
							abused his Majesty's confidence. They would also take pains to have their protest
							printed and sold on the streets at a penny or two a copy, so that people should get
							the idea that the parlement was defending the nation against the
							oppressive measures of the king's ministers.

						When the king received one of these protests two alternatives were open to him. He
							might recall the distasteful decree altogether, or modify it so as to suit the court;
							or he could summon the parlement before him and in a solemn session
							(called a lit de justice) command it with his own mouth to register
							the law in its records. The parlement would then reluctantly obey;
							but as the Revolution approached it began to claim that a decree registered against
							its will was not valid.

						The parlements help to prepare the way for the
							Revolution

						Struggles between the parlements and the king's ministers were very
							frequent in the eighteenth century. They prepared the way for the Revolution, first,
							by bringing important questions to the attention of the people; for there were no
							newspapers, and no parliamentary or congressional debates, to enable the  public to understand the policy of the government.
							Secondly, the 5arlements not only frankly criticised the proposed measures of the king
							and his ministers, but they familiarized the nation with the idea that the king was
							not really at liberty to alter what they called "the fundamental laws" of the State.
							By this they meant that there was an unwritten constitution, which limited the king's
							power and of which they were the guardians. In this way they promoted the growing
							discontent with a government which was carried on in secret, and which left the nation
							at the mercy of the men in whom the king might for the moment repose confidence.

						Public opinion

						It is a great mistake to suppose that public opinion did not exercise a powerful
							check upon the king, even under the autocratic old regime. It was, as one of Louis
							XVI's ministers declared, "an invisible power which, without treasury, guards, or an
							army, ruled Paris and the court,-- yes, the very palace of the king." The latter half
							of the eighteenth century was a period of outspoken and acrid criticism of the whole
							existing social and governmental system. Reformers, among whom many of the king's
							ministers were counted, loudly and eloquently discussed the numerous abuses and the
							vicious character of the government, which gradually came to seem just as bad to the
							people of that day as it does to us now.

						Attempts to check the discussion of public questions

						Although there were no daily newspapers to discuss public questions, large numbers of
							pamphlets were written and circulated by individuals whenever there was an important
							crisis, and they answered much the same purpose as the editorials in a modern
							newspaper. We have already seen how French philosophers and reformers, like Voltaire,
							Diderot, and Montesquieu, had been encouraged by the freedom of speech which prevailed
							in England, and how industriously they had sown the seeds of discontent in their own
							country. We have seen how in popular works, in poems and stories and plays, and above
							all in the Encyclopedia, they explained the new scientific
							discoveries, attacked the old beliefs and misapprehensions, and  encouraged progress. Only the most ignorant could escape their influence
							altogether.

						The censorship of the press serves to advertise the reformers

						Sometimes the pamphlets and books treated the government, the clergy, or the Catholic
							religion with such open contempt that either the king, or the clergy, or the courts
							felt it necessary to prevent their circulation. The parlement of Paris now and then
							ordered some offensive writing, such as Diderot's Philosophic Thoughts,
								Voltaire's Handy Philosophic Dictionary, certain of Rousseau's works, pamphlets
							defending the Jesuits, etc., to be burned by the common hangman. The authors, if they
							could be discovered, were in some cases imprisoned, and the printers and publishers
							fined or banished, but in general the courts satisfied themselves with suppressing the
							books and pamphlets of which they disapproved. But the attempted suppression only
							advertised the attacks upon existing abuses, which followed one another in rapid
							succession. The efforts of the government and the clergy to check free discussion
							seemed an outrage to the more thoughtful among the citizens, and so rather promoted
							than prevented the consideration of the weaknesses of the Church and of the king's
							government.

						Economists argue against government restrictions on trade and
							manufacture

						The economists exposed and brought home to the people the many evils of which their
							new science took note. The unjust system of taxation, which tended to exempt the
							richer classes from their fair share of the public burdens; the wasteful and
							irritating methods of collecting the taxes; the interior customs lines, preventing the
							easy passage of goods from one part of France to another; the extravagance of the
							king's household; the pensions granted to undeserving persons; every evil of the
							bungling, iniquitous old regime was brought under the scrutiny of the new thinkers,
							who tested the existing system by the light of reason and the welfare of the great
							mass of the people.

						The French government, as has already been explained, had been in the habit of
							regulating manufactures with the hope of maintaining a standard which would insure
							large and regular  sales in foreign lands and in this
							way bring money into France. Governmental officials watched those who handled grain,
							forbade them to accumulate wheat, barley, rye, or bread stuffs, or to make any sales
							except in the public markets, and required them to report all their transactions to
							the government. The economists were flatly opposed to this system of regulation. They
							pointed out that these government restrictions produced some very bad results. They
							failed to prevent famine, and, in the case of industry, they discouraged new
							inventions and the adoption of better methods. The economists claimed that it would be
							far better to leave the manufacturer to carry on his business in his own way.1
					

					
						HOW LOUIS XVI TRIED TO PLAY THE BENEVOLENT DESPOT

						Death of Louis SV and the accession of Louis XVI (1774)

						18. In 1774 Louis XV died, after a disgraceful reign of which it
							has not seemed necessary to say much. His unsuccessful wars, which had ended with the
							loss of all his American possessions and the victory of his enemies in India, had
							brought France to the verge of bankruptcy; indeed in his last years his ministers
							repudiated a portion of the government's obligations. The taxes were already so
							oppressive as to arouse universal discontent and yet the government was running behind
							seventy millions of dollars a year. The king's personal conduct was scandalous, and he
							allowed his mistresses and courtiers to meddle in public affairs and plunder the royal
							treasury for themselves and their favorites. When at last he was carried off by
							smallpox every one hailed, with hopes of better times, the accession of his grandson
							and successor, Louis XVI.

						Character of Louis XVI

						The new king was but twenty years old, ill educated, indolent, unsociable, and very
							fond of hunting and of pottering about in a workshop where he spent his happiest
							hours. He was a well-meaning young man, with none of his grandfather's 1 See
									above, pp. 35
									sqq.
							 vices, who tried now and then to attend to the
							disagreeable business of government, and would gladly have made his people happy if
							that had not required more energy than he possessed. He had none of the restless
							interest in public affairs that we found in Frederick the Great, Catharine II, or his
							brother-in-law, Joseph II; he was never tempted to rise at five o'clock in the morning
							in order to read State papers.

						Marie Antoinette

						His wife was the beautiful Marie Antoinette, daughter of Maria Theresa. The marriage
							had been arranged in 1770 with a view of maintaining the alliance which had been
							concluded between France and Austria in 1756. The queen was only nineteen years old
							when she came to the throne, light-hearted and on pleasure bent. She disliked the
							formal etiquette of the court at Versailles and shocked people by her thoughtless
							pranks. She rather despised her heavy husband, who did not care to share in the
							amusements which pleased her best. She did not hesitate to interfere in the government
							when she wished to help one of her favorites or to make trouble for some one she
							disliked.

						Turgot, controller general (1774-1776)

						At first Louis XVI took his duties very seriously. It seemed for a time that he might
							find a place among the benevolent despots who were then ruling in Europe. He almost
							immediately placed the ablest of all the French economists, Turgot, in the most
							important of the government offices, that of controller general. Turgot was an
							experienced government official as well as a scholar. For thirteen years he had been
							the king's representative in Limoges, one of the least prosperous portions of France.
							There he had had ample opportunity to see the vices of the prevailing system of
							taxation. He had made every effort to induce the government to better its methods, and
							had tried to familiarize the people with the principles of political economy.
							Consequently, when he was put in charge of the nation's finances, it seemed as if he
							and the conscientious young king might find some remedy for the recognized abuses.

						

						Turgot advocates economy

						The first and most natural measure was economy, for only in that way could the
							government be saved from bankruptcy and the burden of taxation be lightened. Turgot
							felt that the vast amount spent in maintaining the luxury of the royal court at
							Versailles should be reduced. The establishments of the king, the queen, and the
							princes of the blood royal cost the State annually toward twelve million dollars. Then
							the French king had long been accustomed to grant "pensions" in a reckless manner to
							his favorites, and this required nearly twelve million dollars more.

						How the courtiers governed France

						Any attempt, however, to reduce this amount would arouse the immediate opposition of
							the courtiers, and it was the courtiers who really governed France. They had every
							opportunity to influence the king's mind against a man whose economies they disliked.
							They were constantly about the monarch from the moment when he awoke in the morning
							until he went to bed at night; therefore they had an obvious advantage over the
							controller general, who only saw him in business hours.1

						Turgot frees the grain trade and endeavors to teach political economy
							to the people

						Immediately upon coming into power Turgot removed a great part of the restrictions on
							the grain trade. He prefaced the edict with a very frank denunciation of the
							government's traditional policy of preventing persons from buying and selling their
							grain when and where they wished. He showed that this did not obviate famines, as the
							government hoped that it might, and that it caused great loss and hardship. If the
							government would only let matters alone the grain would always go to those provinces
							where it was most needed, for there it would bring the best price. Turgot seized this
							and every similar opportunity to impress important economic truths upon the minds of
							the people.

						Turgot abolishes the guilds

						Early in 1776 Turgot brought forward two edicts which could not fail to rouse much
							opposition. The first of these abolished the guilds,which he declared exercised "a
							vast tyranny 1 See Turgot's letter to the king, August, 1774, in Readings, sect. 33.
							 over trade and industry." In almost all the towns the
							various trades of the baker, tailor, barber, swordmaker, hatter, cooper, and all the
							rest, were each in the hands of a small number of masters who formed a union to keep
							every one else out, and who made such rules as they pleased about the way in which the
							trade should be conducted. Sometimes only the sons of masters or those who married
							masters' widows would be permitted to carry on a trade. Employers could not select the
							workmen they wished. "Often," Turgot declared, "one cannot get the simplest job done
							without having it go through the hands of several workmen of different guilds and
							without suffering the delays, tricks, and exactions which the pretensions of the
							various guilds encourage." The king, therefore, ordered that "it shall be free to all
							persons of whatever quality or condition they may be, even to all foreigners, to
							exercise in all our kingdom, and particularly in our good city of Paris, whatever
							profession or industry may seem good to them." All the guilds were abolished, in spite
							of those who declared that industry would be ruined as soon as everybody was free to
							open a shop and offer his goods to the public.

						Turgot abolishes the corvéeand so attacks the
							privileges of the clergy and the nobility

						At the same time Turgot proposed an even more important reform. The government had
							been accustomed to build and repair the public roads, forcing the peasants to bring
							out their horses and carts and work for a certain time every year with out
							remuneration. This was of course a form of taxation and was known as the corvée. Turgot held that the peasants should not be required to bear this
							burden and proposed to substitute for it a tax to be paid by the landholders. Both the
							clergy and nobility hotly opposed this reform on the ground that their privileges
							exempted them from the corvée, which was an ignoble exaction which
							could fall only upon a peasant. Turgot confessed that his main aim was to begin a
							great reform of the vicious system of taxation which exempted the privileged classes
							from the corvée, the taille, and other
							contributions which should be borne by everybody according to his capacity.

						

						Turgot's enemies

						Turgot forced the parlement of Paris to register these edicts; but he had become very
							unpopular, for each one of his reforms injured a particular class who thereafter
							became his enemies. The nobles disliked him for substituting the land tax, which fell
							upon them, for the corvée, which only the peasants had borne. The
							clergy believed him a wicked philosopher, for it was known that he had urged the pious
							Louis XVI, when he took his coronation oath, to omit the pledge to extirpate heresy
							from his realms. The tradespeople hated him for doing away with the guilds.

						Turgot's position

						An Italian economist, when he heard of Turgot's appointment, wrote to a friend in
							France: "So Turgot is controller general! He will not remain in office long enough to
							carry out his plans. He will punish some scoundrels; he will bluster about and lose
							his temper; he will be anxious to do good, but will run against obstacles and rogues
							at every turn. Public credit will fall; he will be detested; it will be said that he
							is not fitted for his task. Enthusiasm will cool; he will retire or be sent off, and
							we shall have a new proof of the mistake of filling a position like his in a monarchy
							like yours with an upright man and a philosopher."

						Turgot dismissed, May 1776

						The Italian could not have made a more accurate statement of the case had he waited
							until after the dismissal of Turgot, which took place in May, 1776, much to the
							satisfaction of the court. The king, although upright and well-intentioned, was not
							fond of the governmental duties to which Turgot was always calling his attention. It
							was much easier to let things go along in the old way; for reforms not only required
							much extra work, but they also forced him to refuse the customary favors to those
							around him. It was not perhaps unnatural that the discontent of his young queen or of
							an intimate companion should outweigh the woes of the distant peasant.

						Turgot's plan for local assemblies

						Although the privileged classes, especially the courtiers who had the king's ear and
							the conservative lawyers in the parlements, prevented Turgot from
							carrying out the extensive  reforms that he had in mind,
							and even induced the king to restore the guilds and to continue the corvée, Turgot's administration nevertheless forwarded the French Revolution.
							In the preambles to his edicts he carefully explained the nature of the abuses which
							the king was trying to remedy and so strove to enlist the sympathy of the public. He
							proposed that the king should form local assemblies to help him in the government, as
							otherwise too much power was left in the hands of the king's officials. In short,
							while Turgot was quite satisfied to have a benevolent despot in France so long as the
							king allowed himself to be led along the path of reform by a wise philosopher and
							economist, he was anxious to encourage public interest in the policy of the
							government, and believed it essential to have the people's representatives help in
							assessing the taxes and in managing local affairs.

						Necker succeeds Turgot
						Necker's financial report

						Necker, who, after a brief interval, succeeded Turgot, also contributed to the
							progress of the coming Revolution in two ways. He borrowed vast sums of money in order
							to carry on the war which France, as the ally of the United States, had undertaken
							against England. This greatly embarrassed the treasury later and helped to produce the
							financial crisis which was the immediate cause of the Revolution. Secondly, he gave
							the nation its first opportunity of learning what was done with the public funds by
							presenting to the king (February, 1781) a report on the financial
							condition of the kingdom which was publicly printed and eagerly read. There the people
							could see for the first time how much the taille and the salt tax
							actually took from them, and how much the king spent on himself and his favorites.

						Calonne, controller general (1783-1787)
						Calonne informs the king that France is on the verge of bankruptcy,
							August, 1786

						Necker was soon followed by Calonne, who may be said to have precipitated the
							momentous reform which constitutes the French Revolution. He was very popular at first
							with king and courtiers, for he spent the public funds far more recklessly than his
							predecessors. But naturally he soon found himself in a position where he could obtain
							no more money. The 
							parlements would consent to no more loans in a period of peace, and
							the taxes were as high as it was deemed possible to make them. At last Calonne,
							finding himself desperately put to it, informed the astonished king that the State was
							on the verge of bankruptcy, and that in order to save it a radical reformation of "the
							whole public order" was necessary. This report of Calonne's may be taken as the
							beginning of the French Revolution, for it was the first of the series of events that
							led to the calling of a representative assembly which abolished the old regime and
							gave France a written constitution.
					

					

						REFERENCES
								The Government of Louis XVI: LOWELL, The Eve of the French Revolution, pp.4-24; Cambridge
										Modern History, Vol. VIII, chap. ii, pp. 36-65 ; MATHEWS, The French Revolution, pp. 1-11.
								Taxation and Finance: LOWELL, pp.
									207-242; Cambridge Modern History, Vol. VIII, chap. iii, pp.
									66-78.
								Agitation by Pamphlets: LOWELL, pp.
									322-341.
								Lettres de Cachet: PERKINS, France under Louis XV, Vol. II, pp. 352-358.
								Turgot and Necker: MATHEWS, pp. 92-101;
										Cambridge Modern History, Vol. VIII, chap. iii, pp. 66-78;
										HASSALL, Balance of Power, pp. 405-412;
										SAY, Turgot (Great French Writers
									Series).
								Early Years of Louis XVI's Reign: HASSALL, pp. 401-424; Cambridge Modern History, Vol. VIII,
									chap. iv, pp. 79-98.
					
				

				
					

					CHAPTER VI
						THE FRENCH REVOLUTION

					
						HOW THE ESTATES GENERAL WERE SUMMONED IN 1789

						Reforms proposed by Calonne

						19. Calonne claimed that it was necessary, in order to avoid ruin,
							"to reform everything vicious in the State." He proposed, therefore, to reduce the
							taille, reform the salt tax, do away with the interior customs lines, correct the
							abuses of the guilds, etc. But the chief reform, and by far the most difficult one,
							was to force the privileged classes to surrender their important exemptions from
							taxation. He hoped that if certain concessions were made to them they might be brought
							to consent to a land tax which should be levied on the nobility and clergy as well as
							on the third estate. So he proposed to the king that he should summon an assembly of
							persons prominent in Church and State, called "Notables," to ratify certain changes
							which would increase the prosperity of the country and bring money enough into the
							treasury to meet the necessary expenses.

						Summoning of the Notables, 1786

						The summoning of the Notables late in 1786 was really a revolution in itself. It was
							a confession on the part of the king that he found himself in a predicament from which
							he could not escape without the aid of his people. The Notables whom he selected
							-bishops, archbishops, dukes, judges, high government officials-- were practically all
							members of the privileged classes; but they still represented the nation, after a
							fashion, as distinguished from the king's immediate circle of courtiers.

						Calonne denounces the abuses (February 22, 1787)

						In his opening address Calonne gave the Notables an idea of the sad financial
							condition of the country. The government  was running
							behind some forty million dollars a year. He could not continue to borrow, and
							economy, however strict, would not suffice to cover the deficit. "What, then,", he
							asked, "remains to fill this frightful void and enable us to raise the revenue to the
							desired level? The Abuses! Yes, gentlemen, the abuses offer a source
							of wealth which the State should appropriate, and which should serve to reëstablish
							order in the finances.... Those abuses which must now be destroyed for the welfare of
							the people are the most important and the best guarded of all, the very ones which
							have the deepest roots and the most spreading branches. For example, those which weigh
							on the laboring classes, the pecuniary privileges, exceptions to the law which should
							be common to all, and many an unjust exemption which can only relieve certain
							taxpayers by embittering the conditions of others; the general want of uniformity in
							the assessment of the taxes and the enormous difference which exists between the
							contributions of different provinces and of the subjects of the same sovereign; the
							severity and arbitrariness in the collection of the taille ; the apprehension,
							embarrassment, almost dishonor, associated with the trade in breadstuffs; the interior
							customhouses and barriers which make the various parts of the kingdom like foreign
							countries to one another... ,"-- all these evils, which public-spirited citizens had
							long deprecated, Calonne proposed to do away with forthwith.

						Calonne and the Notables dismissed

						The Notables, however, had no confidence in Calonne; most of them were determined not
							to give up their privileges, and they refused to ratify his program of reform. The
							king then dismissed Calonne and soon sent the Notables home, too (May, 1787). He then
							attempted to carry through some of the more pressing financial reforms in the usual
							way by drawing up edicts and sending them to the parlements to be
							registered.

						The parlement of Paris refuses to register new
							taxes and calls for the Estates General

						The parlement of Paris resolved, as usual, to make the king's
							ministry trouble and gain popularity for itself. This 
							time it resorted to a truly extraordinary measure. It not only refused to register two
							new taxes which the king desired, but asserted that Only the nation
								assembled in the Estates General can give the consent necessary to the establishment
								of a permanent tax." "Only the nation," the parlement
							continued, "after it has learned the true state of the finances, can destroy the great
							abuses and open up important resources." This declaration was followed in a few days
							by the respectful request that the king assemble the Estates General of his
							kingdom.

						The refusal of the parlement to register the new taxes led to one
							of the old struggles between it and the king's ministers. A compromise was arranged in
							the autumn of 1787; the parlement agreed to register a great loan,
							and the king pledged himself to assemble the Estates General within five years. During
							the early months of 1788 a flood of pamphlets appeared, criticising the system of
							taxation and the unjust privileges and exemptions enjoyed by a few citizens to the
							detriment of the great mass of the nation.

						The parlement of Paris protests against the
							"reform" of the judicial system

						Suddenly the parlement of Paris learned that the king's ministers were planning to
							put an end to its troublesome habit of opposing their measures. They proposed to
							remodel the whole judicial system and take from the parlement the
							right to register new decrees and consequently the right to protest. This the parlement loudly proclaimed was in reality a blow at the nation
							itself. The ministers were attacking it simply because it had acknowledged its lack of
							power to grant new taxes and had requested the king to assemble the representatives of
							the nation. The ministers, it claimed, were bent upon establishing an out-and-out
							despotism in which there should no longer be any check whatever on the arbitrary power
							of the king.

						The parlement of Paris draws up a Declaration of
							Rights (May, 1788)

						The parlement had long been wont to refer to certain "fundamental
							laws" which formed a sort of unwritten constitution limiting the powers of the king.
							It now ventured to  formulate some of these : (1) the
							right of the nation to grant all taxes voluntarily through their representatives in
							the Estates General; (2) the right of the provinces which had been annexed to France
							to retain all the liberties which the king had guaranteed to them when they came under
							his rule; and the right of the local parlement in each of these
							provinces to examine every edict of the king and refuse to register it if it did not
							conform to the constitutional laws of the province, or violated its rights; (3) the
							right of the judges to retain their offices no matter how anxious the king might be to
							dismiss them; (4) the right of every citizen, if arrested, to be brought immediately
							before a competent court and only to be tried by the regular judges.

						The provinces of France support the parlements

						This was a very poor and inadequate sketch of a constitution, but it was a definite
							protest against allowing the king to become an absolute and uncontrolled despot.
							According to the new edicts against which the parlement of Paris
							protested, tyrannical ministers might freely make new laws for the whole realm and
							completely ignore the special privileges which the king had pledged himself to
							maintain when Languedoc, Provence, Dauphiny, Brittany, Béarn, Navarre, and other
							important provinces had originally been added to his kingdom. The cause of the parlements seemed the cause of the nation, and their protest
							contributed to the excitement and indignation which spread throughout France and which
							was to continue until the whole system of government was completely reformed.

						When the king's commissioners tried to proclaim the edicts which robbed the parlements of their right to register new laws, mobs collected and
							insulted them. At Rennes, in Brittany, they were besieged by the townspeople and had
							to be protected by soldiers. At Toulouse the mob tore up the pavement to build
							barricades and prepared to resist the entry of the commissioners. At Bordeaux the new
							laws were proclaimed under the protection of bayonets. Everywhere there were protests,
							usually accompanied by disorder.

						

						Opposition roused in Dauphiny
						Meeting at Vizille

						The most interesting events took place at Grenoble, where the parlement of Dauphiny was accustomed to meet. It declared that, if the king
							persisted in his plan, he would break all the bonds which bound that province to
							France and that Dauphiny would consider itself entirely freed from the oath of
							fidelity to him. When the king's officers arrived to punish the parlement for its audacious utterances, they found the city ready to defend
							it. An assembly was convened at the neighboring Vizille where representatives of the
							nobility, clergy, and third estate came together. They denounced the policy of the
							king's ministers, demanded the speedy convocation of the Estates General, and
							reiterated the right of the nation to grant all taxes and to be protected from
							arbitrary punishment. They claimed that they were vindicating the rights of the nation
							at large, and that they were ready, if necessary, to sacrifice any of their special
							privileges in the interest of the whole kingdom.

						The Estates General summoned for 1789

						This demonstration on the part of Dauphiny and similar ones in the other provinces
							forced the king to dismiss the unpopular ministry and to recall Necker, who had
							followed Turgot as controller general and in whom everybody had great confidence.
							Necker restored the parlements to their old power and, as the
							treasury was absolutely empty, there seemed nothing to do but to call together the
							representatives of the people. Necker therefore announced that the Estates General
							would convene early the next year.1

						General ignorance in regard to the Estates General

						It was now discovered that no one knew much about this body of which every one was
							talking, for it had not met since 1614. The king accordingly issued a general
							invitation to scholars to find out all they could about the customs observed 1 The parlements immediately lost all their importance. They had helped to
								precipitate the reform but they did not sympathize with any change which would
								deprive the privileged classes, to which their members belonged, of their ancient
								exemptions. They therefore forfeited their popularity when in September, 1788, they
								declared that the Estates General should meet in its old way, which would have
								enabled the privileged classes to stop any distasteful reforms.
							 in the former meetings of the Estates. The public
							naturally became very much interested in a matter which touched them so closely, and
							there were plenty of readers for the pamphlets which now began to appear in greater
							numbers than ever before.

						The old system of voting by classes in the Estates General

						The old Estates General had been organized in a way appropriate enough to the feudal
							conditions under which it originated. Each of the three estates of the realm-- clergy,
							nobility, and third estate-- sent an equal number of representatives, who were
							expected to consider not the interests of the nation but the special interests of the
							particular social class to which they respectively belonged. Accordingly the deputies
							of the three estates did not sit together or vote as a single body. The members of
							each group first came to an agreement among themselves and then cast a single vote for
							the whole order. The Estates General thus had three houses instead of two, like the
							English Parliament and the Congress of the United States, which had just been
							established.

						Objections to the system

						It was natural that this system should seem preposterous to the average Frenchman in
							1788. If the Estates should be convoked according to the ancient forms, the two
							privileged classes would together be entitled to twice the number of representatives
							allotted to the other twenty-five million inhabitants of France. What was much worse,
							it seemed impossible that any important reforms could be adopted in an assembly where
							those who had every selfish reason for opposing the most necessary changes were given
							two votes out of three. Necker, whom the king had recalled in the hope that he might
							succeed in adjusting the finances, agreed that the third estate might have as many
							deputies as both the other orders put together, namely six hundred, but he would not
							consent to having the three orders sit and vote together, as the nation at large
							desired.

						Sieyès's pamphlet What is the Third Estate? (Qu'est-ce
								que le tiers état?)

						Of the innumerable pamphlets which now appeared, the most famous was that written by
							Sieyès, called What is the  Third
								Estate? He claimed that the "aristocrats," or privileged classes, should be
							simply neglected, since the deputies of the third estate would represent practically
							the whole nation, namely, some twenty-five million or more individuals of whom less
							than two hundred thousand, as he estimated, were nobles and priests. "It is
							impossible," he says, "to answer the question, What place should the privileged orders
							be assigned in the social body, for it is like asking Where, in the human body, does
							the malign ulcer belong which torments and weakens the unhappy victim?"

						The cahiers

						Besides the great question as to whether the deputies should vote by head or by
							order, the pamphlets discussed what reforms the Estates should undertake. We have,
							however, a still more interesting and important expression of public opinion in France
							at this time, in the cashiers1 or lists of grievances and suggestions for reform, which,
							in pursuance of an old custom, the king asked the nation to prepare. Each village and
							town throughout France had an opportunity to tell quite frankly exactly what it
							suffered from the existing system, and what reforms it desired that the Estates
							General should bring about. These cashiers2 were the "last will and testament" of the old
							regime, and they constitute a unique historical document of unparalleled completeness
							and authenticity. No one can read the cashiers without seeing that
							the nation was ready for the great transformation which, within a year, was to destroy
							a great part of the social and political system under which the French had lived for
							centuries.

						Desire of the nation for a constitutional, instead of an absolute,
							monarchy

						Almost all the cahiers agreed that the prevailing disorder and the
							vast and ill-defined powers of the king and his ministers were perhaps the fundamental
							evils. One of them says: "Since arbitrary power has been the source of all the evils
							which afflict the State, our first desire is the establishment of a really national
							constitution, which shall define the rights of all and provide the 1 Pronounced kă-yâ'.
							2 An example of the cashiers may be found in the Readings, sect.
								34.
							 laws to maintain them." No one dreamed at this time of
							displacing the king or of taking the government out of his hands. The people only
							wished to change an absolute monarchy into a limited, or constitutional, one. All that
							was necessary was that the things which the government might not do should be solemnly
							and irrevocably determined and put upon record, and that the Estates General should
							meet periodically to grant the taxes, give the king advice in national crises, and
							expostulate, if necessary, against any violations of the proposed charter of
							liberties.

						Practically universal manhood suffrage

						The king expressed the wish that he might reach all his subjects, no matter how
							remote or humble they might be. He consequently permitted every one whose name
							appeared upon the list of taxpayers to vote, either directly or indirectly, for
							deputies. As he and his predecessors had always been careful to have every one pay
							taxes that had anything whatever to pay, this was practically equivalent to modern
							universal manhood suffrage.

						Many parish priests elected

						The village priests were all allowed to vote directly for deputies of their order.
							Since they hated the rich prelates who spent their time at the court of Versailles,
							they naturally elected as many as they could of their own rank. The result was that
							two thirds of the representatives of the clergy in the Estates General were simple
							parish priests who were in sympathy with the people and more commonly sided with the
							third estate than with the bishops and abbots, who were bent upon defending the old
							privileges and blocking reform.

						The Estates General meets May 5, 1789
						The representatives of the third estate declare themselves a
							"National Assembly"

						With these ideas expressed in the cahiers in mind, the Estates
							assembled in Versailles and held their first session on May 5, 1789. The king had
							ordered the deputies to wear the same costumes that had been worn at the last meeting
							of the Estates in 1614; but no royal edict could call back the spirit of earlier
							centuries. The representatives of the third estate refused to organize themselves in
							the old way as a separate order. They sent invitation after invitation to the deputies
							of  the clergy and nobility, requesting them to join the
							people's representatives and deliberate in common on the great interests of the
							nation. Some of the more liberal of the nobles-- Lafayette, for example-- and a large
							minority of the clergy wished to meet with the deputies of the third estate.1 But they were outvoted, and
							finally the deputies of the third estate (under the influence of Sieyes), losing
							patience, declared themselves on June 17 a "National Assembly." They argued that,
							since they represented at least ninety-six per cent of the nation, the deputies of the
							privileged orders might be neglected altogether. This usurpation of power on the part
							of the third estate transformed the old feudal Estates, voting by orders, into the
							first modern national representative assembly on the continent of Europe.

						The "Tennis-Court" oath

						Under the influence of his courtiers the king tried to restore the old system by
							arranging a solemn joint session of the three orders, at which he presided in person.
							He presented a long program of excellent reforms, and then bade the Estates sit apart,
							according to the former custom. But it was like bidding water to run up hill. Three
							days before, when the commons had found themselves excluded from their regular place
							of meeting on account of the preparations for the royal session, they had betaken
							themselves to a neighboring building called the "Tennis Court." Here, on June 20, they
							took the famous "Tennis-Court" oath, never to separate "until the constitution of the
							kingdom should be established and placed upon a firm foundation." They were emboldened
							in their purpose to resist all schemes to frustrate a general reform by the support of
							over half of the deputies of the clergy, who joined them the day before the royal
							session.

						The nobility and clergy forced to join the third estate

						Consequently, when the king finished his address and commanded the three orders to
							disperse immediately in order to 1 The nobles, of whom a few sympathized with the third estate,
								rejected the proposed union by a vote of 188 to 47. The vote of the clergy, made up
								largely of parish priests, stood 133 to 114, so ten more noes, in their case, would
								have turned the scale.
							141 
								SWEARING IN THE DEPUTIES AT THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY, JUNE 17, 1789
							
							
							 resume their separate sessions, most of the bishops,
							some of the parish priests, and a great part of the nobility obeyed; the rest sat
							still, uncertain what they should do. When the master of ceremonies ordered them to
							comply with the king's commands, Count Mirabeau, who was to prove himself the most
							distinguished statesman among the deputies, told him bluntly that they would not leave
							their places except at the point of the bayonet. The weak king almost immediately gave
							in, and a few days later ordered all the deputies of the privileged orders, who had
							not already done so, to join the commons.

						First momentous victory of the nation

						This was a momentous victory for the nation. The representatives of the privileged
							classes had been forced to unite with the third estate, to deliberate with them, and
							to vote "by head." Moreover the National Assembly had pledged itself never to separate
							until it had regenerated the kingdom and given France a constitution. It was no longer
							simply to vote taxes and help the king's treasury out of its perennial
							difficulties.
					

					
						FIRST REFORMS OF THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY, JULY-OCTOBER, 1789

						The court party determines to disperse the National Assembly

						20. The National Assembly now began in earnest the great task of
							preparing a constitution for France. It was, however, soon interrupted. The little
							group of noblemen and prelates who spent much of their time in the king's palace
							formed what was known as the court party. They were not numerous but could influence
							the king as no other group in the nation could do. They naturally opposed reform; they
							neither wished to give up their own privileges nor to have the king come under the
							control of the National Assembly, for that would mean that he would no longer be able
							to give them the pensions and lucrative positions which they now readily obtained.
							This court "ring" enjoyed the hearty support of the queen, Marie Antoinette, and of
							the king's younger brother, the count of Artois, both of whom regarded the deputies of
							the third estate as  insolent and dangerous agitators
							who proposed to rob the monarch of the powers which had been conferred upon him by God
							himself. The queen and her friends had got rid of Turgot and Calonne, who had
							endeavored to change the old order; why should they not disperse the Estates General,
							which was escaping from the control of the clergy and nobility?

						Troops sent to Paris; Necker's dismissal, July, 1789
						Camille Desmoulins excites the Parisians, July 12, 1789 

						The king agreed to the court party's plans. He summoned the Swiss and German troops
							in the employ of France and sent a company of them into Paris in order that they might
							suppress any violence on the part of the townspeople, should he decide to send the
							arrogant deputies home. He was also induced to dismiss Necker, who enjoyed a
							popularity that he had, in reality, done little to merit. When the people of Paris saw
							the troops gathering and heard of the dismissal of Necker they became excited. Camille
							Desmoulins, a brilliant young journalist, rushed into the garden of the Palais Royal,
							where crowds of people were discussing the situation, and, leaping upon a table,
							announced that the Swiss and German soldiers would soon be slaughtering all the
							"patriots." He urged the people to arm and defend both themselves and the National
							Assembly from the attacks of the court party, which wished to betray the nation. All
							night the mob surged about the streets, seeking arms in the shops of the gunsmiths and
							breaking into bakeries and taverns to satisfy their hunger and thirst.

						Attack on the Bastille, July 14, 1789

						This was but the prelude to the great day of July 14, when crowds of people assembled
							to renew the search for arms, and to perform, mayhap, some deed of patriotism. One of
							the lawless bands made its way to the ancient fortress of the Bastille, which stood in
							the poorer quarter of the city. Here the mob expected to find arms, but the governor
							of the fortress, de Launay, naturally refused to supply the crowd with weapons. He
							had, moreover, mounted cannons on the parapets, which made the inhabitants of the
							region very nervous. The people hated the castle, which they imagined to be full of
							dark dungeons and instruments of torture. It appeared to them a symbol  of tyranny, for it had long been used as a place of
							confinement for those whom the king imprisoned by his arbitrary orders, the lettres de cachet. While there seemed no hope of taking the fortress,
							whose walls, ten feet thick, towered high above them, the attempt was made.
							Negotiations with the governor were opened and, during these, a part of the crowd
							pressed across a drawbridge into the court. Here, for some reason that has never been
							explained, the troops in the castle fired upon the people and killed nearly a hundred
							of them. Meanwhile the mob on the outside continued an ineffectual but desperate
							attack until de Launay was forced by the garrison to surrender on condition that they
							should be allowed to retire unmolested. The drawbridge was then let down and the crowd
							rushed into the gloomy pile. They found only seven prisoners, whom they freed with
							great enthusiasm. But the better element in the crowd was unable to restrain the
							violent and cruel class, represented in every mob, who proposed to avenge the
							slaughter of their companions in the courtyard of the Bastille. Consequently the Swiss
							soldiers, who formed the garrison, were killed, and their heads, with that of de
							Launay, were paraded about the streets on pikes.

						Significance of the fall of the Bastille
						Beginning of the emigration of the nobles

						The fall of the Bastille is one of the most impressive, striking, and dramatic events
							in modern history, and its anniversary is still celebrated in France as the chief
							national holiday. On that day the people of Paris rose to protect themselves against
							the plots of the courtiers, who wished to maintain the old despotic system. They
							attacked an ancient monument of despotism, forced the king's officer in charge of it
							to capitulate, and then destroyed the walls of the fortress so that nothing now
							remains except a line of white stones to mark its former site. The events of the i4th
							of July, 1789, have been "disfigured and transfigured by legends," but none the less
							they opened a new era of freedom inasmuch as they put an end to the danger of a return
							to the Ancien Régime. It is true that the court party continued to
							make trouble, but its  opposition served to hasten
							rather than to impede reform. Some of the leaders of the group, among them the king's
							younger brother, the count of Artois (who was destined to become king as Charles X),
							left France immediately after the fall of the Bastille and began actively urging
							foreign monarchs to intervene to protect Louis XVI from the reformers.

						The national guard

						It had become clear that the king could not maintain order in Paris. The shopkeepers
							and other respectable citizens were compelled to protect themselves against the wild
							crowds made up of the criminal and disorderly class of the capital and reinforced by
							half-starving men who had drifted to Paris on account of the famine which prevailed in
							the provinces. In order to prevent attacks on individuals and the sacking of shops, a
							"national guard" was organized, made up of volunteers from the well-to-do citizens.
							General Lafayette, one of the most liberal-minded of the nobles, was put in command.
							This deprived the king of every excuse for calling in his regular troops to insure
							order in Paris, and put the military power into the hands of the bourgeoisie, as the French call the class made up of the more prosperous
							business men.

						Establishment of communes in Paris and other
							cities

						The government of Paris was reorganized, and a mayor, chosen from among the members
							of the National Assembly, was put at the head of the new commune, as
							the municipal government was called. The other cities of France also began with one
							accord, after the dismissal of Necker and the fall of the Bastille, to promote the
							Revolution by displacing or supplementing their former governments by committees of
							their citizens. These improvised communes, or city governments, established national
							guards, as Paris had done, and thus maintained order. The news that the king had
							approved the changes at Paris confirmed the citizens of other cities in the conviction
							that they had done right in taking the control into their own hands. We shall hear a
							good deal of the commune, or municipal government, of Paris later, as it played a very
							important rôle in the Reign of Terror.

						

						Disorder in the country districts

						By the end of the month of July the commotion reached the country districts. A
							curious panic swept over the land, which the peasants long remembered as "the great
							fear." A mysterious rumor arose that the "brigands" were coming! The terrified people
							did what they could to prepare for the danger, although they had no clear idea of what
							it was; neighboring communities combined with one another for mutual protection. When
							the panic was over and people saw that there were no brigands after all, they turned
							their attention to an enemy by no means imaginary, i.e. the old régime. The peasants
							assembled on the village common, or in the parish church, and voted to pay the feudal
							dues no longer. The next step was to burn the châteaux, or castles
							of the nobles, in order to destroy the records of the peasants' obligations to their
							feudal lords.

						Night of August 4-5

						About the 1st of August news reached the National Assembly of the burning of châteaux in various parts of the kingdom, and of the obstinate refusal
							of the country people to pay the tithes, taxes, rents, and feudal dues. It seemed
							absolutely necessary to pacify and encourage the people by announcing sweeping
							reforms. Consequently during the celebrated night session of August 4-5, amid great
							excitement, the members of the privileged orders, led by the viscount of Noailles, a
							relative of Lafayette who had fought with him in America, vied with one another in
							surrendering their ancient privileges.1

						Decree abolishing the feudal dues, hunting rights, and other
							privileges

						The exclusive right of the nobility to hunt and to maintain their huge pigeon houses
							was abolished, and the peasant was 1 Of course the nobles and clergy had very little prospect of
								retaining their privileges even if they did not give them up voluntarily. This was
								bitterly emphasized by Marat in his newspaper, The Friend of the
									People. "Let us not be duped! If these sacrifices of privileges were due to
								benevolence, it must be confessed that the voice of benevolence has been raised
								rather late in the day. When the lurid flames of their burning châteaux have illuminated France, these people have been good enough to give
								up the privilege of keeping in fetters men who had already gained their liberty by
								force of arms. When they see the punishment that awaits robbers, extortioners, and
								tyrants like themselves they generously abandon the feudal dues and agree to stop
								bleeding the wretched people who can barely keep body and soul together."
							 permitted to kill game which he found on his land. The
							tithes of the Church were done away with. Exemptions from the payment of taxes were
							abolished forever. It was decreed that "taxes shall be collected from all citizens and
							from all property in the same manner and in the same form," and that "all citizens,
							without distinction of birth, are eligible to any office or dignity." Moreover,
							inasmuch as a national constitution would be of more advantage to the provinces than
							the privileges which some of these enjoyed, and-- so the decree continues-- "inasmuch
							as the surrender of such privileges is essential to the intimate union of all parts of
							the realm, it is decreed that all the peculiar privileges, pecuniary or otherwise, of
							the provinces, principalities, districts, cantons, cities, and communes, are once for
							all abolished and are absorbed into the law common to all Frenchmen."1

						Unification of France through the abolition of the ancient provinces
							and the creation of the present departments

						This decree thus proclaimed the equality and uniformity for which the French people
							had so long sighed. The injustice of the former system of taxation could never be
							reintroduced. All France was to have the same laws, and its citizens were henceforth
							to be treated in the same way by the State, whether they lived in Brittany or
							Dauphiny, in the Pyrenees or on the Rhine. A few months later the Assembly went a step
							farther in consolidating and unifying France. It wiped out the old provinces
							altogether by dividing the whole country into districts of convenient size, called départements. These were much more numerous than the ancient
							divisions, and were named after rivers and mountains. This obliterated from the map
							all reminiscences of the feudal disunion.

						The Declaration of the Rights of Man

						Many of the cahiers had suggested that the Estates should draw up a
							clear statement of the rights of the individual citizen. It was urged that the
							recurrence of abuses and the insidious encroachments of despotism might in this way be
							forever prevented. The National Assembly consequently determined 1 This edict is given in the Readings, sect. 35. The nobles were to be indemnified for some of
								the important but less offensive of the feudal dues.
							 to prepare such a declaration in order to gratify and
							reassure the people and to form a basis for the new constitution.

						This Declaration of the Rights of Man (completed August 26) is one of the most
							notable documents in the history of Europe. It not only aroused general enthusiasm
							when it was first published, but it appeared over and over again, in a modified form,
							in the succeeding French constitutions down to 1848, and has been the model for
							similar declarations in many of the other continental states. It was a dignified
							repudiation of the abuses described in the preceding chapter. Behind each article
							there was some crying evil of long standing against which the people wished to be
							forever protected,-- lettres de cachet, religious persecution,
							censorship of the press, and despotism in general.

						Contents of the Declaration

						The Declaration sets forth that "Men are born and remain equal in rights. Social
							distinctions can only be founded upon the general good." "Law is the expression of the
							general will. Every citizen has a right to participate, personally or through his
							representative, in its formation. It must be the same for all." "No person shall be
							accused, arrested, or imprisoned except in the cases and according to the forms
							prescribed by law." "No one shall be disquieted on account of his opinions, including
							his religious views, provided that their manifestation does not disturb the public
							order established by law." "The free communication of ideas and opinions is one of the
							most precious of the rights of man. Every citizen may, accordingly, speak, write, and
							print with freedom, being responsible, however, for such abuses of this freedom as
							shall be defined by law." "All citizens have a right to decide, either personally or
							by their representative, as to the necessity of the contribution to the public
							treasury, to grant this freely, to know to what uses it is put, and to fix the
							proportion, the mode of assessment and of collection, and the duration of the taxes."
							"Society has the right to require of every public agent an account of his
							administration." Well might the Assembly claim,  in its
							address to the people, that "the rights of man had been misconceived and insulted for
							centuries," and boast that they were "reëstablished for all humanity in this
							declaration, which shall serve as an everlasting war cry against oppressors."
					

					
						THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY IN PARIS, OCTOBER, 1789 TO
								SEPTEMBER, 1791

						The court party once more plans a counter-revolution

						21. The king hesitated to ratify the Declaration of the Rights of
							Man, and about the first of October rumors became current that, under the influence of
							the courtiers, he was calling together troops and preparing for another attempt to put
							an end to the Revolution, similar to that which the attack on the Bastille had
							frustrated. A regiment arrived from Flanders and was entertained at a banquet given by
							the king's guard at Versailles. The queen was present, and it was reported in Paris
							that the officers, in their enthusiasm for her, had trampled under foot the new
							national colors,-- the red, white, and blue,-- which had been adopted after the fall
							of the Bastille. These things, along with the scarcity of food due to the poor crops
							of the year, aroused the excitable Paris populace to fever heat.

						A Paris mob invades the king's palace and carries him off to
							Paris

						On October 5 several thousand women and a number of armed men marched out to
							Versailles to ask bread of the king, in whom they had great confidence personally,
							however suspicious they might be of his friends and advisers. Lafayette marched after
							the crowd with the national guard, but did not prevent some of the people from
							invading the king's palace the next morning and nearly murdering the queen, who had
							become very unpopular. She was believed to be still an Austrian at heart and to be in
							league with the counter-revolutionary party.

						The people declared that the king must accompany them to Paris, and he was obliged to
							consent. Far from being disloyal, they assumed that the presence of the royal family
							would insure plenty and prosperity. So they gayly escorted the "baker and the baker's
							wife and the baker's boy," as they jocularly termed  the
							king and queen and the little dauphin, to the Palace of the Tuileries, where the king
							took up his residence, practically a prisoner, as it proved. The National Assembly
							soon followed him and resumed its sittings in a riding school near the Tuileries.

						Disastrous results of transferring the king and the Assembly of
							Paris

						This transfer of the king and the Assembly to the capital was the first great
							misfortune of the Revolution. The work of reform was by no means completed, and now
							the disorderly element of Paris could at any time invade the galleries and interrupt
							those deputies who proposed measures that did not meet with their approval. Marat's
							newspaper, The Friend of the People, assured the poor of the city
							that they were the real " patriots." Before long they came to hate the well-to-do
							middle class (the bourgeoisie) almost as heartily as they hated the
							nobles, and were ready to follow any leader who talked to them about "liberty" and
							vaguely denounced "traitors." Under these circumstances the populace might at any time
							get control of Paris, and Paris of the National Assembly. And so it fell out, as we
							shall see.

						Mirabeau advises the king to leave Paris and call the Assembly to
							him

						No one was more impressed by the danger than Mirabeau, whose keen insight cannot fail
							to fill every student of the French Revolution with admiration. After the transfer of
							the royal family to Paris, Mirabeau became a sort of official adviser to the king,
							who, however, never acted upon the advice, for both he and the queen abhorred the
							great orator and statesman on account of his views and his immorality. So it did no
							good when Mirabeau pointed out to Louis that both he and the Assembly were really
							prisoners in Paris, which was constantly subject to the most serious disturbances.
							"Its inhabitants when excited are irresistible. Winter is approaching and food may be
							wanting. Bankruptcy may be declared. What will Paris be three months hence?--
							assuredly a poorhouse, perhaps a theater of horrors. Is it to such a place that the
							head of the nation should intrust his existence and our only hope?" The king, he
							urged, should openly retire to Rouen  and summon the
							Assembly to him there, where reforms could be completed without interruption or
							coercion. Above all things, the king must not go eastward, else he would be suspected
							of joining the runaway nobles who were hanging about the boundaries. Yet, as we shall
							see, when the king finally decided to escape from Paris eighteen months later this was
							precisely what he did.

						The new constitution

						But for some time there was no considerable disorder. The deputies worked away on the
							constitution, and on February 4, 1790, the king visited the National Assembly and
							solemnly pledged himself and the queen to accept the new form of government. This
							provided that the sovereign should rule both by the grace of God and by the
							constitutional law of the State, but the nation was to be superior to the law and the
							law to the king. The king was to be the chief executive and to be permitted to veto
							bills passed by the Assembly, unless they were passed by three successive Assemblies,
							in which case they would become law without his ratification. This was called the
							suspensive veto and was supposed to be modeled upon that granted to the President of
							the United States.

						The Legislative Assembly established by the new constitution

						The constitution naturally provided that the laws should be made and the taxes
							granted by a representative body that should meet regularly. This was to consist, like
							the National Assembly, of one house, instead of two like the English Parliament. Many
							had favored the system of two houses, but the nobility and clergy, who would have
							composed the upper house on the English analogy, were still viewed with suspicion as
							likely to wish to restore the privileges of which they had just been deprived. Only
							those citizens who paid a tax equal to three days' labor were permitted to vote for
							deputies to the Legislative Assembly. The poorer people had, consequently, no voice in
							the government in spite of the Declaration of the Rights of Man, which assured equal
							rights to all. This and other restrictions tended to keep the power in the hands of
							the middle class.

						

						The Assembly reforms the Church
						Unjust division of the revenue of the Church

						Of the other reforms of the National Assembly, the most important related to the
							Church, which, as has been explained, continued up to the time of the Revolution to be
							very rich and powerful, and to retain many of its mediaeval prerogatives and
							privileges. Its higher officials, the bishops and abbots, received very large revenues
							and often one prelate held a number of rich benefices, the duties of which he utterly
							neglected while he amused himself at Versailles. The parish priests, on the other
							hand, who really performed the manifold and important functions of the Church, were
							scarcely able to live on their incomes. This unjust apportionment of the vast revenue
							of the Church naturally suggested the idea that, if the State confiscated the
							ecclesiastical possessions, it could see that those who did the work were properly
							paid for it, and might, at the same time, secure a handsome sum which would help the
							government out of its financial troubles. Those who sympathized with Voltaire's views
							were naturally delighted to see their old enemy deprived of its independence and made
							subservient to the State, and even many good Catholics hoped that the new system would
							be an improvement upon the old.

						The National Assembly declares the property of the Church to be at
							the disposal of the nation

						The tithes had been abolished in August along with the feudal dues. This deprived the
							Church of perhaps thirty million dollars a year. On November 2, 1789, a decree was
							passed providing that "All the ecclesiastical possessions are at the disposal of the
							nation on condition that it provides properly for the expenses of maintaining
							religious services, for the support of those who conduct them, and for the succor of
							the poor." This decree deprived the bishops and priests of their benefices and made
							them dependent on salaries paid by the State. The monasteries and convents were also,
							when called upon, to give up their property to meet the needs of the State.1

						1 The mediæval monastic
							orders, feeble and often degenerate, still continued to exist in France at the opening
							of the Revolution,-- Benedictines, Carthusians, Cistercians, Franciscans, Dominicans.
							The State still recognized the solemn vows of poverty taken by the monks and viewed
							them as incapable of holding any property or receiving any bequests. It also regarded
							it as its duty to arrest a runaway monk and restore him to his monastery. The National
							Assembly, shortly after declaring the property of the monasteries at the disposal of
							the nation, refused (February 13, 1790) longer legally to recognize perpetual monastic
							vows, and abolished all the orders which required them. The monks and nuns were to be
							free to leave their monasteries and were, in that case, to receive a pension from the
							government of from seven hundred to twelve hundred francs. Those, however, who
							preferred to remain were to be grouped in such houses as the government assigned them.
							In a year or so a good many of the monks appear to have deserted their old life, but
							very few of the nuns. Those who remained were naturally the most conservative of all;
							they opposed the Revolution and sided with the nonjuring clergy. This made them very
							unpopular with the Legislative Assembly, which in August, 1792, ordered all the
							monasteries to be vacated and turned over to the government for its use. At the same
							time it abolished all the other religious communities and associations, like the
							Oratorians and the Sisters of Charity, which, without requiring any solemn vows, had
							devoted themselves to teaching or charitable works. Many of these religious congregations, as the French call them, were revived in the nineteenth
							century and have been the cause of a good deal of agitation. See below, sect.
							62.

						

						The assignats, or paper currency

						The National Assembly a little later ordered inventories to be made of the lands and
							buildings and various sources of revenue which the bishops, priests, and monks had so
							long enjoyed, and then the Church property was offered for sale. Meanwhile, in order
							to supply an empty treasury, the Assembly determined to issue a paper currency for
							which the newly acquired lands would serve as security. Of these assignats, as this paper money was called, we hear a great deal during the
							revolutionary period. They soon began to depreciate, and ultimately a great part of
							the forty billions of francs issued during the next seven years was repudiated.

						The Civil Constitution of the Clergy, completed July 1, 1790

						After depriving the Church of its property, the Assembly deemed it necessary to
							completely reorganize it, and drew up the so-called Civil Constitution of the Clergy.
							The one hundred and thirty-four ancient bishoprics, some of which dated back to the
							Roman Empire, were reduced to eighty-three, so as to correspond with the new
							"departments" into which France had just been divided. Each of these became the
							diocese of a bishop, who was no longer to be appointed by the king and confirmed by
							the Pope1 but was looked upon
							as a government 1 The
								decrees abolishing the feudal system (August 11, 1789) had already prohibited all
								remittances to the Pope in the shape of annates or other payments.
								The bishoprics were grouped into ten districts, each presided over by a
								"metropolitan," who corresponded to the former archbishop.
							 official, to be elected, like other government
							officials, by the people, and paid a regular salary. The priests, too, were to be
							chosen by the people instead, as formerly, by the bishop or lord of the manor; and
							their salaries were to be substantially increased. In Paris they were to have six
							thousand francs, in smaller places less, but never an amount below twelve hundred
							francs; even in the smallest villages they received over twice the minimum paid under
							the old regime. Lastly, it was provided that clergymen, upon accepting office, must
							all take an oath, like other government officials, to be faithful to the nation, the
							law, and the king, and to "maintain with all their might the constitution decreed by
							the Assembly."1

						Opposition aroused by the Civil Constitution

						The Civil Constitution of the Clergy proved a serious mistake. While the
							half-feudalized Church had sadly needed reform, the worst abuses might have been
							remedied without overturning the whole system, which was hallowed in the minds of most
							of the French people by age and religious veneration. The arbitrary suppression of
							fifty-one bishoprics, the election of the bishops by the ordinary voters, who included
							Protestants, Jews, and unbelievers, the neglect of the Pope's rights,-- all shocked
							and alienated thousands of those who had hitherto enthusiastically applauded the
							reforms which the Assembly had effected. The king gave his assent to the Civil
							Constitution, but with the fearful apprehension that he might be losing his soul by so
							doing. From that time on he became an enemy of the Revolution on religious
							grounds.

						Oath to the Constitution required of the clergy

						The bishops, with very few exceptions, opposed the changes and did all they could to
							prevent the reforms from being carried out. Accordingly (November 27, 1790) the
							irritated Assembly ordered all the bishops and priests to take the oath to the
							Constitution (which, of course, included the new laws in regard to the Church) within
							a week. Those who refused were to be regarded as having resigned; and if any of them
								1 For the text of the
								Civil Constitution of the Clergy, see the Readings, sect.
								36.
							 still continued to perform their functions they were to
							be treated as "disturbers of the peace."

						The "nonjuring" clergy become the enemies of the Revolution

						Only four of the bishops consented to take the required oath and but a third of the
							lower clergy, although they were much better off under the new system. Forty-six
							thousand parish priests refused to sacrifice their religious scruples. Before long the
							Pope condemned the Civil Constitution and forbade the clergy to take the oath. As time
							went on the "nonjuring" clergy were dealt with more and more harshly by the
							government, and the way was prepared for the horrors of the Reign of Terror. The
							Revolution ceased to stand for liberty, order, and the abolition of ancient abuses,
							and came to mean -in the minds of many besides those who had lost their former
							privileges-- irreligion, violence, and a new kind of oppression more cruel than the
							old.

						Celebration of the fall of the Bastille

						A year after the fall of the Bastille a great festival was held in Paris to celebrate
							the glorious anniversary which has been commemorated on the 14th of July ever since.
							Delegates were sent to Paris from all parts of France to express the sympathy of the
							country at large. This occasion made a deep impression upon all, as well it might. It
							was more than a year later, however, before the National Assembly at last finished its
							work and dissolved, to give place to the Legislative Assembly for which the
							constitution provided.

						The extraordinary achievements of the National Assembly

						It was little more than two years that the National Assembly had been engaged upon
							its tremendous task of modernizing France. No body of men has ever accomplished so
							much in so short a period. The English Parliament, during an existence of five hundred
							years, had done far less to reform England; and no monarch, with the possible
							exception of the unhappy Joseph II, has ever even attempted to make such deep and
							far-reaching changes as were permanently accomplished by the first French
							Assembly.

						The hostility aroused by the policy of the Assembly

						Despite the marvelous success of the Assembly, as measured by the multiplicity and
							the decisiveness of its reforms, it had  made many and
							dangerous enemies. The king and queen and the courtiers were in correspondence with
							the king of Prussia and the Emperor, with a hope of inducing them to intervene to
							check the Revolution. The runaway nobles were ready to call in foreign forces to
							restore, the old system, and many of the clergy now regarded the Revolution as hostile
							to religion. Moreover the populace in Paris and in other large towns had been aroused
							against the Assembly by their radical leaders, their newspapers, and the political
							clubs. They felt that the deputies had worked only for the prosperous classes and had
							done little for the poor people, who should have been supplied with bread and allowed
							to vote. They were irritated also by the national guard commanded by that ex-noble,
							the marquis of Lafayette, who looked altogether too fine on his white horse. The
							members of the guard, too, were well dressed and only too ready to fire on the
							"patriots" if they dared to make a demonstration. Altogether it is easy to see that
							there was trouble ahead. The Revolution had gone much too far for some and not far
							enough for others.
					

					

						REFERENCES
							The Cahiers: LOWELL, Eve of
										the French Revolution, chaps. xxi-xxii, pp. 342-376; Cambridge
											Modern History, Vol. VIII, pp. 134-144.
								The Pamphlets: LOWELL, chap. xx, pp.
									322-341.
								Convocation of the Estates General: MATHEWS, The French Revolution, chap. viii, pp. 102-110;
										STEPHENS, History of the French Revolution,
									Vol. I, Prologue, and chap. i, pp. 1-54; Cambridge Modern
										History, Vol. VIII, pp. 96-118.
								Opening of the National Assembly: MATHEWS, chap. ix, pp. 111-124; STEPHENS, Vol. I, chap.
									ii, pp. 55-74; Cambridge Modern History, Vol. VIII, pp.
									145-158.
								Fall of the Bastille: MATHEWS, chap. x,
									pp. 125-137; STEPHENS, Vol. I, pp. 128-145 ; Cambridge Modern History, Vol. VIII, pp. 159-169.
						
								The Country at Large in the Summer of 1789: STEPHENS, Vol. I, chap. vi, pp. 169-197.
								Abolition of the Old Régime: MATHEWS,
									chaps. xi-xii, pp. 138-165.
								The Civil Constitution of the Clergy: STEPHENS, Vol. I, chap. x, pp. 291-309.
								English Attitude toward the Revolution: LECKY, History of England in the Eighteenth Century, Vol.
									VI, chap. xix, pp. 365-487; Cambridge Modern History, Vol. VIII,
									chap. xxv, pp. 754-771. 
					
				

				
					
					CHAPTER VII
						THE FIRST FRENCH REPUBLIC

					
						THE ABOLITION OF THE MONARCHY, 1791-1792

						22. We have now studied the progress and nature of the revolution
							which destroyed the old regime and created modern France. Through it the unjust
							privileges, the perplexing irregularities, and the local differences were abolished,
							and the people admitted to a share in the government. This vast reform had been
							accomplished without serious disturbance and, with the exception of some of the
							changes in the Church, it had been welcomed with enthusiasm by the French nation.

						The second revolution

						This permanent, peaceful revolution, or reformation, was followed by a second,
							violent revolution, which for a time destroyed the French monarchy. It also introduced
							a series of further changes, many of which were fantastic and unnecessary and could
							not endure, since they were approved by only a few fanatical leaders. France,
							moreover, became involved in a war with most of the powers of western Europe. The
							weakness of her government, which permitted the forces of disorder and fanaticism to
							prevail, combined with the imminent danger of an invasion by the united powers of
							Europe, produced the Reign of Terror. After a period of national excitement and
							partial anarchy, France gladly accepted the rule of one of her military commanders,
							who was to prove himself far more despotic than her former kings had been. This
							general, Napoleon Bonaparte, did not, however, undo the great work of 1789; his
							colossal ambition was, on the contrary, the means of extending, directly or
							indirectly, many of the benefits of the Revolution to other parts of western Europe.
							When, after Napoleon's fall, the elder  brother of Louis
							XVI came to the throne, the first thing that he did was solemnly to assure the people
							that all the great gains of the first revolution should be maintained.

						The emigration of the nobles

						While practically the whole of the nation heartily rejoiced in the earlier reforms
							introduced by the National Assembly, and celebrated the general satisfaction and
							harmony by that great national festival held in Paris on the first anniversary of the
							fall of the Bastille, of which mention has been made,1 some of the higher nobility refused to remain in France.
							The count of Artois (the king's younger brother), Calonne, the prince of Condé, and
							others, set the example by leaving the country just after the events of July 14, 1789.
							They were followed by others who were terrified or disgusted by the burning of the châteaux, the loss of their privileges, and the injudicious abolition
							of hereditary nobility by the National Assembly in June, 1790. Before long these
							emigrant nobles (émigrés), among whom were many military officers
							like Condé, organized a little army across the Rhine, and the count of Artois began to
							plan an invasion of France. He was ready to ally himself with Austria, Prussia, or any
							other foreign government which he could induce to help undo the Revolution and give
							back to the French king his former absolute power, and to the nobles their old
							privileges.

						The conduct of the emigrant nobles discredits the king and
							queen

						The threats and insolence of the emigrant nobles and their shameful negotiations with
							foreign powers discredited the members of their class who still remained in France.
							The people suspected that the plans of the runaways met with the secret approval of
							the king, and more especially of the queen, whose brother, Leopold II, was now
							Emperor, and ruler of the Austrian dominions. This, added to the opposition of the
							nonjuring clergy, produced a bitter hostility between the so-called "patriots" and
							those who, on the other hand, were supposed to be secretly hoping for a
							counter-revolution which would reëstablish the old régime.

						1 See
								above, p. 130.

						

						Mirabeau fails to strengthen the monarchy, and dies, April,
							1791

						Had the king been willing to follow the advice of Mirabeau, the tragedy of the
							approaching Reign of Terror might probably have been avoided. France needed a strong
							king who would adjust himself to the new constitution, guide the Assembly, maintain
							order in Paris and the other great cities, and, above all, avoid any suspicion of
							wishing for a restoration of the old regime. Mirabeau saw clearly that the welfare of
							France at this juncture depended upon strengthening the monarchy. His efforts to
							forward this end were, however, unavailing. The fact that he accepted money from the
							king for advice roused the natural suspicions of the radical members of the Assembly
							and he was denounced as a traitor. On the other hand, he never really enjoyed the
							confidence of Louis XVI, who, like the queen, heartily detested him. He died April 2,
							1791, at the age of forty-three, worn out by a life of dissipation, and the king was
							thus left with no one to hold him back from destruction.

						The flight to Varennes (June 21, 1791)

						The worst fears of the people seemed to be justified by the secret flight of the
							royal family from Paris, in June, 1791. Ever since the king had reluctantly signed the
							Civil Constitution of the Clergy, flight had seemed to him his only resource. A body
							of regular troops was collected on the northeastern boundary ready to receive and
							protect him. If he could escape and join them at Montmédy, which was just on the
							frontier, about a hundred and seventy miles from Paris, he hoped that, aided by a
							demonstration on the part of the queen's brother, Leopold, he might march back and
							check the further progress of the revolutionary movement. He had, it is true, no
							liking for the emigrants and disapproved of their policy, nor did he believe that the
							old regime could ever be restored. But, unfortunately, his plans led him to attempt to
							reach the boundary just at the point where the emigrants were collected, viz. at
							Coblenz and Worms. He and the queen were, however, arrested at Varennes, when within
							twenty-five miles of their destination, and speedily brought back to Paris.

						

						Effect of the king's flight

						The desertion of the king appears to have terrified rather than angered the nation.
							The consternation of the people at the thought of losing, and their relief at
							regaining, a poor weak ruler like Louis XVI clearly shows that France was still
							profoundly royalist in its sympathies. The National Assembly pretended that the king
							had not fled but had been carried off. This gratified France at large; in Paris,
							however, there were some who advocated the deposition of the king, on the ground that
							he was clearly a traitor. Indeed, for the first time a republican
							party, small as yet, made its appearance, which urged the complete abolition of the
							monarchical form of government and the substitution of a democracy.

						The leaders of the new republican party

						Of those who had lost confidence in the king and in the monarchy, the most prominent
							was Dr. Marat, a physician and scholar, who before the Revolution had published
							several scientific works, but was now conducting the very violent newspaper already
							quoted, The Friend of the People. In this he denounced in the most
							extravagant language both the "aristocrats" and the "bourgeoisie,"-- for by "the
							people" he meant the great mass of workingmen in the towns and the peasants in the
							fields. Then there was the gentle and witty Camille Desmoulins, who had made the
							famous address in the Palais Royal on the 12th of July, 1789, which roused the
							populace to defend themselves against the plots of the courtiers. He too edited a
							newspaper and was a leader in the radical club called the Cordeliers.1 Lastly
							Desmoulins's good friend Danton, with his coarse, strong face, his big voice, and his
							fiery eloquence, was becoming a sort of Mirabeau of the masses. He had much good sense
							and was not so virulent in his language as Marat, but his superabundant vitality led
							him to condone violence and cruelty in carrying on the Revolution and destroying its
							enemies.

						1 So named after the
							monastery where the club held its meetings. The monks had belonged to the order of St.
							Francis and were called Cordeliers on account of the heavy "cord," a
							rope with three knots, which they wore instead of a girdle.

						

						Massacre of the Champ de Mars (July 17, 1791)

						Under the influence of these men a petition was drawn up demanding that the Assembly
							should regard the king as having abdicated by his flight, and that a new convention
							should be called to draw up a better constitution. On July 17 this petition was taken
							to the Champ de Mars (a great open space used for military maneuvers, where the
							festival had been held during the previous July), and here the people of Paris were
							called together to sign it. The mayor of Paris disapproved of the affair and decided
							to disperse the people. He marched out with Lafayette and the national guard and
							ordered the petitioners to go home. Unhappily the crowd did not take the warnings of
							the mayor seriously; some stones were thrown at the troops, who were thereupon ordered
							to fire, and a number of men, women, and children were killed. This unfortunate and
							quite needless "Massacre of the Champ de Mars" served to weaken the monarchy still
							farther. It was not forgotten, although the king remained on the throne for a year
							longer, and Marat, Danton, and Desmoulins were intimidated and thought it prudent to
							remain in hiding for a time.

						The National Assembly gives way to the Legislative Assembly
							(September, 1791)

						It was in the following September that the National Assembly at last put the
							finishing touches on the constitution which had occupied them for more than two years.
							The king swore to obey it faithfully, and a general amnesty was proclaimed so that all
							the discord and suspicion of the past few months might be forgotten. The Assembly then
							broke up and gave way to the regular congress provided for by the new constitution,--
							the Legislative Assembly,-- which held its first meeting October 1, 1791.

						Sources of danger at the opening of the Legislative Assembly,
							October, 1791

						In spite of the great achievements of the National Assembly it left France in a
							critical situation. Besides the emigrant nobles abroad there were the nonjuring clergy
							at home, and a king who was treacherously corresponding with foreign powers in the
							hope of securing their aid. When the news of the capture of the king and queen at
							Varennes reached the ears of Marie Antoinette's brother, Leopold II, he declared that
							the  violent arrest of the king sealed with unlawfulness
							all that had been done in France and "compromised directly the honor of all the
							sovereigns and the security of every government." He therefore proposed to the rulers
							of Russia, England, Prussia, Spain, Naples, and Sardinia that they should come to some
							understanding between themselves as to how they might "reëstablish the liberty and
							honor of the most Christian king and his family, and place a check upon the dangerous
							excesses of the French Revolution, the fatal example of which it behooves every
							government to repress."

						The Declaration of Pillnitz, August 27, 1791

						On August 27 Leopold, in conjunction with the king of Prussia, had issued the famous
							Declaration of Pillnitz. In this the two sovereigns state that, in accordance with the
							wishes of the king's brothers (the leaders of the emigrant nobles), they are ready to
							join the other European rulers in an attempt to place the king of France in a position
							to establish a form of government "that shall be once more in harmony with the rights
							of sovereigns and shall promote the welfare of the French nation." They agreed in the
							meantime to prepare their troops for active service.

						Effect of the Declaration

						The Declaration was little more than an empty threat; but it seemed to the French
							people a sufficient proof that the monarchs were ready to help the seditious French
							nobles to reëstablish the old régime against the wishes of the nation and at the cost
							of infinite bloodshed. The idea of foreign rulers intermeddling with their internal
							affairs would in itself have been intolerable to a proud people like the French, even
							if the new reforms had not been endangered. Had it been the object of the allied
							monarchs to hasten instead of to prevent the deposition of Louis XVI, they could
							hardly have chosen a more efficient means than the Declaration of Pillnitz.

						The newspapers
						Political excitement and enthusiasm for the Revolution were kept up by the newspapers
							which had been established, especially in Paris, since the convening of the Estates
							General. Except in England there had been no daily newspapers before  the French Revolution, and those journals that were
							issued weekly or at longer intervals had little to say of politics,-- commonly a
							dangerous subject on the Continent. But after 1789 the public did not need longer to
							rely upon an occasional pamphlet, as was the case earlier. Many journals of the most
							divergent kinds and representing the most various opinions were published. Some, like
							the notorious Friend of the People, were no more than a periodical
							editorial written by one man. Others, like the famous Moniteur, were
							much like our papers of to-day and contained news, both foreign and domestic, reports
							of the debates in the assembly and the text of its decrees, announcements of theaters,
							etc. The royalists had their organ called The Acts of the Apostles,
							witty and irreverent as the court party itself. Some of the papers were illustrated,
							and the representations of contemporaneous events, especially the numerous
							caricatures, are highly diverting.1

						The Jacobians

						Of the numerous political clubs, by far the most famous was that of the Jacobins. When the Assembly moved into Paris some of the provincial
							representatives of the third estate rented a large room in the monastery of the
							Jacobin monks, not far from the building where the National Assembly itself met. A
							hundred deputies perhaps were present at the first meeting. The next day the number
							had doubled. The aim of this society was to discuss questions which were about to come
							before the National Assembly. The club decided at its meetings what should be the
							policy of its members and how they should vote; and in this way they successfully
							combined to counteract the schemes of the aristocratic party in the Assembly. The club
							rapidly grew, and soon admitted to its sessions some who were not deputies. In
							October, 1791, it decided to permit the public to attend its discussions.

						1 For example, in one of
							the caricatures, the formerly despotic king is represented as safely confined by the
							National Assembly in a huge parrot cage. When asked by his brother-in-law, Leopold II,
							what he is about, Louis XVI replies, "I am signing my name,"-- that is, he had nothing
							to do except meekly to ratify the measures which the Assembly chose to pass.

						

						Gradually similar societies were formed in the provinces.1 These affiliated themselves with the "mother"
							society at Paris and kept in constant communication with it. In this way the Jacobins
							of Paris stimulated and controlled public opinion throughout France and kept the
							opponents of the old regime alert. When the Legislative Assembly met, the Jacobins had
							not as yet become republicans but they believed that the king should have hardly more
							power than the president of a republic. They were even ready to promote his deposition
							if he failed to stand by the Revolution.

						Parties in the Legislative Assembly

						The new Legislative Assembly was not well qualified to cope with the many
							difficulties which faced it. It was made up almost entirely of young and inexperienced
							men, for the National Assembly, on motion of the virtuous Robespierre, had passed a
							self-denying ordinance excluding all its members from election to the new body. The
							Jacobin clubs in the provinces had succeeded in securing the election of a good many
							of their candidates, sometimes by resorting to violence in order to defeat the more
							conservative candidates. Consequently the most active and powerful party in the
							Legislative Assembly was, on the whole, hostile to the king.

						The Girondists

						Many young and ardent lawyers had been elected, among whom the most prominent were
							from the department of the Gironde, in which the important city of Bordeaux was
							situated. They and their followers were called Girondists. They had much to say in
							their brilliant speeches of the glories of Sparta and of the Roman Republic; they too
							longed for a republic and inveighed against "tyrants." They applauded the eloquence of
							their chief orator, Vergniaud, and frequently assembled at the house of the ardent and
							fascinating Madame Roland to consider the regeneration of their beloved country. But
							in spite of their enthusiasm they were not statesmen and showed no skill in meeting
							the troublesome problems that kept arising.

						1 By June, 1791, there were
							406 of these affiliated Jacobin clubs. See Readings, sect.
							37.

						

						The emigrant nobles declared traitors

						The Assembly, not unnaturally, promptly turned its attention to the emigrant nobles.
							These had been joined by the king's elder brother, the count of Provence, who had
							managed to escape at the time that the royal family had been arrested at Varennes.
							Having succeeded in inducing the Emperor and the king of Prussia to issue the
							Declaration of Pillnitz, they continued to collect troops on the Rhine. The Assembly
							declared that "the Frenchmen assembled on the frontier" were under suspicion of
							conspiring against their country. The count of Provence was ordered to return within
							two months or forfeit any possible claim to the throne.1 Should the other émigrés fail to return
							to France by January 1, 1792, they were to be regarded as convicted traitors, and
							punished, if caught, with death; their property was to be confiscated.

						Harsh measures of the Assembly toward nonjuring clergy

						The harsh treatment of the emigrant nobles was perhaps justified by their desertion
							and treasonable intrigues; but the conduct of the Assembly toward the clergy was
							impolitic as well as cruel. Those who had refused to pledge themselves to support a
							system which was in conflict with their religious convictions and which had been
							condemned by the Pope were commanded to take the prescribed oath within a week, on
							penalty of losing their income from the State and being put under surveillance as
							"suspects." As this failed to bring the clergy to terms, the Assembly later (May,
							1792) ordered the deportation from the country of those who steadily persisted in
							their refusal to accept the Civil Constitution of the Clergy. In this way the Assembly
							aroused the active hostility of a great part of the most conscientious among the lower
							clergy, who had loyally supported the commons in their fight against the privileged
							orders. It also lost the confidence of the great mass of faithful Catholics,--
							merchants, artisans, and peasants,-- who had gladly accepted the abolition of the old
							abuses, but who would not consent to desert their priests at the bidding of the
							Assembly.

						1 See Readings, sect. 37, for the count of Provence's saucy
							reply.

						

						The Legislative Assembly precipitates a war with Europe

						By far the most important act of the Legislative Assembly during the one year of its
							existence was its precipitation of a war between France and Austria.1 To many in the Assembly, including the
							Girondists, it seemed that the existing conditions were intolerable. The emigrant
							nobles were forming little armies on the boundaries of France and had induced Austria
							and Prussia to consider interfering in French affairs. The Assembly suspected-- what
							was quite true2-- that Louis
							was negotiating with foreign rulers and would be glad to have them intervene and
							reestablish him in his old despotic power. The Girondist deputies argued, therefore,
							that a war against the hated Austria would unite the sympathies of the nation and
							force the king to show his true character; for he would be obliged either to become
							the nation's leader or to show himself the traitor they believed him to be.

						France declares war on Austria (April 20, 1792)

						It was with a heavy heart that Louis XVI, urged on by the clamors of the Girondists,
							declared war upon Austria on April 20, 1792. Little did the ardent young lawyers of
							the Assembly surmise that this was the beginning of the most terrific and momentous
							series of wars that ever swept over Europe, involving, during twenty-three years of
							almost continuous conflict, every country and people from Ireland to Turkey, and from
							Norway to Naples. Although the Girondist leaders, Vergniaud, Brissot, Guadet, and
							their friend Madame Roland, were the first to be destroyed by the storm they had
							conjured up, could they have looked forward they would have been consoled to see that
							the tyrants they hated never permanently regained their old power; that the long wars
							served to bring the principles of the French Revolution home to all the European
							peoples, everywhere slowly but surely destroyed the old regime, and gave to the people
							the liberty and the control of the government which the Girondists had so hotly
							defended.

						1 See Readings, sect. 37, for reasons assigned by the French for going to
							war.

						2 Ibid., for letter of
							Louis XVI, December 3, 1791, to the king of Prussia, suggesting the intervention of
							the foreign powers in French affairs.

						

						The French fall in their first attack on the Austrian
							Netherlands

						The French army was in no condition for war. The officers, who, according to the law,
							were all nobles, had many of them deserted and joined the émigrés.
							The regular troops were consequently demoralized, and the new national guard had not
							yet lands been employed except to maintain order in the towns. Naturally Dumouriez,
							the Girondist minister of war, first turned his attention to the Austrian Netherlands,
							which promised to be an easy conquest. The reforms of Joseph II and his attempt to
							make the Netherlands an integral part of the Austrian state had roused a revolt in
							1789. It is true that when Leopold II came to the throne and undid his brother's rash
							changes, all resistance had subsided. Still there was a strong party in the
							Netherlands which greeted the French Revolution with enthusiasm, and Dumouriez had
							good reason to think that the attempts made a century before by Louis XIV to add that
							region to France might at last be successful. But the raw troops that he collected for
							the invasion of Belgium ran away as soon as they caught sight of Austrian cavalry. The
							emigrant nobles rejoiced, and Europe concluded that the "patriots" were made of poor
							stuff.

						The king vetoes two measures of the Legislative Assembly and
							dismisses his Girondist ministers (May-June 1792)

						Meanwhile matters were going badly for the king of France. The Assembly had passed
							two bills, one ordering those priests who refused to take the oath to the constitution
							to leave the country within a month; the other directing the formation, just without
							the walls of Paris, of a camp of twenty thousand volunteers from various parts of
							France as a protection to the capital. The king resolved, for very good reasons, to
							veto both of these measures and to dismiss his Girondist ministry, with the exception
							of Dumouriez, his really able minister of war, who immediately resigned.

						Rising of June 20, 1792

						All this served to make the king far more unpopular than ever. The "Austrian woman"
							or "Madame Veto," as the queen was called, was rightly believed to be actively
							betraying France, and it is now known that she did send to Austria the plan of
							campaign which had been adopted before the war began. 
							On June 20 some of the lesser leaders of the Paris populace resolved to celebrate the
							anniversary of the Tennis-Court oath. They arranged a procession which was permitted
							to march through the Riding School where the Assembly sat.

						The sans-culottes

						The ensigns of the mob were a calf's heart on the point of a pike, labeled "the heart
							of an aristocrat," and a pair of knee breeches representing the older costume of a
							gentleman, which was now going out of fashion since the Girondists, in order to
							exhibit their democratic sentiments, had adopted the long trousers which had hitherto
							been worn only by workingmen. To give up knee breeches and become a "sans-culotte," or
							breeches-less patriot, had come to be considered an unmistakable indication of love
							for the Revolution.

						Invasion of the Tuileries

						After visiting the Assembly, the crowd found their way into the neighboring palace of
							the Tuileries. They wandered through the beautiful apartments shouting, "Down with
							Monsieur Veto!" The king might have been killed by some ruffian had he not consented
							to drink to the health of the "nation"-- whose representatives were roughly crowding
							him into the recess of a window-- and put on a red "liberty cap," the badge of the
							"citizen patriots."

						Approach of the Prussian army

						This invasion of the Tuileries seemed to the European rulers a new and conclusive
							proof that the Revolution meant anarchy. Had not the populace of Paris treated the
							king of France as they might have disported themselves with a poor drunken fellow in
							the street? Prussia had immediately joined Austria when France declared war against
							the latter in April, and now the army which Frederick the Great had led to victory was
							moving, under his old general, the duke of Brunswick, toward the French boundary with
							a view of restoring Louis XVI to his former independent position.

						The country declared in danger (July 11, 1792)

						The Assembly now declared the country in danger. Every citizen, whether in town or
							country, was to report, under penalty of imprisonment, what arms or munitions he
							possessed. The national guards were to select from their ranks  those who could best join the active army. Every citizen was ordered to
							wear the tricolored cockade,-- the red, white, and blue of the Revolution. In this way
							the peasants, who had been accustomed to regard war as a matter of purely personal
							interest to kings, were given to understand that they were not now called upon to risk
							their lives, as formerly, because the Polish king had lost his throne, or because
							Maria Theresa had a grudge against Frederick the Great. Now, if they shed their blood,
							it would be to keep out of France two "tyrants" who proposed to force them to
							surrender the precious reforms of the past three years and restore to the hated
							runaway nobles their former privileges.

						The proclamation of the duke of Brunswick (July 25, 1792)

						As the allies approached the French frontier it became clearer and clearer that the
							king was utterly incapable of defending the country, even if he were willing to oppose
							the armies which claimed to be coming to his rescue and with which he was believed to
							be in league. France seemed almost compelled under the circumstances to rid herself of
							her traitorous and utterly incompetent ruler. The duke of Brunswick, who was in
							command of the Prussian army, sealed the king's fate by issuing a manifesto in the
							name of both the Emperor and the king of Prussia, in which he declared that the allies
							proposed to put an end to anarchy in France and restore the king to his rightful
							powers; that the inhabitants of France who dared to oppose the Austrian and Prussian
							troops "shall be punished immediately according to the most stringent laws of war, and
							their houses shall be burned." If Paris offered the least violence to king or queen,
							or again permitted the Tuileries to be invaded, the allies promised to "inflict an
							ever-to-be-remembered vengeance by delivering over the city of Paris to military
							execution and complete destruction."

						The volunteers of Marseilles and their war song

						The leaders in Paris now determined to force the Assembly to depose the king. Five
							hundred members of the national guard of Marseilles were summoned to their aid. This
							little troop of "patriots" came marching up through France singing  that most stirring of all national hymns, the
							"Marseillaise," which has ever since borne their name.1

						The Tuileries again attacked (August 10, 1792)

						Danton and other leaders of the insurrection had set their hearts on doing away with
							the king altogether and establishing a republic. After careful preparations, which
							were scarcely concealed, the various sections into which Paris was divided arranged to
							attack the Tuileries on August 10. The men from Marseilles led in this attack. The
							king, who had been warned, retired from the palace with the queen and the dauphin to
							the neighboring Riding School where they were respectfully received by the Assembly
							and assigned a safe place in the newspaper reporters' gallery. The king's Swiss guards
							fired upon the insurgents, but were overpowered and almost all of them slain. Then the
							ruffianly element in the mob ransacked the palace and killed the servants. Napoleon
							Bonaparte, an unknown lieutenant who was watching affairs from across the river,
							declared that the palace could easily have been defended 1 This famous song was not meant originally as
								a republican chant. It had been composed a few months before by Rouget de Lisle at
								Strassburg. War had just been declared, and it was designed to give heart to the
								French army on the Rhine. The "tyrants" it refers to were the foreign kings
								Frederick William II of Prussia and the Emperor, who were attacking France, not
								Louis XVI. The "Marseillaise" begins as follows: 
									Allons, enfants de la patrie,
									Le jour de gloire est arrivé;
									Contre nous de la tyrannie
									L'étendard sanglant est levé. (repeat)
									Entendez-vous, dans ces campagnes,
									Mugir ces féroces soldats?
									Ils viennent jusque dans vos bras
									Égorger vos fils, vos compagnes!
									Aux armes, citoyens! formez vos bataillons!
									Marchons, qu'un sang impure abreuve nos sillons.
								
								
									Que veut cette horde d'esclaves,
									De traitres, de rois conjurés?
									Pour qui ces ignobles entraves,
									Ces fers dés longtemps préparés? (repeat)
									Français, pour nous, ah! quel outrage!
									Quels transports il doit exciter !
									C'est nous qu'on ose méditer
									De rendre à l'antique esclavage !
									Aux armes, citoyens! formez vos bataillons !
									Marchons, qu'un sang impure abreuve nos sillona.
								
							The First French Republic had not the commander of the
							guards been brutally murdered before hostilities opened.1

						The revolutionary commune of Paris

						Meanwhile the representatives of the various quarters of Paris had taken possession
							of the City Hall. They pushed the members of the municipal council off their seats and
							took their places. In this way a new revolutionary commune was formed, which seized
							the government of the capital and then sent messengers to demand that the Assembly
							dethrone the king.

						Attitude of the Legislative Assembly

						The Assembly refused to abolish kingship, but "suspended" the monarch and put him
							under guard. They regarded the attack on the Tuileries merely as a reply to the
							threats of the allies, and endeavored to reassure Europe by proclaiming that France
							had no idea of making any conquests, but desired to secure the brotherhood of mankind.
							To illustrate this universal brotherhood, the privileges of French citizenship were
							conferred upon a number of distinguished foreigners,-- Priestley, Wilberforce,
							Schiller, Washington, and Kosciusko among others. The suffrage in France, which had
							been limited by the previous Assembly to the citizens who could pay taxes equal to
							three days' labor, was extended to all, rich and poor alike. Lastly, a new ministry
							was formed in which Danton, the most conspicuous leader in the insurrection, was made
							minister of justice.

						Why monarchy was doomed in France

						Three days later a decree which had been proposed by Vergniaud was passed, summoning
							a national convention to 1 Of the many patriotic songs which express the spirit of the people during
								the Revolution, the famous "Carmagnole," which deals with the events of August 10,
								may be cited. It begins: 
									Madame Veto avait promis,
									Madame Veto avait promis,
									De faire égorger tout Paris,
									De faire égorger tout Paris.
									Mais le coup a manqué
									Grace à nos cannoniers!
									Dansons la Carmagnole!
									Vive le son, vive le son,
									Dansons la Carmagnole,
									Vive le son du canon!
								
							
							 draft a new constitution. Although a great part of
							France was still loyal to the monarchy, it was evident that under the circumstances
							this convention would be forced to establish a republic. What else could it do? The
							king and queen were in league with the foreign enemy whom the king's two brothers had
							induced to invade France. The natural heir to the throne was a boy of seven to whose
							weak hands it was impossible to intrust the public welfare. These were strong
							arguments for the republican leaders and newspaper editors, especially as they had
							behind them the resolute insurrectionary commune of Paris. France must find a
							substitute for her ancient kings, who had come to seem little better than the feudal
							lords of whom they had been, after all, the chief. In short, the monarchial
							constitution which had not yet been in force a year had already become an
							anachronism.

						Appalling task of the Convention

						So the Legislative Assembly gave way to the Convention, whose task was truly
							appalling since it had not only to draft a new constitution to suit both monarchists
							and republicans, but to conduct the government, repel invading armies, keep down the
							Paris mob,--in a word, see France through the Reign of Terror.
					

					
						THE REIGN OF TERROR

						France proclaimed a republic (September 22, 1792)

						23. The Convention met on the 21st of September, and its first act
							was to abolish the ancient monarchy and proclaim France a republic. It seemed to the
							enthusiasts of the time that a new era of liberty had dawned, now that the long
							oppression by "despots " was ended forever. The twenty-second day of September, 1792,
							was reckoned as the first day of the Year One of French Liberty.1

						1 A committee of the
							Convention was appointed to draw up a new republican calendar. The year was divided
							into twelve months of thirty days each. The five days preceding September 22, at the
							end of the year, were holidays. Each month was divided into three décades, and each "tenth day" (décadi) was a holiday. The
							days were no longer dedicated to saints, but to agricultural implements, vegetables,
							domestic animals, etc.

						

						The September massacres (1792)

						Meanwhile the usurping Paris commune had taken matters into its own hands and had
							brought discredit upon the cause of liberty by one of the most atrocious acts in
							history. On the pretext that Paris was full of .traitors who sympathized with the
							Austrians and the emigrant nobles, they had filled the prisons with three thousand
							citizens, including many of the priests who had refused to take the oath required by
							the Constitution. On September 2 and 3, hundreds of these were executed with scarcely
							a pretense of a trial. The excuse offered was: "How can we go away to the war and
							leave behind us three thousand prisoners who may break out and destroy our wives and
							our children!" The members of the commune who perpetrated this deed probably hoped to
							terrify those who might still dream of returning to the old system of government.

						The Prussian army checked at Valmy

						Late in August the Prussians crossed the French boundary and on September z took the
							fortress of Verdun. It now seemed as if there was nothing to prevent their marching
							upon Paris. The French general, Dumouriez, blocked the advance of the Prussian army,
							however, at Valmy, scarcely a hundred miles from the capital, and forced the enemy to
							retreat without fighting a pitched battle. Notwithstanding the fear of the French,
							King Frederick William II of Prussia (who had succeeded his uncle, Frederick the
							Great, six years before) had but little interest in the war. As for the Austrian
							troops, they were lagging far behind, for both powers were far more absorbed in a
							second partition of Poland, which was approaching, than in the fate of the French
							king.

						The French occupy Savoy, the Rhine valley, and the Netherlands

						The French were able, therefore, in spite of their disorganization, not only to expel
							the Prussians but to carry the Revolution beyond the bounds of France. They invaded
							Germany and took several important towns on the Rhine, including Mayence, which gladly
							opened its gates to them. They also occupied Savoy on the southeast. Then Dumouriez
							led his barefooted, ill-equipped volunteers into the Austrian Netherlands.  This time they did not run away, but, shouting the
							"Marseillaise," they defeated the Austrians at Jemappes (November 6) and were soon in
							possession of the whole country.

						How the Convention proposed to spread the Revolution abroad (December
							15, 1792)

						The Convention now proposed to use its armies to revolutionize Europe. It issued a
							proclamation addressed to the peoples of the countries that France was occupying: "We
							have driven out your tyrants. Show yourselves freemen and we will protect you from
							their vengeance." Feudal dues, unjust taxes, and all the burdens which had been
							devised by the "tyrants" were forthwith abolished, and the French nation declared that
							it would treat as enemies every people who, "refusing liberty and equality, or
							renouncing them, may wish to maintain or recall its prince or the privileged
								classes."1

						Trial and execution of the king (January, 1793)

						Meanwhile the Convention was puzzled to determine what would best be done with the
							king. A considerable party felt that he was guilty of treason in secretly encouraging
							the foreign powers to come to his aid. He was therefore brought to trial, and when it
							came to a final vote he was, by a small majority, condemned to death. He mounted the
							scaffold on January 21, 1793, with the fortitude of a martyr. Nevertheless it cannot
							be denied that, through his earlier weakness and indecision, he brought untold misery
							upon his own kingdom and upon Europe at large. The French people had not dreamed of a
							republic until his absolute incompetence forced them, in self-defense, to abolish the
							monarchy in the hope of securing a more efficient government.

						The execution of Louis XVI solidifies the alliance against
							France

						The execution of Louis XVI had immediate and unhappy effects. The Convention had
							thrown down the head of their king as a challenge to the "despots" of Europe; the
							monarchs accepted the challenge and the French republic soon found all the powers of
							Europe ranged against it. Nowhere did the tragic event of January 21 produce more
							momentous results than in England. George III went into mourning and ordered the
							French envoy to be expelled from the kingdom; 1 This decree may be found in the Readings, sect. 38.
							
							
							 
							
							 even Pitt, forgetting the work of Cromwell and the
							Puritan revolutionists, declared the killing of the French king to be the most awful
							and atrocious crime in all recorded history. All England's old fears of French
							aggression were aroused. It was clear that the Republic was bent upon carrying out the
							plans of Louis XIV for annexing the Austrian Netherlands and Holland and thereby
							extending her frontiers to the Rhine. Indeed there was no telling where the excited
							nation, in its fanatical hatred of kings, would stop.

						Pitt declares that England must oppose the Revolution

						On February 1 Pitt made a speech in the House of Commons in which he accused the
							French of having broken their promises not to conquer their neighbors or mix in their
							affairs. They had seized the Netherlands and had declared the river Scheldt open to
							commerce although it had been closed by the Treaty of Westphalia (1648) in the
							interests of the Dutch ports. They had already occupied Savoy and now threatened
							Holland. They loudly proclaimed their intention to free all peoples from the dominion
							of their rulers. Consequently the Revolution was, Pitt urged, incompatible with the
							peace of Europe, and England must in honor join the allies and save Europe from
							falling under the yoke of France.1

						France declares war on England (February 1, 1793) and gives her
							reasons

						On the same day that Pitt made his speech, the French Convention boldly declared war
							upon England and Holland on the ground that "the king of England has not ceased,
							especially since the Revolution of August 10, 1792, to give the French nation proofs
							of his ill-will and his attachment to the coalition of crowned heads." He had expelled
							the French envoy, flooded France with forged assignats,
							prevented grain from reaching French ports, and drawn the "servile" Dutch Stadholder
							into an alliance against France. No one could have foreseen that England, the last of
							the European powers to join the coalition against France, was to prove her most 1 Many Englishmen sympathized
								with the Revolution. Against Pitt's arguments some of the Whigs, especially Fox,
								urged in vain the bloody manifesto of the duke of Brunswick which had maddened the
								French, and the atrocious conduct of the allies in the partition of Poland upon
								which they were just then engaged.
							 persistent enemy. For over twenty years the struggle
							was to continue, until an English ship carried Napoleon Bonaparte to his island
							prison.

						Second partition of Poland (1793)

						Catharine the Great abhorred the revolutionists, but she had contented herself with
							encouraging Austria and Prussia to fight for Louis XVI and the rights of monarchs in
							general, while she prepared to seize more than her share of Poland. Frederick William
							and the Emperor were well aware of her plans, and consequently felt that they must
							keep their eyes on her rather than move on Paris. This accounts, in a measure, for the
							ease with which the French had repulsed the allies and taken possession of the
							Austrian Netherlands in the autumn of 1792. It was in the following January that
							Prussia and Russia arranged the second partition of Poland. Austria, as has been
								explained,1 was treated very
							shabbily and forced to go without her share on the flimsy pretense that Frederick
							William and Catharine would use their good offices to induce the elector of Bavaria to
							exchange his possessions for the Austrian Netherlands,-- which were at that moment in
							the hands of Dumouriez's republican troops.

						French driven from the Netherlands; desertion of Dumouriez

						This adjustment of the differences between the allies gave a wholly new aspect to the
							war with France. When, in March, 1793, Spain and the Holy Roman Empire joined the
							coalition, France was at war with all her neighbors. The Austrians defeated Dumouriez
							at Neerwinden, March 18, and drove the French out of the Netherlands. Thereupon
							Dumouriez, disgusted by the failure of the Convention to support him and by their
							execution of the king, and angered by the outrageous manner in which their
							commissioners levied contributions from the people to whom they had brought "liberty,"
							deserted to the enemy with a few hundred soldiers who consented to follow him.

						The allies consider a possible partition of France

						Encouraged by this success, the allies began to consider partitioning France as they
							had Poland. Austria might take 1 See above, p. 69.
							 the northern regions for herself and then assign Alsace
							and Lorraine to Bavaria in exchange for the Bavarian territory on her boundaries,
							which Austria had long wished to annex. England could have Dunkirk and what remained
							of the French colonies. A Russian diplomat suggested that Spain and the king of
							Sardinia should also help themselves. "This done, let us all work in concert to give
							what remains of France a stable and permanent monarchical government. She will in this
							way become a second-rate power which will harm no one, and we shall get rid of this
							democratic firebrand which threatens to set Europe aflame."

						The French government put in the hands of the Committee of Public
							Safety, April, 1793

						The loss of the Netherlands and the treason of their best general made a deep
							impression upon the members of the put Convention. If the new French republic was to
							defend itself against the "tyrants" without and its many enemies within, it could not
							wait for the Convention to draw up an elaborate, permanent constitution. An efficient
							government must be devised immediately to maintain the loyalty of the nation to the
							republic, and to raise and equip armies and direct their commanders. The Convention
							accordingly put the government into the hands of a small committee, consisting
							originally of nine, later of twelve, of its members. This famous Committee of Public
							Safety was given practically unlimited powers. "We must," one of the leaders
							exclaimed, "establish the despotism of liberty in order to crush the despotism of
							kings."

						The Girondists

						Within the Convention itself there was dissension, especially between two groups of
							active men who came into bitter conflict over the policy to be pursued. There was,
							first, the party of the Girondists, led by Vergniaud, Brissot, and others. They were
							enthusiastic republicans and counted among their numbers some speakers of remarkable
							eloquence. The Girondists had enjoyed the control of the Legislative Assembly in 1792
							and had been active in bringing on the war with Austria and Prussia. They hoped in
							that way to complete the Revolution by exposing the bad faith of the king and his
							sympathy with the  emigrant nobles. They were not,
							however, men of sufficient decision to direct affairs in the terrible difficulties in
							which France found herself after the execution of the king. They consequently lost
							their influence, and a new party, called the "Mountain" from the high seats that they
							occupied in the Convention, gained the ascendency.

						The extreme republicans called the "Mountain"

						This was composed of the most vigorous and uncompromising republicans, like Danton,
							Robespierre, and Saint-Just, who had obtained control of the Jacobin clubs and were
							supported by the commune of Paris. They believed that the French people had been
							depraved by the slavery to which their kings had subjected them. Everything, they
							argued, which suggested the former rule of kings must be wiped out. A new France
							should be created, in which liberty, equality, and fraternity should take the place of
							the tyranny of princes, the insolence of nobles, and the impostures of the priests.
							The leaders of the Mountain held that the mass of the people were by nature good and
							upright, but that there were a number of adherents of the old system who would, if
							they could, undo the great work of the Revolution and lead the people back to slavery
							under king and Church. All who were suspected by the Mountain of having the least
							sympathy with the nobles or the persecuted priests were branded as
							"counter-revolutionary." The Mountain was willing to resort to any measures, however
							shocking, to rid the nation of those suspected of counter-revolutionary tendencies,
							and its leaders relied upon the populace of Paris to aid them in carrying out their
							designs.

						Girondist leaders expelled from the Convention, June 2, 1793

						The Girondists, on the other hand, abhorred the restless populace of Paris and the
							fanatics who composed the commune of the capital. They argued that Paris was not
							France, and that it had no right to assume a despotic rule over the nation. They
							proposed that the commune should be dissolved and that the Convention should remove to
							another town where they would not be subject to the intimidation of the Paris mob. The
							Mountain thereupon accused the Girondists of an attempt 
							to break up the republic, "one and indivisible," by questioning the supremacy of Paris
							and the duty of the provinces to follow the lead of the capital. The mob, thus
							encouraged, rose against the Girondists. On June 2 it surrounded the meeting place of
							the Convention, and deputies of the commune demanded the expulsion from the Convention
							of the Girondist leaders, who were placed under arrest.

						France threatened with civil war

						The conduct of the Mountain and its ally, the Paris commune, now began to arouse
							opposition in various parts of France, and the country was threatened with civil war
							at a time when it was absolutely necessary that all Frenchmen should combine in the
							loyal defense of their country against the invaders who were again approaching its
							boundaries.

						The revolt of the peasants of Brittany against the Convention

						The first and most serious opposition came from the peasants of Brittany, especially
							in the department of La Vendée. There the people still loved the monarchy and their
							priests, and even the nobles; they refused to send their sons to fight or a republic
							which had killed their king and was persecuting those clergymen who declined to take
							an oath which their conscience forbade.

						Revolt of the cities against the Convention

						The cities of Marseilles and Bordeaux were indignant at the treatment to which the
							Girondist deputies were subjected in Paris, and they also organized a revolt against
							the Convention. In the manufacturing city of Lyons the merchants hated the Jacobins
							and their republic, since the demand for silk and other luxuries produced at Lyons had
							come from the nobility and clergy, who were now no longer in a position to buy. The
							prosperous classes were therefore exasperated when the commissioners of the Convention
							demanded money and troops. The citizens gathered an army of ten thousand men, placed
							it under a royalist leader, and prepared to bid defiance to the Jacobins who
							controlled the Convention.

						French fortresses fall into the hands of Austria and England (July,
							1793)

						Meanwhile France's enemies were again advancing against her. The Austrians laid siege
							to the border fortress of Condé, which they captured on July 10, 1793, and two weeks
							later  the English took Valenciennes. In this way the
							allies gained a foothold in France itself. Once more they were hardly more than a
							hundred miles away from the capital, and there appeared to be no reason why they
							should not immediately march upon Paris and wreak the vengeance which the duke of
							Brunswick had threatened in his proclamation of the previous year. The Prussians had
							driven the French garrison out of Mayence and were ready to advance into Alsace.
							Toulon, the great naval station of southern France, now revolted against the
							Convention. It proclaimed the little dauphin as king, under the title of Louis XVII,
							and welcomed the English fleet as an ally.

						Carnot organized the French armies

						The French Republic seemed to be lost; but never did a the body of men exhibit such
							marvelous energy as the Committee of Public Safety. Carnot, who was to earn the title
							of Organizer of Victory, became a member of the committee in August. He immediately
							called for a general levy of troops and soon had no less than seven hundred and fifty
							thousand men. These he divided into thirteen armies which he dispatched against the
							allies. Each general was accompanied by two "deputies on mission" who were always on
							the watch lest the commanders desert, as Lafayette had done after August 10, 1792, and
							Dumouriez a few months later. These Jacobin deputies not only roused the patriotism of
							the raw recruits, but they let it be known that for a general to lose a battle meant
							death.

						The French easily repulse the allies

						Fortunately for the Convention the allies did not march on Paris, but Austria began
							occupying the border towns and the English moved westward to seize the coveted
							Dunkirk. The French were able to drive off the English and Hanoverians who were
							besieging Dunkirk, and in October General Jourdan defeated the Austrians at
							Wattignies. Since Frederick William continued to give his attention mainly to Poland,
							there was little danger from the duke of Brunswick and his army, so that by the close
							of 1793 all danger from foreign invasion was over for the time being.

						

						The revolt of the cities suppressed by the Committee of Public
							Safety

						As for the revolt of the cities and of the Vendean peasants, the Committee of Public
							Safety showed itself able to cope with that danger too. It first turned its attention
							to Lyons. Some of the troops from the armies on the frontiers were recalled and the
							city was bombarded and captured. Then Collot d'Herbois, one of the stanchest believers
							in terrorism, was sent down to demonstrate to the conquered city what a fearful thing
							it was to rise against the Mountain. Nearly two thousand persons were executed, or
							rather massacred, as traitors, within five months. Indeed the Convention declared its
							intention to annihilate the great and flourishing city and rename its site Freedville
								(Commune affranchie). Happily a close friend of Robespierre, who
							was sent to execute this decree, contented himself with destroying forty houses.

						Bonaparte at Toulon

						Frightened by the awful fate of Lyons, the cities of Bordeaux and Marseilles judged
							it useless to oppose the Convention and admitted its representatives, who executed
							three or four hundred "traitors" in each place. Toulon held out until an artillery
							officer hitherto entirely unknown, a young Corsican by the name of Napoleon Bonaparte,
							suggested occupying a certain promontory in the harbor, from which he was able to
							train his cannon on the British fleet which was supporting the city. It sailed away
							with some refugees, leaving the town to the vengeance of the Convention, December 19,
							1793.

						Defeat of the peasants of the Vendée

						Although the Vendean peasants fought bravely and defeated several corps of the
							national guard sent against them, their insurrection was also put down in the autumn--
							at least for a time-- with atrocious cruelty. A representative of the Convention at
							Nantes had perhaps two thousand Vendean insurgents shot or drowned in the Loire. This
							was probably the most horrible episode of the Revolution, and was not approved by the
							Convention, which recalled its bloodthirsty agent, who was finally sent to the
							scaffold for his crimes.

						The Reign of Terror

						In spite of the extraordinary success with which the Committee of Public Safety had
							crushed its opponents at home and  repelled the armies
							of the monarchs who proposed to dismember France, it was clear that the task of
							rendering the Revolution complete and permanent was by no means accomplished. The
							revolt of the Vendée and of the cities had shown that there were thousands of
							Frenchmen who hated the Jacobins. All such were viewed by the Convention as guilty of
							holding counter-revolutionary sentiments and therefore "suspect." It was argued that
							any one who was not an ardent and demonstrative sans-culotte might
							at any time become a traitor. In order to prevent this and force people to be faithful
							to the republic, the Convention decided that they must be terrorized by observing the
							fearful vengeance which the republic wrought upon traitors. The Reign of Terror was
							only a systematic attempt to secure the success of the Revolution by summarily
							punishing or intimidating its enemies. While it had no definite beginning or end, it
							lasted, in its more acute stages, for about ten months,-- from September, 1793 to
							July, 1794.

						The Revolutionary Tribunal

						Even before the fall of the Girondists a special court had been established in Paris,
							known as the Revolutionary Tribunal. Its function was to try all those who were
							suspected of treasonable acts. At first the cases were very carefully considered and
							few persons were condemned. In September, after the revolt of the cities, two new men
							who had been implicated in the September massacres were added to the Committee of
							Public Safety. They were selected with the particular purpose of intimidating the
							counter-revolutionary party by bringing all the disaffected to the guillotine.1 A terrible law was passed,
							declaring all those to be suspects who by their conduct or remarks had shown
							themselves enemies of liberty. The former nobles, including the wives, fathers,
							mothers, and children of the "emigrants," 1 In former times it had been customary to inflict capital
								punishment by decapitating the victim with a sword. At the opening of the Revolution
								a certain Dr. Guillotin recommended a new device, which consisted of a heavy knife
								sliding downward between two uprights. This instrument, called after him the
								guillotine, which has until very recently been used in France, was more speedy and
								certain in its action than the sword in the hands of the executioner.
							 unless they had constantly manifested their attachment
							to the Revolution, were ordered to be imprisoned.

						Execution of Marie Antoinette (October, 1793)

						In October Marie Antoinette, after a trial in which false and atrocious charges were
							urged against her in addition to the treasonable acts of which she had been guilty,
							was executed in Paris. A number of high-minded and distinguished persons, including
							Madame Roland and a group of Girondists, suffered a like fate. But the most horrible
							acts of the Reign of Terror were, as has been noted, perpetrated in the provinces,
							especially at Lyons and Nantes.

						Schism in the party of the Mountain

						It was not long before the members of the radical party who were conducting the
							government began to disagree among party themselves. Danton, a man of fiery zeal for
							the republic, who had hitherto enjoyed great popularity with the Jacobins, became
							tired of bloodshed and convinced that the system of terror was no longer necessary.
							Camille Desmoulins, another ardent republican, began to attack the harsher Jacobins as
							he had earlier attacked the unpractical Girondists. He started a witty but very
							serious little newspaper, called The Old Cordelier, in the interests
							of moderation.

						The Vieux Cordelier of Desmoulins

						Desmoulins began by showing that the severities of the Reign of Terror were, after
							all, as nothing compared with the atrocities of the earlier Roman emperors which one
							read about in Tacitus. "Vice, pillage, and crime are diseases in republics, whereas
							rogues are absolutely necessary to the maintenance of a monarchy." In his next issue
							he ceased to extenuate the work of the guillotine and pleaded for clemency. "You would
							exterminate all your enemies by the guillotine! What madness! Can you possibly destroy
							one enemy on the scaffold without making ten others among his family and friends?" The
							strong and courageous, as Desmoulins urged, had emigrated or perished at Lyons or in
							the Vendée. The cowardly or sick who remained were no source of danger. So Terror
							should no longer be the order of the day, and a committee of clemency should take the
							place of the revolutionary army that  was traveling
							about the country with a movable guillotine. "This committee of clemency," he said,
							"will complete the Revolution, for clemency itself is a revolutionary measure, the
							most efficient of all, when it is wisely dealt out."1

						Hébert and the ultra-radicals

						On the other hand, the radical leader of the Paris commune, Hébert, had also his
							newspaper, an indecent sheet which called on the people to complete the Revolution. He
							proposed that the worship of Reason should be substituted for that of God and arranged
							a service in the cathedral of Notre Dame where Reason, in the person of a handsome
							actress, took her place on the altar.

						Robespierre and Saint-Just

						Robespierre, who was a member of the Committee of Public Safety, sympathized neither
							with the moderates nor with Hébert and his Goddess of Reason. He himself enjoyed a
							great reputation for high ideals, republican virtue, and incorruptibility. He and
							Saint-Just had read their Rousseau with prayerful attention and dreamed of a glorious
							republic in which there should be neither rich nor poor; in which men and women should
							live in independence and rear robust and healthy children. These should be turned over
							to the republic at five years of age to be educated in Spartan fashion by the nation;
							they were to eat together and to live on roots, fruit, vegetables, milk, cheese,
							bread, and water. The Eternal was to be worshiped in temples, and in these temples at
							certain times every man should be required publicly to state who were his friends. Any
							man who said he had no friends, or was convicted of ingratitude, was to be
								banished.2

						Robespierre has the leaders of both the moderates and extremists
							executed (March and April, 1794)

						Robespierre was, however, insignificant and unattractive in person and a tiresome
							speaker. He had none of the magnetism of Danton and none of the wit and charm of
							Desmoulins. He coldly advocated the execution of these two former associates for
							attempting to betray the republic and frustrate the 1 See extracts from The Old
									Cordelier in Readings, sect. 38.
							2 See Readings, sect. 38, for extracts from Saint-Just's book on Republican Institutions.
							 Revolution by their ill-timed moderation. On the other
							hand, as a deist, he believed that Hébert and his followers were discrediting the
							Revolution by their atheism. Accordingly, through his influence, the leaders of both
							the moderate and the extreme parties were arrested and sent to the guillotine (March
							and April, 1794).

						Robespierre's brief period of influence

						Robespierre now enjoyed a brief dictatorship. He read in the Convention a report on a
							system of festivals which were to help regenerate the land by celebrating such
							abstractions as liberty, equality, glory, immortality, frugality, stoicism, and old
							age. He had a decree passed proclaiming that the French nation believed in God and the
							immortality of the soul, and organized a ceremony in honor of the Supreme Being in
							which he himself assumed a very conspicuous rôle as a sort of high priest of deism.
							The Convention was so far in sympathy with the aspirations of Robespierre and
							Saint-Just as to assert that "it is necessary to refashion a people completely if it
							is to be made free. Its prejudices must be destroyed, its habits changed, its needs
							limited, its vices eradicated, and its desires purified. Strong forces must be invoked
							to develop social virtues and repress the passions of men."

						Law of 22d Prairial heightens the Reign of Terror

						In order the more effectively to destroy his enemies and those who opposed his
							designs for the regeneration of society, Robespierre had the Revolutionary Tribunal
							divided into four sections (June 10, 1794), so that it could work far more rapidly
							than hitherto. It could condemn any suspected "enemy of the people " on almost any
							evidence. The accused were in many cases deprived of counsel and no witnesses were
							examined. The result was that in seven weeks thirteen hundred and seventy-six persons
							were sent to the guillotine in Paris, whereas only eleven hundred and sixty-five had
							been executed from December 1 of the previous year to the passage of Robespierre's
							terrible new law in June.

						Fall of Robespierre on the 9th Thermidor (July 27, 1794)

						It was of course impossible for Robespierre to maintain his power long. Many of his
							colleagues in the Convention began  to fear that they
							might at any moment follow Danton and Hébert to the guillotine. They did not
							sympathize very deeply with Robespierre's ideas; as one of the most ardent terrorists
							said, "Robespierre begins to bore me with his Supreme Being." A conspiracy was formed
							against him and the Convention was induced to order his arrest. When, on July 27,--
							the 9th Thermidor of the new republican calendar,-- he appeared in the Convention and
							attempted to speak he was silenced by cries of "Down with the tyrant!" In his
							consternation he could not at first recover his voice, whereupon one of the deputies
							shouted, "The blood of Danton chokes him!" Finally he called upon the commune of Paris
							to defend him, but the Convention was able to maintain its authority and to send
							Robespierre and Saint-Just, his fellow-idealist, to the guillotine. It is sad enough
							that two of the most sincere and upright of all the revolutionists should, in their
							misguided and over-earnest efforts to better the condition of their fellow-men, have
							become objects of execration to posterity.

						Reaction after the overthrow of Robespierre

						In successfully overthrowing Robespierre the Convention and Committee of Public
							Safety had rid the country of the only man who, owing to his popularity and his
							reputation for uprightness, could have prolonged the Reign of Terror. There was almost
							an immediate reaction after his death, for the country was weary of executions. The
							Revolutionary Tribunal henceforth convicted very few indeed of those who were brought
							before it. It made an exception, however, of those who had themselves been the leaders
							in the worst atrocities, as, for example, the public prosecutor, who had brought
							hundreds of victims to the guillotine in Paris, and the terrorists who had ordered the
							massacres at Nantes and Lyons. Within a few months the Jacobin Club at Paris was
							closed by the Convention and the commune of Paris abolished.

						Review of the Reign of Terror
						First state

						The importance and nature of the Reign of Terror are so commonly misunderstood that
							it is worth our while to stop a moment to reconsider it as a whole. When the Estates
								 General met, the people of France were loyal to their
							king but wished to establish a more orderly government; they wanted to vote the taxes,
							have some share in making the laws, and abolish the old feudal abuses, including the
							unreasonable privileges of the nobility and the clergy. The nobility were frightened
							and began to run away. The king and queen urged foreign powers to intervene and even
							tried to escape to join the traitorous emigrant nobles. Austrian and Prussian troops
							reached the frontier and the Prussian commander threatened to destroy Paris unless the
							royal family were given complete liberty. Paris, aided by the men of Marseilles,
							retaliated by deposing the king, and the Convention decided by a narrow majority to
							execute Louis XVI for treason, of which he was manifestly guilty. In the summer, just
							as Austria and England were taking the French border fortresses of Condé and
							Valenciennes, the cities of Lyons, Marseilles, and Toulon and the peasants of the
							Vendée revolted. The necessity of making head against invasion and putting down the
							insurrection at home led to harsh measures on the part of the Convention and its
							Committee of Public Safety.

						Second state

						When the immediate danger was dispelled Robespierre, Saint-Just, and others sought to
							exterminate the enemies of that utopian republic of which they dreamed and in which
							every man was to have a fair chance in life. This led to the second, and perhaps less
							excusable, phase of the Reign of Terror. To the executions sanctioned by the
							government must be added the massacres and lynchings perpetrated by mobs or by
							irresponsible agents of the Convention. Yet Camille Desmoulins was right when he
							claimed that the blood that had flowed "for the eternal emancipation of a nation of
							twenty-five millions" was as nothing to that shed by the Roman emperors (and it may be
							added, by bishops and kings), often in less worthy causes.

						A great part of the French people unaffected by the Reign of
							Terror

						Then it should be remembered that a great part of the French people were nearly or
							quite unaffected by the Reign  of Terror. In Paris very
							few of the citizens stood in any fear of the guillotine. The city was not the gloomy
							place that it has been pictured by Dickens and other story-tellers. Never did the
							inhabitants appear happier than when the country was being purged of the supposed
							traitors; never were the theaters and restaurants more crowded. The guillotine was
							making way with the enemies of liberty, so the women wore tiny guillotines as
							ornaments, and the children were given toy guillotines and amused themselves
							decapitating the figures of "aristocrats."

						Sound reforms introduced by the Convention
						The metric system

						Moreover the Convention had by no means confined its attention during the months of
							the Reign of Terror to hunting down "suspects" and executing traitors. Its committees
							had raised a million troops, organized and equipped them with arms, and sent them
							forth to victory. The reforms sketched out by the National Assembly had been developed
							and carried on. The Convention had worked out a great system of elementary education
							which should form the basis of the new republic. It had drafted a new code of laws
							which should replace the confusion of the ancien régime, although it
							was left for Napoleon to order its revision and gain the credit of the enterprise. The
							republican calendar was not destined to survive, but the rational system of weights
							and measures known as the metric system, which the Convention introduced, has been
							adopted by most of the nations of Continental Europe and is used by men of science in
							England and America.

						Anxiety of the Convention to blot out all suggestions of the
							past
						The Convention's efforts to improve the condition of the poorer
							classes

						In its anxiety to obliterate every suggestion of the old order of things, the
							Convention went to excess. The old terms of address, Monsieur and Madame, seemed to
							smack of the ancien régime and so were replaced by "citizen" and
							"citizeness." The days were no longer dedicated to St. Peter, St. James, St. Bridget,
							or St. Catharine, but to the cow, the horse, celery, the turnip, the harrow, the
							pitchfork, or other useful creature or utensil. The Place Louis XV became Place de la
							Revolution. Throne Square was rechristened Place of the Overturned  Throne. The Convention endeavored to better the condition
							of the poor man and deprive the rich of their superfluity. The land which had been
							taken from the Church and the runaway nobles was sold in small parcels and the number
							of small land-holders was thus greatly increased. In May, 1793, the Convention tried
							to keep down the price of grain by passing the Law of the Maximum, which forbade the
							selling of grain and flour at a higher price than that fixed by each commune. This was
							later extended to other forms of food and worked quite as badly as the grain laws
							which Turgot had abolished.

						Trouble with depreciated paper money

						The reckless increase of the paper currency, or assignats, and the
							efforts to prevent their depreciation by a law which made it a capital offense to
							refuse to accept them at par caused infinite confusion. There were about forty
							billions of francs of these assignats in circulation at the opening
							of the year 1796. At that time it required nearly three hundred francs in paper to
							procure one in specie.

						Constitution of the Year III
						The Directory

						At last the Convention turned its attention once more to the special work for which
							it had been summoned in September, 1792, and drew up a constitution for the republic.
							This was preceded by a "Declaration of the Rights and Duties of Man and the Citizen,"
							which summed up, as the first Declaration of Rights had done, the great principles of
							the Revolution.1 The lawmaking
							power is vested by the Constitution of the Year III in a Legislative Body to be
							composed of two chambers, the Council of Five Hundred and the Council of the Elders
							(consisting of two hundred and fifty members). Members of the latter were to be at
							least forty years old and either married or widowers. Practically all men over
							twenty-one years of age were permitted to vote for the members of the electoral
							colleges, which in turn chose the members of the 1 All the duties of man and the citizen are
								derived, according to this constitution, from two principles which are graven by
								nature in the hearts of all: Ne faites pas à autrui ce que vous ne voudriez pas
								qu'on vous fit. Faites constamment aux autres le bien que vous voudriez en recevoir.
								This is after all only an amplification of the Golden Rule.
							 Legislative Body. To take the place of a king, a
							Directory composed of five members chosen by the Legislative Body was invested with
							the executive power. One director was to retire each year, as well as one third of the
							members of the Legislative Body (a system suggesting that of the United States
							Senate).

						Opposition to the convention

						Before the Convention completed the constitution its enemies had become very strong.
							The richer classes had once more got the upper hand; they abhorred the Convention
							which had killed their king and oppressed them, and they favored the reëstablishment
							of the monarchy without the abuses of the ancien régime. The
							Convention, fearing for itself and the republic, decreed that in the approaching
							election, at least two thirds of the new Legislative Body were to be chosen from the
							existing members of the Convention. Believing that it could rely upon the armies, it
							ordered that the constitution should be submitted to the soldiers for ratification and
							that bodies of troops should be collected near Paris to maintain order during the
							elections. These decrees roused the anger of the wealthier districts of Paris which
							did not hesitate to organize a revolt and prepare to attack the Convention.

						The 13th Vendémiaire (October 5, 1795)

						The latter, however, chose for its defender that same Napoleon Bonaparte who, after
							helping to take Toulon, had resigned his commission rather than leave the artillery
							and join the infantry as he had been ordered to do, and was earning a bare subsistence
							as a clerk in a government office. Bonaparte stationed the regulars around the
							building in which the Convention sat and then loaded his cannon with grapeshot. When
							the bourgeois national guard attacked him, he gave the order to fire and easily swept
							them from the streets.1 The
							royalists were defeated. The day had been saved for the Convention by the army and by
							a military genius who was destined soon not only to make himself master of France but
							to build up an empire comprising a great part of western Europe.

						1 More people were killed
							on the, 13th Vendémiaire than on August 10, 1792, when the monarchy was
							overthrown.
					

					

					

						REFERENCES
								End of the National Assembly: MATHEWS,
										French Revolution, chap. xiii, pp. 166-181 ; STEPHENS, History of the French Revolution, Vol. I, chap.
									xv, pp. 434-470; Cambridge Modern History, Vol. VIII, pp.
									199-210.
								Opening of the War with Europe: MATHEWS,
									pp. 182-195; STEPHENS, Vol. II, pp. 27-44; FYFFE, History of Modern Europe, pp. 28-40.
								Conditions in Europe in 1792: FYFFE,
									chap. i, pp. 1-27.
								Tenth of August and the September Massacres: STEPHENS, Vol. II, chap. iv, pp. 107-150; MATHEWS, pp.
									195-206; Cambridge Modern History, Vol. VIII, pp.
									228-244.
								Establishment of the Republic: MATHEWS,
									chap. xv, pp. 207-224; STEPHENS, Vol. II, chap. v, pp.
									151-180.
								Reign of Terror in Paris: STEPHENS, Vol.
									II, chap. x, pp. 321-361; MATHEWS, chap. xvi, pp. 224-233; Cambridge Modern History, Vol. VIII, chap. xii, pp.
									338-371.
								Reign of Terror in the Provinces: MATHEWS, chap. xvii, pp. 234-251; STEPHENS, Vol. II, chap.
									xi, pp. 362-414.
								Robespierre: MATHEWS, chap. xviii, pp.
									252-265.
								Reaction after Thermidor: MATHEWS, chap.
									xix, pp. 266-285; Cambridge Modern History, Vol. VIII, chap.
									xiii, pp. 372-397.
								Course of the War to 1795: FYFFE, chap.
									ii, pp. 28-73; Cambridge Modern History, chap. xiv, pp.
									398-446.
					
				

				
					

					CHAPTER VIII
						NAPOLEON BONAPARTE

					
						BONAPARTE'S FIRST ITALIAN CAMPAIGN

						How the Revolution transformed and democratized the army

						24. The French army had undergone a complete transformation during
							the Revolution. The rules of the ancien regime had required all officers to be nobles,
							and many of these had left France after the fall of the Bastille. Others, like
							Lafayette and Dumouriez, who had at first favored the Revolution, deserted soon after
							the opening of the war. Still others, like Custine and Beauharnais (the Empress
							Josephine's first husband), were executed because the "deputies on mission" believed
							that they were responsible for the defeats that the armies of the French republic had
							suffered.

						The former rigid discipline disappeared, and the hundreds of thousands of volunteers
							who pressed forward to defend and extend the boundaries of the Republic found new
							leaders, who rose from the ranks, and who hit upon novel and quite unconventional ways
							of beating the enemy. Any one might now become a general if he could prove his ability
							to lead troops to victory. Moreau was a lawyer from Brittany, Murat had been a waiter,
							Jourdan before the Revolution had been selling cloth in Limoges. In short, the army,
							like the State, had become democratic.

						The Napoleonic Period

						Among the commanders who by means of their talents rose to take the places of the
							"aristocrats" was one who was to dominate the history of Europe as no man before him
							had ever done. For fifteen years his biography and the political history of Europe are
							so nearly synonymous that the period we are now entering upon may properly be called
							after him, the Napoleonic Period.

						

						Napoleon Bonaparte (b. 1769) a Corsican by birth, an Italian by
							descent

						Napoleon Bonaparte was hardly a Frenchman by birth. It is true that the island of
							Corsica where he was born, August 15, 1769, had at that time belonged to France for a
								year,1 but Napoleon's native
							language was Italian, and he was descended from Italian ancestors who had come to the
							island in the sixteenth century. His father, Carlo Buonaparte, although he claimed to
							be of noble extraction, busied himself with the profession of the law in the town of
							Ajaccio where Napoleon was probably born. He was poor and found it hard to support his
							eight boys and girls, all of whom were one day to become kings and queens, or at
							worst, princes and princesses. Accordingly he took his two elder sons, Joseph and
							Napoleon, to France, where Joseph was to be educated for the priesthood and Napoleon,
							who was but ten years old, after learning a little French was to prepare for the army
							in the military academy at Brienne.

						Bonaparte at the military school (1779-1784)

						Here the boy led an unhappy life for five or six years. He soon came to hate the
							young French nobles with whom he was associated. He wrote to his father, "I am tired
							of exposing my poverty and seeing these shameless boys laughing over it, for they are
							superior to me only in wealth and infinitely beneath me in noble sentiments."
							Gradually the ambition to free his little island country from French control developed
							in him.

						His political intrigues in Corsica
						The Bonapartes banished from Corsica (1793)

						On completing his course in the military school he was made second lieutenant. Poor
							and without influence, he had little hope of any considerable advance in the French
							army, and he was drawn to his own country both by a desire to play a political r61le
							there and to help his family, which had been left in straitened circumstances by his
							father's death. He therefore absented himself from his command as often and as long as
							he could, and engaged in a series of intrigues in Corsica in the hope of getting
							control of the forces of the island. He 1 It is possible that Bonaparte was born in the previous year,
								when Corsica still belonged to the republic of Genoa.
							 fell into disfavor, however, with the authorities, and
							he and his family were banished in 1793, and fled to France.

						How Bonaparte won the confidence of Barras and the Directory
						Napoleon marries Josephine Beauharnais

						The following three years were for Bonaparte a period of great uncertainty. He had
							lost his love for Corsica and as yet had found no foothold in France. Soon after his
							return his knowledge of artillery enabled him, as we have seen, to suggest a
							successful method of capturing.Toulon; and two years later his friend Barras selected
							him to defend the Convention against its enemies on the 13th Vend6miaire. This was the
							beginning of his career, for Barras, who had been chosen a member of the Directory,
							introduced him into the gay and reckless social circle to which he belonged. Here he
							met and fell in love with the charming widow of poor General Beauharnais, who had lost
							his head just before Thermidor. Madame Beauharnais accepted the pale, nervous little
							republican officer in spite of his awkward manners and ill-fitting uniform. Nine years
							later he was able to place an imperial crown upon her brow.

						Bonaparte made commander in chief of the army of Italy (1796)

						In the spring of 1796 Bonaparte was selected by the Directory to command one of the
							three armies which it was sending against Austria. This important appointment at the
							age of twenty-seven forms the opening of an astonishing military career which can be
							compared only with that of Alexander the Great.

						How Prussia and Austria neglected the war with France in 1794

						France, as has been pointed out, found herself in 1793 at war with Austria, Prussia,
							England, Holland, Spain, the Holy Roman Empire, Sardinia, the Kingdom of Naples (i.e.
							of the Two Sicilies), and Tuscany. This formidable alliance, however, only succeeded
							in taking a few border fortresses which the French easily regained. Prussia and
							Austria were far more interested in Poland, where a third and last partition was
							pending, than in fighting the Revolution and keeping the French out of the Austrian
							Netherlands. The Polish patriot, Kosciusko, had led a revolt of the Poles against
							their oppressors, and the Russian garrison which Catharine had placed in Warsaw was
							cut down by the Polish rebels in April, 1794. Catharine then  appealed to Frederick William for assistance. He therefore turned his
							whole attention to Poland,1 and
							Pitt had to pay him handsomely to induce him to leave sixty thousand Prussian troops
							to protect the Netherlands from the French invaders. But England's money was wasted,
							for the Prussians refused to take active measures, and even Austria, after one or two
							reverses, decided to evacuate the Netherlands, in the summer of 1794, in order to
							center all her energies upon Polish affairs and prevent Russia and Prussia from
							excluding her, as they had done the last time, when it came to a division of the
							booty.

						England unable to check the French, who occupy Holland and the Rhine
							region

						England was naturally disgusted. She had joined the war in order to aid Austria and
							Prussia to maintain the balance of power and defend the Netherlands, which formed a
							protective barrier between Holland and France. Lord Malmesbury, one of the English
							diplomats, declared that in his dealings with the allies he encountered only "shabby
							art and cunning, ill will, jealousy and every sort of dirty passion." By October,
							1794, the Austrians had disappeared beyond the Rhine; the English were forced to give
							up Holland and to retreat forlornly into Hanover before the French under General
							Pichegru, who captured the Dutch fleet imprisoned in the ice near Texel. The Dutch
							towns contained some enthusiastic republicans who received the French cordially. The
							office of hereditary stadholder, which was really that of a king except in name, was
							abolished, and the United Netherlands became the Batavian Republic under French
							control.

						The French republic concludes the Treaties of Basel with Prussia and
							Spain (April and July, 1795)

						Instead of being crushed by the overwhelming forces of the allies, the armies of the
							French republic had, in the three years since the opening of the war, conquered the
							Spanish Netherlands, Savoy, and Nice; they had metamorphosed Holland into a friendly
							sister republic, and had occupied western Germany as far as the Rhine. The Convention
							was now ready to conclude its first treaties of peace. Prussia signed the Treaty of
							Basel with the new republic (April, 1795), in which she secretly 1 See above, pp.
										69-70.
							 agreed not to oppose the permanent acquisition by
							France of the left bank of the Rhine provided Prussia were indemnified for the
							territory which she would in that case lose. Three months later Spain also made peace
							with France. Early in 1796 the Directory decided, in accordance with General
							Bonaparte's advice, to undertake a triple movement upon Vienna, the capital of its
							chief remaining enemy. Jourdan was to take a northerly route along the river Main;
							Moreau was to lead an army through the Black Forest and down the Danube, while
							Bonaparte invaded Lombardy, which was, since the French had occupied the Netherlands,
							the nearest of the Austrian possessions.

						Divisions of Italy

						Italy was still in the same condition in which it had been left some fifty years
							before at the Peace of Aix-la-Chapelle, when the Austrian Hapsburgs and the Spanish
							Bourbons had come to a final agreement as to what each was to have for the younger
							members of the two families.1
							In the kingdom of Naples2 the
							feeble Ferdinand IV3 reigned
							with Caroline his wife, the sister of Marie Antoinette. To the north, stretching
							across the peninsula, lay the Papal States. Tuscany enjoyed the mild and enlightened
							rule of the successors of Joseph of Lorraine. Parma's duke was related to the Spanish
							house and Modena's to the Austrian, but the only part of Italy actually under foreign
							rule was Lombardy and its capital, Milan, which had fallen to Austria after the War of
							the Spanish Succession. The once flourishing republics of Venice and Genoa still
							existed, but had long since ceased to play a r61le in European affairs. The only
							vigorous and promising state in Italy that was not more or less under the influence of
							either Austria or Spain was the kingdom of Sardinia, composed of Piedmont, Savoy,
							Nice, and the island of Sardinia.

						1 See Development of Modern Europe, Vol. I, pp. 45-46.

						2 We shall use this name
							hereafter instead of the more cumbersome title, Kingdom of the Two Sicilies.

						3 The successor of Don
							Carlos, who had become Charles III, king of Spain, in 1759.

						

						Bonaparte forces Sardinia to conclude peace and enters Milan (May,
							1796)

						General Bonaparte had to face the combined forces of Austria and Sardinia, which had
							joined the enemies of France in 1793. By marching north from Savona he skillfully
							separated his two enemies. He forced the Sardinian troops back toward Turin and
							compelled the king to conclude a treaty by which Savoy and Nice were ceded to France.
							Bonaparte was now free to advance into Lombardy. He marched down the Po, and the
							Austrians, fearing that he might cut them off, hastened eastward, leaving Milan to be
							occupied by the French. Here Bonaparte made a triumphal entry on May 15, 1796,
							scarcely more than a month after the campaign opened.

						The French begin to plunder Italy

						As he descended the mountains into the plains of Lombardy, Bonaparte had announced
							that the French army came to break the chains of the tyrants, for the French people
							was the friend of all peoples. Nevertheless the Directory expected him to force those
							that he "freed" to support the French armies. Their directions to Bonaparte were
							sufficiently explicit: "Leave nothing in Italy which will be useful to us and which
							the political situation will permit you to remove." Accordingly Milan was not only
							required to pay its deliverers twenty million francs but also to give up some of the
							finest old masterpieces in its churches and galleries. The dukes of Parma and Modena
							made similar "contributions" on condition that Bonaparte would grant them an
							armistice.

						The campaign about Mantua (May, 1796-February, 1797)

						Bonaparte soon moved east and defeated the Austrian army, a part of which took refuge
							in the impregnable fortress of Mantua to which the French promptly laid siege. There
							is more fascinating chapter in the history of warfare than the story of the audacious
							maneuvers by which Bonaparte successfully repulsed the Austrian armies sent to relieve
							Mantua. Toward the end of July an Austrian army nearly twice the size of Bonaparte's
							descended in three divisions from Tyrol. The situation of the French was critical, but
							Bonaparte managed to defeat each of the three divisions before they had an opportunity
							to join forces. In five days the Austrians retired, leaving  fifteen thousand prisoners in the hands of the French. Bonaparte now
							determined to advance up the river Adige into Germany. He again routed the Austrians
							and took possession of Trent. Wurmser, the Austrian commander, tried to cut him 
								Central Europe to illustrate Napoleon's Campaigns, 1796-1801
							 off from Italy but was himself shut up in Mantua with the remains of his
							army.

						Bonaparte defeats the Austrians at Arcole (November 15-17 1796) and
							at Rivoli (January 14-15, 1797)
						Full of Mantua 

						In November two more armies were sent down to relieve Mantua, one approaching by the
							Adige and the other descending the Piave. Bonaparte met and defeated the Piave army in
							a three days' battle at Arcole, after which the other Austrian division retreated. The
							last effort to relieve the fortress was  frustrated by
							Bonaparte at Rivoli (January 14-15, 1797) and resulted in the surrender of Mantua,
							which gave the French complete control of northern Italy.

						Truce at Leoben (April, 1797)

						All danger of an attack in the rear was now removed, and the victorious French
							general could lead his.army through the mountains to Vienna. He forced back the
							Austrians, who attempted to block the road, and when, on April 7, he was within eighty
							miles of the capital, the Austrian commander requested a truce, which Bonaparte was
							not unwilling to grant, since he was now far from home, and both the other armies
							which the Directory had sent out, under Moreau and Jourdan, had been routed and forced
							back over the Rhine. A preliminary peace was accordingly arranged, which was followed
							by the definitive Treaty of Campo Formio (October, 1797).

						Provisions of the Treaty of Campo Formio (October, 1797)
						Creation of the Cisalpine Republic

						The provisions of the Treaty of Campo Formio illustrate the unscrupulous manner in
							which Bonaparte and Austria disposed of the helpless lesser states. It inaugurated the
							bewilderingly rapid territorial redistribution of Europe which was so characteristic
							of the Napoleonic period. Austria ceded to France the Austrian Netherlands and
							secretly agreed to use its good offices to secure for France a great part of the left
							bank of the Rhine. Austria also recognized the Cisalpine Republic, which Bonapart had
							created out of the smaller states of northern Italy, and which was under the "
							protection" of France. This new state included Lombardy, which Bonaparte had
							conquered, the duchy of Modena, some of the papal dominions, and, lastly, a part of
							the possessions of the venerable and renowned but now defenseless republic of Venice,
							which Napoleon had ruthlessly destroyed. Austria received as an indemnity for the
							Netherlands and Lombardy the rest of the possessions of the Venetian republic,
							including Venice itself.

						General Bonaparte establishes a court

						While the negotiations were going on, the young general had established a brilliant
							court at a villa near Milan. "His salons," an observer informs us, "were filled with a
							throng of generals, officials, and purveyors, as well as the highest nobility and the
								 most distinguished men of Italy, who came to solicit
							the favor of a glance or a moment's conversation." It would appear, from the report of
							a most extraordinary conversation which occurred at this time, that he had already
							conceived the rôle that he was to play later.

						Bonaparte's analysis of the French character and of his own
							aims

						"What I have done so far," he declared, "is nothing. I am but at the opening of the
							career that I am to run. Do and you suppose that I have gained my victories in Italy
							in order to advance the lawyers of the Directory,-- the Carnots and the Barras'? Do
							you think either that my object is to establish a republic? What a notion! . .. What
							the French want is Glory and the satisfaction of their vanity; as for Liberty, of that
							they have no conception. Look at the army! The victories that we have just gained have
							given the French soldier his true character. I am everything to him. Let the Directory
							attempt to deprive me of my command and they will see who is the master. The nation
							must have a head, a head who is rendered illustrious by glory and not by theories of
							government, fine phrases, or the talk of idealists, of which the French understand not
							a whit."

						There is no doubt whom General Bonaparte had in mind when he spoke of the needed head
							of the French nation who should be "rendered illustrious by glory." This son of a poor
							Corsican lawyer, but yesterday a mere unlucky adventurer, had arranged his program;
							two years and a half later he was the master of the French republic.

						Personal characteristics

						We naturally ask what manner of person this was who could frame such audacious
							schemes at twenty-eight and realize them at thirty years of age. He was a little man,
							less than five feet two inches in height. At this time he was extremely thin, but his
							striking features, quick, searching eye, abrupt, animated gestures, and rapid speech,
							incorrect as it was, made a deep impression upon those who came in contact with him.
							He possessed in a supreme degree two qualities that are ordinarily considered
							incompatible. He was a dreamer and, at the same  time, a
							man whose practical skill and mastery of detail amounted to genius. He once told a
							friend that he was wont, when a poor lieutenant, to allow his imagination full play
							and fancy things just as he would have them. Then he would coolly consider the exact
							steps to be taken if he were to try to make his dream come true.

						Sources of power in Napoleon's character

						In order to explain Bonaparte's success it must be remembered that he was not
							hampered or held back by the fear of doing wrong. He was utterly unscrupulous, whether
							dealing with an individual or a nation, and appears to have been absolutely without
							any sense of moral responsibility. Neither did affection for his friends and relatives
							ever stand in the way of his personal aggrandizement. To these traits must be added
							unrivaled military genius and the power of intense and almost uninterrupted work.

						The political conditions which rendered Napoleon's wonderful
							successes possible

						But even Bonaparte, unexampled as were his abilities, could never have extended his
							power over all of western Europe, had it not been for the peculiar political weakness
							of most of the states with which he had to deal. There was no strong German Empire in
							his day, no united Italy, no Belgium whose neutrality was guaranteed-- as it now is--
							by the other powers of Europe. The French republic was surrounded by petty,
							independent, or practically independent, principalities, which were defenseless
							against an unscrupulous invader. Prussia, much smaller than it now is, offered, as we
							shall see, no efficient opposition to the extension of French control, while Austria
							had been forced to capitulate, after a short campaign, by an enemy far from its source
							of supplies and led by a young and inexperienced general.
					

					
						HOW BONAPARTE MADE HIMSELF MASTER OF FRANCE

						Bonaparte conceives the plan of an expedition to Egypt

						25. After arranging the Peace of Campo Formio, General Bonaparte
							returned to Paris. He at once perceived that  France, in
							spite of her enthusiasm over his victories, was not yet ready to accept him as her
							ruler. The pear was not yet ripe, as he observed. He saw, too, that he would soon
							sacrifice his prestige if he lived quietly in Paris like an ordinary person. His
							active mind promptly conceived a plan which would forward his interests. France was
							still at war with England, its most persevering enemy during this period. Bonaparte
							convinced the Directory that England could best be ruined in the long run by occupying
							Egypt and so threatening her commerce in the Mediterranean, and perhaps ultimately her
							dominion in the East. Fascinated by the career of Alexander the Great, Bonaparte
							pictured himself riding to India on the back of an elephant and dispossessing England
							of her most precious colonial dependencies. He had, however, still another and a
							characteristic reason for undertaking the expedition. France was on the eve of a new
							war with the European powers. Bonaparte foresaw that, if he could withdraw with him
							some of France's best officers, the Directory might soon find itself so embarrassed
							that he could return as a national savior. And even so it fell out.

						Accordingly General Bonaparte, under authority of the Directory, collected forty
							thousand of the best troops and fitted out a strong fleet, which should serve to give
							France the control of the Mediterranean. He did not forget to add to the expedition a
							hundred and twenty scientists and engineers, who were to study the country and prepare
							the way for French colonists to be sent out later.1

						The campaign in Egypt (1798-1799)
						Nelson destroys the French fleet

						The French fleet left Toulon, May 19, 1798. It was so fortunate as to escape the
							English squadron under Nelson, which sailed by it in the night. Bonaparte arrived at
							Alexandria, July 1, and easily defeated the Turkish troops in the famous 1 One of the most noteworthy
								scientific results of Bonaparte's expedition to Egypt was the discovery of the
								Rosetta Stone, which the soldiers dug up at the mouth of the Nile. This has
								inscribed upon it, a passage in Egyptian hieroglyphics accompanied by a Greek
								translation which furnished the modern world with the key to ancient hieroglyphic
								inscriptions. The stone is now in the British Museum.
							 battle of the Pyramids. Meanwhile Nelson, who did not
							know the destination of the enemy's fleet, had returned from the Syrian coast, where
							he had looked for the French in vain. He discovered Bonaparte's ships in the harbor of
							Alexandria and completely annihilated them in the first battle of the Nile 
								Egyptian Campaign
							 (August 1, 1798). The French troops were now completely cut off from
							Europe.

						Syrian campaign
						Bonaparte deserts the army in Egypt and returns to Paris

						The Porte (i.e. the Turkish government) having declared war against France, Bonaparte
							resolved to attack Turkey by land. He accordingly marched into Syria in the spring of
							1799, but was repulsed at Acre, where the Turkish forces were aided by the English
							fleet. Pursued by pestilence, the army regained Cairo in June, after terrible
							suffering and loss. It was still strong enough to annihilate a Turkish army that
							landed at Alexandria; but news now reached Bonaparte from Europe  which convinced him that the time had come for him to hasten back. The
							powers had formed a new coalition against France. Northern Italy, which he had won,
							was lost; the allies were about to invade France itself, and the Directory was
							hopelessly demoralized. Bonaparte accordingly secretly deserted his army and managed,
							by a series of happy accidents, to reach France by October 9, 1799.

						The coup d'état of the 19th Brumaire, November 9,
							1799
						Bonaparte made first Consul

						The Directory, one of the most corrupt and inefficient governmental bodies that the
							world has ever seen, had completely disgraced itself and Bonaparte readily found
							others to join with him in a conspiracy to overthrow it. A plan was formed for
							abruptly destroying the old government and replacing it by a new one without observing
							any constitutional forms. This is a procedure so familiar in France during the past
							century that it is known even in English as a coup d'état (literally
							translated, a "stroke of state"). The conspirators had a good many friends in the two
							assemblies, especially among the "Elders." Nevertheless Bonaparte had to order his
							soldiers to invade the hall in which the Assembly of the Five Hundred was in session
							and scatter his opponents before he could accomplish his purpose. A chosen few were
							then reassembled under the presidency of Lucien Bonaparte, one of Napoleon's brothers,
							who was a member of the Assembly. They voted to put the government in the hands of
							three men,-- General Bonaparte and two others,-- to be called "Consuls." These were to
							proceed, with the aid of a commission and of the Elders, to draw up a new
							constitution.

						The Constitution of the Year VIII
						The Council of State

						The new constitution was a very cumbrous and elaborate one. It provided for no less
							than four assemblies, one to propose the laws, one to consider them, one to vote upon
							them, and one to decide on their constitutionality. But Bonaparte saw to it that as
							First Consul he himself had practically all the power in his own hands. The Council of
							State, to which he called talented men from all parties and over which he presided,
							was the most important of the governmental bodies.

						

						The centralized administrative system established by Bonaparte

						Bonaparte's chief aim was to centralize the government. Nothing was left to local
							assemblies, for he proposed to control everything from Paris. Accordingly, in each
							department he put an officer called a prefect; in each subdivision
							of the department a subprefect. These, together with the mayors and
							police commissioners of the towns, were all appointed by the First Consul. The
							prefects-- "little First Consuls," as Bonaparte called them-- resembled the former
							intendants, the king's officers under the old regime. Indeed, the new government
							suggested in several important respects that of Louis XIV. This administrative system
							which Bonaparte perfected has endured, with a few changes, down to the present day. It
							has rendered the French government very stable in spite of the startling changes in
							the constitution which have occurred. There is no surer proof of Napoleon's genius
							than that, with no previous experience, he could conceive a plan of government that
							should serve a great state like France through all its vicissitudes for a century.

						The new government accepted by a plebiscite

						The new ruler objected as decidedly as Louis XIV had done to the idea of being
							controlled by the people, who, he believed, knew nothing of public affairs. It was
							enough, he thought, if they were allowed to say whether they wished a certain form of
							government or not. He therefore introduced what he called a plebiscite.1 The new
							constitution when completed was submitted to the nation at large, and all were allowed
							to vote "yes" or "no" on the expediency of its adoption. Over three million voted in
							favor of it and only fifteen hundred. and sixty-two against it. This did not
							necessarily mean, however, that practically the whole nation wished to have General
							Bonaparte as its ruler. A great many may have preferred what seemed to them an
							objectionable form of government to the risk of rejecting it. Herein lies the
							injustice of the plebiscite; there are many questions that cannot be answered by a
							simple "yes" or "no."

						1 The plebiscitum of the Romans, from which the French derived their term plébiscite, was originally a law voted in the Assembly of the plebs, or people.

						

						Bonaparte generally acceptable to France as First Consul

						Yet the accession to power of the popular young general was undoubtedly grateful to
							the majority of citizens, who longed above all for a stable government. The Swedish
							envoy wrote, just after the coup d'état: "A legitimate monarch has
							perhaps never found a people more ready to do his bidding than Bonaparte, and it would
							be inexcusable if this talented general did not take advantage of this to introduce a
							better form of government upon a firmer basis. It is literally true that France will
							perform impossibilities in order to aid him in this. The people (with the exception of
							a despicable horde of anarchists) are so sick and weary of revolutionary horrors and
							folly that they believe that any change cannot fail to be for the better. ... Even the
							royalists, whatever their views may be, are sincerely devoted to Bonaparte, for they
							attribute to him the intention of gradually restoring the old order of things. The
							indifferent element cling to him as the one most likely to give France peace. The
							enlightened republicans, although they tremble for their form of government, prefer to
							see a single man of talent possess himself of the power than a club of
							intriguers."
					

					
						THE SECOND COALITION AGAINST FRANCE

						The Directory strikes at English commerce

						26. Upon becoming First Consul, General Bonaparte found France at
							war with England, Russia, Austria, Turkey, and Naples,-- a somewhat strange coalition
							which must be explained. After the treaties of Basel and Campo Formio, England had
							been left to fight the Revolution single-handed. The Directory issued a decree
							excluding her products from all lands under French control, especially cotton and
							woolen goods, hardware, pottery, and refined sugar, which were not to be imported on
							pain of confiscation. Although this was exactly the kind of law that England had been
							trying to enforce in her own interest for a century or so,1 the English merchants were 1 See
									above, pp. 80-81.
							 exasperated at the unprincipled French, and Pitt was
							encouraged to continue the struggle.

						Russia enters war as England's ally
						The Sultan

						He found an unexpected ally in the Tsar Paul.1 Like his mother, Catharine II, whom he succeeded in 1796,
							he hated the Revolution; but, unlike her, he consented to send troops to fight against
							France, for which Pitt agreed (December, 1798) to help pay. Austria was willing to
							take up the war again since she saw no prospect of getting all the territory that
							Bonaparte had half promised her in the Treaty of Campo Formio. As for the Sultan,
							Bonaparte's Egyptian expedition brought the French to his very doors and led him to
							join his ancient enemy, Russia, in a common cause.

						France republicanizes her neighbors

						It certainly appeared to be high time to check the restless new republic which was
							busily engaged in spreading "liberty" in her own interest. Holland had first been republicanized; then Bonaparte had established the Cisalpine Republic
							in northern Italy; and the French had stirred up a revolution in Genoa, which led to
							the abolition of the old aristocratic government and the founding of a new Ligurian
							Republic which was to be the friend and ally of France.

						The Roman Republic proclaimed (February, 1798)

						Next, with the encouragement of Joseph Bonaparte, Napoleon's brother, who was the
							French ambassador in Rome, the few republicans in the Pope's capital proclaimed a
							republic. In the disturbance which ensued a French general was killed, a fact which
							gave the Directory an excuse for declaring war and occupying Rome. On February 15,
							1798, the republicans assembled in the ancient forum and declared that the Roman
							Republic was once more restored. The brutal French commissioner insulted the Pope,
							snatched his staff and ring from his hand, and ordered him out of town. The French
								1 Paul was an
								ill-balanced person whose chief grievance against the French was that Bonaparte had
								captured the island of Malta on the way to Egypt. Malta had for centuries been held
								by the Order of the Knights of Malta, which had originated during the Crusades. Now
								the knights had chosen Paul as their "Protector," an honor which enchanted his
								simple soul and led him to dream of annexing Malta to his empire. Bonaparte's
								seizure of the island interfered with his plans and served to rouse a desire for
								vengeance.
							 seized the pictures and statues in the Vatican and sent
							them to Paris and managed to rob the new republic of some sixty million francs
							besides.

						The Directory revolutionizes and plunders Switzerland (1798)
						The Helvetic Republic

						More scandalous still was the conduct of the Directory and its commissioners in
							dealing with Switzerland. In that little country, certain of the cantons, or provinces, had long been subject to others which possessed
							superior rights. A few persons in the canton of Vaud were readily induced by the
							French agitators to petition the Directory to free their canton from the overlordship
							of Berne. In January, 1798, a French army entered Switzerland and easily overpowered
							the troops of Berne and occupied the city (in March), where they seized the treasure--
							some four millions of dollars-- which had been gradually brought together through a
							long period by the thrifty government of the confederation. A new Helvetic Republic,
							"one and indivisible," was proclaimed, in which all the cantons should be equal and
							all the old feudal customs and inequalities should be abolished. The mountaineers of
							the conservative cantons about the lake of Lucerne rose in vain against the intruders,
							who mercilessly massacred those who dared to oppose the changes which their
							"deliverers" chose to introduce. The money and supplies which the French appropriated
							were sent to Toulon to be used in the Egyptian expedition.

						Naples reopens the war against France (November, 1798)
						Naples turned into the Parthenopean Republic (January, 1799)

						 The new outbreak of war against France was due to Naples, where Marie Antoinette's
							sister, Caroline, watched with horror the occupation of Rome by the French troops.
							Nelson, after destroying Bonaparte's fleet in the battle of the Nile, had returned to
							Naples and there arranged a plan for driving the French from the Papal States. But
							everything went badly; the French easily defeated the Bourbon armies and the members
							of the royal family of Naples were glad to embark on the British ships and make their
							way to Palermo. Thereupon the French republicanized Naples, seized millions of francs
							as usual, and carried off to Paris the best works of art.

						

						Piedmont occupied by the French

						At the same time Piedmont was occupied by the French, and the king was forced to
							abdicate. He retired to Sardinia, where he remained until Napoleon's downfall fifteen
							years later.

						France reaches its "natural boundaries" in 1799

						Early in the year 1799 the French republic seemed everywhere victorious. It had at
							last reached its "natural boundaries" by adding to the Austrian Netherlands those
							portions of the Holy Roman Empire which lay on the left bank1 of the Rhine, and, to the south, the duchy of
							Savoy. It had reorganized its neighbors, the Batavian Republic, the Helvetic Republic,
							the Ligurian Republic, the Cisalpine Republic, the Roman Republic, and the
							Parthenopean Republic,-- all of which were to accept its counsel and aid it with
							money, troops, and supplies. Bonaparte had occupied Egypt and was on his way to Syria
							with gorgeous visions of subjugating the whole Orient.

						Suvaroff and the Austrians force the French out of Italy
							(April-August, 1799)
						Russia withdraws from the war (October, 1799)

						Within a few months, however, the situation was completely changed. The Austrians
							defeated Jourdan at Stockach in southern Germany, and the French retreated to the
							Rhine. In Italy the brave Russian general, Suvaroff, with the small but valiant army
							which the Tsar had sent to the west, forced the French out of northern Italy and, with
							the aid of the Austrians, repeatedly defeated their armies and shut up the remains of
							their forces in Genoa, to which the Austrians laid siege. Suvaroff, after expelling
							the French from Piedmont, burned to push on into France. But the Austrian minister,
							Thugut, opposed the restoration of the king of Sardinia to his throne, and urged that
							Austria should be permitted to annex Piedmont since she alone would be powerful enough
							to keep the French out of Italy. Thereupon, utterly disgusted with his Austrian ally,
							Suvaroff turned northward through the Swiss mountains, across which he forced his way
							in spite of incredible difficulties, only to find that a second Russian army, which he
							had expected would join him, had been defeated by the French. There-upon the Tsar,
							attributing the reverses of his armies to the 1 That is to say, the bank which would lie to
								the left of one traveling down the river, in this case the west bank.
							 intrigues of the land-greedy Austria, broke off all
							relations with her and recalled his generals (October, 1799).1

						The First Consul writes to George III and Francis II in the interests
							of peace

						In November, 1799, the corrupt and inefficient Directory was, as we have seen, thrust
							aside by a victorious general to whom France now looked for peace and order. The First
							Consul sought to make a happy impression upon France by writing personal letters on
							Christmas Day to both George III and Emperor Francis II, in which he deplored a
							continuation of war among the most enlightened nations of Europe. Why should they
							"sacrifice to ideas of empty greatness the blessings of commerce, internal prosperity,
							and domestic happiness? Should they not recognize that peace was at once their first
							need and their chief glory?"

						His advances not well received

						The English returned a gruff reply in which Pitt declared that France had been
							entirely at fault and had precipitated war by her aggressions in Holland, Switzerland,
							and Egypt. England must continue the struggle until France offered pledges of peace,
							and the best security would be the recall of the Bourbon dynasty.2 The Austrians also refused, though somewhat
							more graciously, to come to terms, and Bonaparte began secretly collecting troops
							which he could direct against the Austrian army that was besieging the French in
							Genoa.

						Bonaparte crosses the St. Bernard Pass (May, 1800)

						Bonaparte now proceeded to devise one of the boldest and most brilliant of campaigns.
							Instead of following one of the usual roads into Italy, either along the coast to
							Genoa or across the Alps of Savoy, he resolved to take the enemy in the rear. In order
							to do this he concentrated his forces in Switzerland and, emulating Hannibal, he led
							them over the difficult Alpine pass of the Great St. Bernard. There was no carriage
							road then as there is now, and the cannons had to be dragged over 1 Naturally the republics which had been
								formed in Italy under French influence collapsed. Ferdinand returned to Naples and
								instituted a royalist reign of terror in which Nelson took part. His conduct met
								with hearty disapproval in England.
							2 This suggestion
								irritated the French and convinced them that England was their implacable
								enemy.
							 in trunks of trees which had been hollowed out for the
							purpose. Bonaparte arrived safely in Milan on June 2, 1800, to the utter astonishment
							of the Austrians, who had received no definite news of his line of approach. He
							immediately restored the Cisalpine Republic, wrote to Paris that he had delivered the
							Lombards from the "Austrian rod," and then moved westward to find and crush the
							enemy.

						The battle of Marengo (June 14, 1800)

						In his uncertainty as to the exact whereabouts of the Austrians, Bonaparte divided
							his forces when near the village of Marengo (June 14) and sent a contingent under
							Desaix southward to head off the enemy in that direction. In the meantime the whole
							Austrian army approached from Alessandria and the engagement began. The Austrians at
							first repulsed the French, and Bonaparte saw all his great plans in jeopardy as he
							vainly besought his soldiers to make another stand. The defeat was soon turned,
							however, into one of his most brilliant victories, for Desaix had heard the firing and
							returned with his division. Meanwhile the aged and infirm Austrian commander had
							returned to Alessandria, supposing that the battle was won. The result was that the
							French troops, reënforced, returned to the attack and carried all before them. The
							brave Desaix, who had really saved the day, was killed; Bonaparte simply said nothing
							of his own temporary defeat, and added one more to the list of his great military
							triumphs. A truce was signed next day, and the Austrians retreated behind the Mincio
							River, leaving Bonaparte to restore French influence in Lombardy. The districts that
							he had "freed" were obliged to support his army, and the reestablished Cisalpine
							Republic was forced to pay a monthly tax of two million francs.

						Moreau defeats the Austrian army in the forrest of Hohenlinden
							(December, 1800)

						While Bonaparte had been making his last preparations to cross the St. Bernard, a
							French army under Moreau, a very able commander, had invaded southern Germany and
							prevented the Austrian forces there from taking the road to Italy. months later, in
							the early winter, when the truce concluded after Marengo had expired, he was ordered
							to march on Vienna.  On December 3 he met the Austrian
							army in the snowy roads of the forest of Hohenlinden and overwhelmingly defeated it.
							This brought Austria to terms and she agreed to a treaty of peace at Lunéville,
							February, 1801.

						Provisions of the Treaty of Lunéville (February, 1801)

						In this, the arrangements made at Campo Formio were in general reaffirmed. France was
							to retain possession of the Austrian Netherlands and the left bank of the Rhine. The
							Batavian, Helvetic, Ligurian, and Cisalpine republics were to be recognized and
							included in the peace. Austria was to keep Venice.1

						General peace of 1801

						Austria's retirement from the war was the signal for a general peace. Even England,
							who had not laid down her arms since hostilities first opened in 1793, saw no
							advantage in continuing a struggle in which the continental powers refused longer to
							participate. After defeating the French army which Bonaparte had left in Egypt, she
							suspended hostilities and opened negotiations with France in the autumn of 1801 i,
							although the definite peace was not signed until the following March, at Amiens.

						Two most important results of the treaties of 1801
						(a) Bonaparte sells Louisiana to the United States
							(1803)

						Among many merely transitory results of these treaties, there were two provisions of
							momentous import. The first of these, Spain's cession of Louisiana to France in
							exchange for certain advantages in Italy, does not concern us here directly. But when
							war again broke out Bonaparte sold the district to the United States, and among the
							many transfers of territory that he made during his reign, none was more important
							than this. We must, however, treat with some detail the second of the great changes,
							which led to the complete reorganization of Germany and ultimately rendered possible
							the establishment of the present powerful German Empire.

						(b) Effects of the cession of the left bank of the
							Rhine to France

						In the Treaty of Lunéville, the Emperor had agreed on his own part, as the ruler of
							Austria, and on the part of the Holy Roman Empire, that the French republic should
							thereafter possess in full sovereignty the territories of the Empire which lay on the
							left bank of the Rhine, and that thereafter the Rhine 1 The text of this treaty
									may be found in the Readings, sect. 42.
							 should form the boundary of France from the point where
							it left the Helvetic Republic to the point where it entered the Batavian Republic. As
							an inevitable consequence of this cession, numerous rulers and towns-- nearly a
							hundred in number-- found themselves dispossessed wholly or in part of their lands.
							The territories involved included the Palatinate and the duchy of Jülich (both of
							which then belonged to Bavaria), the possessions of the archbishops of Treves and
							Cologne and of the bishop of Liege, the ancient free cities of Worms, Speyer, and
							Cologne, Prussia's duchy of Cleves, besides the tiny realms of dozens of counts and
							abbots.

						Only the hereditary princes to be indemnified

						The Empire bound itself by the treaty to furnish the hereditary
							princes who had been forced to give up their territories to France "an indemnity
							within the Empire." Those who did not belong to the class of hereditary rulers were of
							course the bishops and abbots and the free cities. The ecclesiastical princes were
							forbidden as clergymen to marry, and consequently could have no lawful heirs. Hence if
							they were deprived of their realms they might be adequately indemnified by a pension
							for life, with no fear of injustice to their heirs, since they could have none. As for
							the towns, once so prosperous and important, they now seemed scarcely worth
							considering to the more powerful rulers of Germany. Indeed it seemed absurd at the
							opening of the nineteenth century that a single town should be permitted to constitute
							an independent state with its own system of coinage and its particular customs
							lines.

						The ecclesiastical states and the free towns to be used to indemnify
							the hereditary rulers

						There was, however, no unoccupied land within the Empire with which to indemnify even
							the hereditary princes, like the elector of Bavaria, the margrave of Baden, the king
							of Prussia, or the Emperor himself, who had seen their possessions on the left bank of
							the Rhine divided up into French departments. It was understood by France, and by the
							princes concerned, that the ecclesiastical rulers and the free towns should pay the
							costs of this cession by sacrificing their territories on the right bank as well as on
							the left. The secularization of  the
							church lands,-- as the process of transferring them to lay rulers was called,-- and
							the annexation of the free towns implied a veritable revolution in the old Holy Roman
							Empire, for the possessions of the ecclesiastical princes were vast in extent and were
							widely scattered, thus contributing largely to the disunion of Germany.

						The work of the imperial commission in reconstructing Germany

						A commission of German princes was appointed to undertake the reconstruction of the
							map; and the final distribution was preceded by an undignified scramble among the
							hereditary rulers for bits of territory. All turned to Paris for favors, since it was
							really the First Consul and his minister, Talleyrand, who determined the distribution.
							Needy princelings are said to have caressed Talleyrand's poodle and played "drop the
							handkerchief" with his niece in the hope of adding a monastery or a shabby village to
							their share. At last the Imperial Commission, with France's help, finished its
							intricate task and the Reichsdeputationshauptschluss, as the outcome
							of their labors was officially called, was ratified by the diet in 1803.

						Destruction of the ecclesiastical states and free towns

						All the ecclesiastical states except Mayence were turned over to lay rulers, while of
							the forty-eight imperial cities only six were left. Three of these-- Hamburg, Bremen,
							and Lübeck-- still exist as members of the new German Empire. No map could make clear
							all the shiftings of territory which the Imperial Commission sanctioned. A few
							examples will serve to illustrate the complexity of their procedure and the strange
							microscopic divisions of the Empire.1

						Examples of indemnification

						Prussia received in return for Cleves and other small territories the bishoprics of
							Hildesheim and Paderborn, a part of the bishopric of Münster and of the lands of the
							elector of Mayence, the territories of the abbots, or abbesses, of Herford,
							Quedlinburg, Elten, Essen, Werden, and Kappenberg, and the free towns of Mühlhausen,
							Nordhausen, and Goslar,-- over 1 It has not been deemed feasible to give a map here to illustrate the
								innumerable changes effected by the Reichsdeputationshauptschluss.
								See map in Droysen, Historischer Handatlas, and the extraordinary
								maps at the end of Putzger's Historischer Schul-Atlas.
							 four times the area that she had lost. The elector of
							Bavaria, for more considerable sacrifices on the left bank, was rewarded with the
							bishoprics of Würzburg, Bamberg, Freising, Augsburg, and Passau, besides the lands of
							twelve abbots and of seventeen free towns; which materially extended his boundaries.
							Austria got the bishoprics of Brixen and Trent; the duke of Würtemberg and the
							margrave of Baden also rounded out and consolidated their dominions. A host of princes
							and counts received their little allotments of land or were assigned an income of a
							few thousand gulden to solace their woes,1 but the more important rulers carried off the lion's share
							of the spoils. Bonaparte wished to add Parma as well as Piedmont to France, so the
							duke of Parma was given Tuscany, and the grand duke of Tuscany was indemnified with
							the archbishopric of Salzburg.2

						Over two hundred independent states extinguished

						These bewildering details are only given here to make clear the hopelessly minute
							subdivision of the old Holy Roman Empire and the importance of the partial
							amalgamation which took place in 1803. One hundred and twelve sovereign and
							independent states lying to the east of the Rhine were wiped out by being annexed to
							larger states, such as Prussia, Austria, Bavaria, Würtemberg, Baden, Hesse, etc.,
							while nearly a hundred more had disappeared when the left bank of the Rhine was
							converted into'departments by the French.

						Bonaparte's purpose to gain allies in southern Germany

						Although Germany never sank to a lower degree of nationaldegradation than at this
							period, this consolidation was nevertheless the beginning of her political
							regeneration. Bonaparte, it is true, hoped to weaken rather than to strengthen the
							Empire, for by increasing the territory and power of the 1 For example, the prince of Bretzenheim, for
								the loss of the villages of Bretzenheim and Winzenheim, was given a "princely"
								nunnery on the lake of Constance; the poor princess of Isenburg, countess of
								Parkstein, who lost a part of the tiny Reipoltskirchen, received an annuity of
								twenty-three thousand gulden and a share in the tolls paid by boats on the Rhine,
								and so on.
							2 As for the knights, who
								were the least among the German rulers, those who had lost their few acres on the
								left bank were not indemnified, and those on the right bank were quietly deprived of
								their political rights within the next two or three years by the princes within
								whose territories they happened to lie.
							Outlines of European History southern states-- Bavaria,
							Würtemberg, Hesse, and Baden-- he expected to gain the permanent friendship of their
							rulers and so create a "third Germany" which he could play off against Austria and
							Prussia. He succeeded for a time in this design, but the consolidation of 1803 paved
							the way, as we shall see, for the creation sixty-seven years later of the present
							German Empire.
					

					
						REFERENCES
								Youth of Bonaparte: FOURNIER, Napoleon, chaps. i and ii, pp. 1-37; JOHNSTON, Napoleon, chap. i, pp. 1-13; ROSE, The Life of Napoleon I, Vol. I, chap. i, pp. 1-21.
								The Beginning of Bonaparte's Military Career: JOHNSTON, chap. ii, pp. 14-26; Cambridge Modern History,
									Vol. VIII, chap. xviii, pp. 560 sqq.; ROSE,
									Vol. I, chaps. ii and iii, pp. 22-69.
								The First Italian Campaign: FOURNIER,
									chap. v, pp. 72-110; FYFFE, History of Modern
										Europe, chap. iii, pp. 74-103; Cambridge Modern History,
									Vol. VIII, chap. xviii, pp. 553-593; JOHNSTON, pp. 27-44 ; ROSE, Vol. I, chaps. iv-vii, pp. 70-158.
								The Egyptian Expedition: FOURNIER, chap.
									vi, pp. 111-153; JOHNSTON, pp. 44-58; Cambridge
										Modern History, Vol. VIII, chap. xix, pp. 594-619; ROSE,
									Vol. I, chaps. viii and ix, pp. 159-197.
								Overthrow of the Directory and Establishment of the
										Consulate: FOURNIER, chap. vii, pp. 154-187; FYFFE, chap. iv, pp. 104-144; JOHNSTON, pp.
									59-78; Cambridge Modern History, Vol. IX, chap. i, pp. 1-33;
										ROSE, Vol. I, chap. x, pp. 198-220.
					
				

				
					

					CHAPTER IX
						EUROPE AND NAPOLEON

					

						BONAPARTE RESTORES ORDER AND
								PROSPERITY IN FRANCE

						General disorder in France under the Directory

						27. Bonaparte was by no means merely a military genius; he was a
							distinguished statesman as well. He found France in a sad plight after ten years of
							rapid and radical change, incompetent government, and general disorder. The turmoil of
							the Reign of Terror had been followed by the mismanagement and corruption of the
							Directory. There had been no opportunity to perfect the elaborate and thoroughgoing
							reforms introduced by the first National Assembly, and the work of the Revolution
							remained but half done. Bonaparte's officials reported to him that the highways were
							infested with murderous bands of robbers, that the roads and bridges were dilapidated
							and the harbors filled with sand. The manufacturers and business men were discouraged
							and industry was demoralized.

						The paper money

						The financial situation was intolerable. The disorder had reached such a pitch that
							scarcely any taxes were paid in the year 1800. The assignats had so
							depreciated in March, 1796, that three hundred francs in paper were required to
							procure one in gold. Thereupon the Directory had withdrawn them at one thirtieth of
							their value and substituted another kind of paper money which rapidly declined in
							value in the same way that the assignats had done. The hard-beset
							government had issued all sorts of government securities which were at a hopeless
							discount, and had repudiated a considerable part of the public debt.

						Bonaparte's financial measures

						The First Consul and his able ministers began at once to devise measures to remedy
							the difficulties, and his officials,  scattered
							throughout France, saw to it that the new laws were enforced. The police was
							everywhere reorganized and the robbers brought to summary justice. The tax rate was
							fixed and the taxes regularly collected. A sinking fund was established designed
							gradually to extinguish the public debt; this served to raise the credit of the State.
							New government securities replaced the old ones, and a Bank of France was founded to
							stimulate business. The Directory had so grossly mismanaged the disposal of the lands
							of the clergy and emigrant nobles that they had brought in very little to the
							government. Bonaparte carefully cherished what remained unsold and made the most of
							it.

						The Convention had separated Church and State (February, 1795), but
							the Directory continued to persecute the clergy

						In no respect had the revolutionary governments been less successful than in dealing
							with the Church. We have seen how those priests who refused to swear to support the
							Civil Constitution of the Clergy had been persecuted. After Hébert's attempt to
							replace Christianity by the worship of Reason, and that of Robespierre to establish a
							new deistic worship of the Supreme Being, the Catholic churches began early in 1795 to
							be opened once more, and the Convention declared (February 21, 1795) that the
							government would no longer concern itself with religion; it would not in the future
							pay salaries to any clergyman, and every one should be free to worship in any way he
								pleased.1 Thereupon both the
							"constitutional" and the non-juring clergy began actively to reorganize their
							churches. But while thousands of priests managed to perform their duties, the
							Convention, and later the Directory, continued 1 This first law separating Church and State
								is interesting in view of the efforts which are now being made in France to effect
								the same result (see below, sect. 62). The Convention's decree read as follows: "No
								form of worship shall be interfered with. The Republic will subsidize none of them.
								It will furnish no buildings for religious exercises nor any dwellings for
								clergymen. The ceremonies of all religions are forbidden outside of the confines of
								the place chosen for their performance. The law recognizes no minister of religion
								and no one is to appear in public with costumes or ornaments used in religious
								ceremonies." The Convention gruffly added other limitations on religious freedom. It
								required, for example, that all services be conducted in a semi-private manner, with
								none of the old gorgeous display or public ceremonials and processions.
							 to persecute those who did not take a new oath to
							submit to the laws of the republic, and many suspected of hostility to the government
							were exiled or imprisoned.

						Bonaparte hopes to gain the support of the church

						General Bonaparte, although himself a deist, nevertheless fully appreciated the
							importance of gaining the support of the Church and the Pope, and consequently,
							immediately upon becoming First Consul, he set to work to settle the religious
							difficulties. He freed the imprisoned priests upon their promising not to oppose the
							constitution, while those who had been exiled began to return in considerable numbers
							after the 18th Brumaire. Sunday, which had been abolished by the republican calendar,
							was once more generally observed, and all the revolutionary holidays, except July 14,
							the anniversary of the fall of the Bastille, and September 22, the first day of the
							republican year, were done away with.

						The Concordat of 1801

						A formal treaty with the Pope, known as the Concordat, was
							concluded in September, 1801, which was destined to remain in force for over a hundred
							years. It declared that the Roman Catholic religion was that of the great majority of
							the French citizens and that its rites might be freely observed; that the Pope and the
							French government should arrange a new division of the country into bishoprics; that
							the bishops should be appointed by the First Consul and confirmed by the Pope, and the
							priests should be chosen by the bishops. Both bishops and priests were to receive a
							suitable remuneration from the government, but were to be required to swear to support
							the Constitution of the republic. The churches which had not been sold should be put
							at the disposition of the bishops, but the Pope agreed never to disturb in any way
							those who had acquired the former property of the clergy.

						Bonaparte brings the Church under the control of the State

						It is to be observed that Bonaparte showed no inclination to separate Church and
							State, but carefully brought the Church under the control of the State by vesting the
							appointment of the bishops in the head of the government,-- the First Consul. The
							Pope's confirmation was likely to be a mere form. The 
							bishops were to choose no priests who were not agreeable to the government, nor was
							any papal bull or decree to be published in France without its permission.1

						How the Revolution had changed the Church

						In some ways the arrangements of the Concordat of 1801 resembled those which
							prevailed under the ancien régime, but the Revolution had swept away
							the whole medieval substructure of the Church, its lands and feudal rights, the
							tithes, the monks and nuns with their irrevocable vows enforced by law, the Church
							courts, the monopoly of religion, and the right to persecute heretics,-- all of these
							had disappeared and General Bonaparte saw no reason for restoring any of them.

						The emigrant nobles permitted to return

						As for the emigrant nobles, Bonaparte decreed that no more names should be added to
							the lists. The striking of names from the list, and the return of confiscated lands
							that had not already been sold, he made favors to be granted by himself. Parents and
							relatives of emigrants were no longer to be regarded as incapable of holding public
							offices. In April, 1802, a general amnesty was issued, and no less than forty thousand
							families returned to France.

						Old habits resumed

						There was a gradual reaction from some of the innovations of the Reign of Terror. The
							old titles of address, Monsieur and Madame, again came into use instead of the
							revolutionary "Citizen." Streets which had been rebaptized with republican names
							resumed their former ones. Old titles of nobility were revived, and something very
							like a royal court began to develop at the Palace of the Tuileries; for Bonaparte, in
							all but his title, was already a king, and his wife, Josephine, a queen.

						The grateful reliance of the nation on Bonaparte

						It had been clear for some years that the nation was weary of political agitation.
							How great a blessing, after the anarchy of the past, to put all responsibility upon
							one who showed himself capable of concluding a long war with unprecedented glory for
							France and of reestablishing order and the security of 1 In the "Organic articles" which, at the
								instigation of the First Consul, were passed by the Legislative Body, all the old
								Gallican liberties were reaffirmed and all the teachers in the theological
								seminaries were to subscribe to, and agree to inculcate, the Declaration of
								1682.
							 person and property, the necessary conditions for
							renewed prosperity ! How natural that the French should welcome a despotism to which
							they had been accustomed for centuries, after suffering as they had under nominally
							republican institutions!

						The Code Napoléon

						One of the greatest and most permanent of Bonaparte's achievements still remains to
							be noted. The heterogeneous laws of the old régime had been much modified by the
							legislation of the successive assemblies. All this needed a final revision and
							Bonaparte appointed a commission to undertake this task. Their draft of the new code
							was discussed in the Council of State, and the First Consul had many suggestions to
							make. The resulting codification of the civil law-- the Code
								Napoléon-- is still used to-day, not only in France but also, with some
							modifications, in Rhenish Prussia, Bavaria, Baden, Holland, Belgium, Italy, and even
							in the state of Louisiana. The criminal and commercial law was also codified. These
							codes carried with them into foreign lands the principles of equality upon which they
							were based, and thus diffused the benefits of the Revolution beyond the borders of
							France.

						General Bonaparte becomes Napoleon I, emperor of the French
							(1804)

						Bonaparte had always shown the instincts of a despotic ruler, and France really
							ceased to be a republic except in name after the 18th Brumaire. The First Consul was
							able to bring about changes, one by one, in the constitution, which rendered his own
							power more and more absolute. In 1802 he was appointed Consul for life with the right
							to choose his successor. But this did not satisfy his insatiable ambition. He longed
							to be a monarch in name as well as in fact. He believed heartily in kingship and was
							not averse to its traditional splendor, its palaces, ermine robes, and gay courtiers.
							A royalist plot gave him an excuse for secretly urging that he be made emperor. France
							might, he argued, be replunged into civil war as long as there was any chance of
							overthrowing the government. The only safety for a great nation lay in hereditary
							power "which can alone assure a continuous political life which may endure  for generations, even for centuries."1 The Senate was induced to ask him (May, 1804)
							to accept the title of Emperor of the French, which he was to hand down to his
							children or adopted heirs.2

						A new royal court established in the Tuileries

						December 2, 1804, General Bonaparte was crowned, in the Cathedral of Notre Dame, as
							Napoleon I, emperor of the French. The Pope consented to grace the occasion, but the
							new monarch seized the golden laurel chaplet before the Pope could take it up, and
							placed it on his own head, since he wished the world to understand that he owed the
							crown not to the head of the Church but to his own sagacity and military genius. A
							royal court was reëstablished in the Tuileries, and Ségur, an emigrant noble, and
							Madame de Campan-- one of Marie Antoinette's ladies-in-waiting, who had been earning
							an honest livelihood by conducting a girls' school-- were called in to show the new
							courtiers how to deport themselves according to the rules of etiquette which had
							prevailed before the red cap of liberty had come into fashion. A new nobility was
							established to take the place of that abolished by the first National Assembly in
							1790: Bonaparte's uncle was made Grand Almoner; Talleyrand, Lord High Chamberlain;
							General Duroc, High Constable; and fourteen of the most important generals were
							exalted to the rank of Marshals of France. The stanch republicans, who had believed
							that the court pageantry of the old régime had gone to stay, were
							either disgusted or amused by these proceedings, according to their temperaments. But
							Emperor Napoleon would brook no strictures or sarcastic comment.

						Napoleon's censorship of the press

						From this time on he became increasingly tyrannical and hostile to criticism. At the
							very beginning of his administration he had suppressed a great part of the numerous
							political newspapers and forbidden the establishment of new ones. As 1 See Readings, sect. 42, for Napoleon's report of recent events submitted at the
								close of the year 1804.
							2 Josephine had borne him
								no children.
							
							
								EMPEROR NAPOLEON I
							
							
							 emperor he showed himself still more exacting. His
							police furnished the news to the papers, and carefully omitted all that might offend
							their suspicious master. He ordered the journals to "put in quarantine all news that
							might be disadvantageous or disagreeable to France."1 He would have liked to suppress all newspapers but one,
							which should be used for official purposes.
					

					
						NAPOLEON DESTROYS THE HOLY ROMAN EMPIRE AND REORGANIZES GERMANY

						Napoleon on the necessity of war for France

						28. A great majority of the French undoubtedly longed for peace,
							but Napoleon's position made war a personal necessity e necessity peace, for him. No
							one saw this more clearly than he. "If," he said to his Council of State in the summer
							of 1802, "the European states intend ever to renew the war, the sooner it comes the
							better. Every day the remembrance of their defeats grows dimmer and at the same time
							the prestige of our victories pales. ... France needs glorious deeds, and hence war.
							She must be the first among the states or she is lost. I shall put up with peace as
							long as our neighbors can maintain it, but I shall regard it as an advantage if they
							force me to take up my arms again before they rust. ... In our position I shall look
							on each conclusion of peace as simply a short armistice, and I regard myself as
							destined during my term of office to fight almost without intermission."

						Napoleon dreams of becoming emperor of Europe

						On another occasion, in 1804, Napoleon said, "There will be no rest in Europe until
							it is under a single chief-- an emperor who shall have kings for officers, who shall
							distribute kingdoms to his lieutenants, and shall make this one king of Italy, that
							one of Bavaria; this one ruler of Switzerland, that one governor of Holland, each
							having an office of honor in the imperial household." This was the ideal that he now
							found himself in a position to carry out with marvelous exactness. 
						1 When the French fleet was
							annihilated by Nelson at Trafalgar in 1805, the event was not mentioned in the Moniteur, the official newspaper.

						

						Reasons for England's persistent opposition to Napoleon

						There were many reasons why the peace with England (concluded at Amiens in March,
							1802) should be speedily broken, especially as the First Consul was not averse to a
							renewal of the war. The obvious intention of Napoleon to bring as much of Europe under
							his control as he could, and the imposition of high duties on English goods in those
							territories that he already controlled, filled commercial and industrial England with
							apprehension. The English people longed for peace, but peace appeared only to offer an
							opportunity to Napoleon to develop French commerce at their expense. This was the
							secret of England's pertinacity. All the other European powers concluded treaties with
							Napoleon at some time during his reign. England alone did not lay down her arms a
							second time until the emperor of the French was a prisoner.

						War between France and England renewed in 1803. Napoleon institutes a
							coast blockade

						War was renewed between England and France, May, 1803. Bonaparte promptly occupied
							Hanover, of which it will be remembered that the English king was elector, and
							declared the coast blockaded from Hanover to Otranto. Holland, Spain, and the Ligurian
							Republic-- formerly the republic of Genoa-- were, by hook or by crook, induced to
							agree to furnish each their contingent of men or money to the French army and to
							exclude English ships from their ports.

						Napoleon threatens to invade England

						To cap the climax, England was alarmed by the appearance of a French army at
							Boulogne, just across the Channel. A great number of flatboats were collected and
							troops trained to embark and disembark. Apparently Napoleon harbored the firm purpose
							of invading the British Isles. Yet the transportation of a large body of troops across
							the English Channel, trifling as is the distance, would have been very hazardous, and
							by many it was deemed downright impossible.1 No one knows whether Napoleon really intended to make the
							trial. It is quite possible that his main purpose in collecting an army 1 The waves and currents
								caused by winds and tides make the Channel very uncertain for all except steam
								navigation. Robert Fulton offered to put his newly invented steamboat at Napoleon's
								disposal, but his offer was declined.
							 at Boulogne was to have it in readiness for the
							continental war which he saw immediately ahead of him. He succeeded, at any rate, in
							terrifying England, who prepared to defend her coasts against the French invaders.

						Alexander I joins England, April, 1805

						The new Tsar, Alexander I,1
							had submitted a plan for the reconciliation of France and England in August, 1803; the
							rejection of this, the continued aggressions of Napoleon, and above all, his shocking
							execution of the duke of Enghien, a Bourbon prince whom he had arrested on the ground
							that he was plotting against the First Consul, roused the Tsar's indignation and led
							him to conclude an alliance with England, the objects of which were the expulsion of
							the French from Holland, Switzerland, Italy, and Hanover, and the settlement of
							European affairs upon a sound and permanent basis by a great international
							congress.

						Austria joins the coalition of 1805, but Prussia remains
							neutral

						Russia and England were immediately joined by Austria, who found Napoleon intent upon
							developing in northern Italy a strong power which would threaten her borders. He had
							been crowned king of Italy in May, 1805, and had annexed the Ligurian Republic to
							France. There were rumors, too, that he was planning to seize the Venetian territories
							which had been assigned to Austria at Campo Formio. The timid king of Prussia,
							Frederick William III, could not be induced to join the alliance, nor would he ally
							himself with Napoleon, although he was offered the electorate of Hanover, a very
							substantial inducement. He persisted in maintaining a neutrality which was to cost him
							dear.

						Napoleon fails to get control of the sea and turns his attention to
							Austria

						Napoleon had been endeavoring to get the advantage of the English on the sea, for
							there was no possibility of ferrying his armies across to England so long as English
							men-of-war were blockading the French squadrons and guarding the Channel. His efforts
							to free the French ships and concentrate them in the Channel proved vain, for Lord
							Cornwallis continued to 1
								Alexander had succeeded his father, Paul, when the latter was assassinated in a
								palace plot, March, 1801.
							 blockade one fleet in Brest while the other was forced
							to take refuge in the harbor of Cadiz where Lord Nelson watched it. These
							circumstances and the approach of the Austrian army through southern Germany led
							Napoleon to give up all thought of invading England and to turn his whole attention
							toward the east.

						Napoleon captures Mack's army at Ulm (October 20, 1805) and then
							occupies Vienna

						He misled Austria by massing troops about Strassburg and pretending that he was going
							to march through the Black Forest. Consequently, the Austrian general, Mack,
							concentrated his forces about Ulm in order to be ready for the French when they should
							appear. Napoleon was, however, really taking his armies around to the north through
							Mayence and Coblenz, so that he occupied Munich, October 14, and cut off the Austrians
							from Vienna in somewhat the same way that he had done when he crossed the St. Bernard
							Pass in i8oo. He then moved westward, and six days later General Mack, finding himself
							surrounded and shut up in Ulm, was forced to capitulate, and Napoleon made prisoners
							of a whole Austrian army, sixty thousand strong, without losing more than a few
							hundred of his own men. The French could now safely march down the Danube to Vienna,
							which they reached, October 31.

						Battle of Austerlitz (December 2, 1805)

						Emperor Francis II had retired before the approaching enemy and was concentrating his
							troops north of Vienna in Moravia. Here he had been joined by the Russian army. The
							allies determined to risk a battle with the French and occupied a favorable position
							on a hill near the village of Austerlitz, which was to be made forever famous by the
							terrible winter battle which occurred there, December 2. The Russians having descended
							the hill to attack the weaker wing of Napoleon's army, the French occupied the heights
							which the Russians had deserted, and poured a deadly fire upon the enemy's rear. The
							allies were routed and thousands of their troops were drowned as they sought to escape
							across the thin ice of a little lake which lay at the foot of the hill. The Tsar
							withdrew the  remnants of his forces, while the Emperor
							in despair agreed to submit to a humiliating peace, the Treaty of Pressburg.

						The Treaty of Pressburg (December 26, 1805)

						By this treaty Austria recognized all Napoleon's changes in Italy, and ceded to his
							kingdom of Italy that portion of the Venetian territory which she had received at
							Campo Formio. Moreover, she ceded Tyrol to Bavaria, which was friendly to Napoleon,
							and other of her possessions to Würtemberg and Baden, also friends of the French
							emperor. As head of the Holy Roman Empire, Francis II also agreed that the rulers of
							Bavaria and Würtemberg should be raised to the rank of kings, and that they and the
							grand duke of Baden should enjoy "the plenitude of sovereignty" and all rights derived
							there-from, precisely as did the rulers of Austria and Prussia.

						Napoleon forms a new dependency,-- the Confederation of the Rhine
							(1806)

						These provisions of the Treaty of Pressburg are of vital importance in the history of
							Germany. By explicitly declaring several of the larger of the German states altogether
							independent of the Emperor, Napoleon prepared the way for the formation in Germany of
							another dependency which, like Holland and the kingdom of Italy, should support France
							in future wars. In the summer of 1806 Bavaria, Würtemberg, Baden, and thirteen lesser
							German states united into a league known as the Confederation of the Rhine. This union
							was to be under the "protection" of the French emperor and to furnish him with
							sixty-three thousand soldiers, who were to be organized by French officers and to be
							at his disposal when he needed them.

						Napoleon refuses longer to recognize the existence of the Holy Roman
							Empire

						On August 1 Napoleon announced to the diet of the Holy Roman Empire at Ratisbon that
							he had, "in the dearest interests of his people and of his neighbors," accepted the
							title of Protector of the Confederation of the Rhine, and that he could therefore no
							longer recognize the existence of the Holy Roman Empire, which had long been merely a
							shadow of its former self. A considerable number of its members had become sovereign
							powers and its continuation could only be a source of dissension and confusion.

						

						Francis II assumes the title of Emperor of Austria (1804)

						The Emperor, Francis II, like his predecessors for several hundred years, was the
							ruler of the various Austrian dominions. He was officially known as King of Hungary,
							Bohemia, Dalmatia, Croatia, Galicia, and Laodomeria, Duke of Lorraine, Venice,
							Salzburg, etc., etc. When, however, the First Consul received as ruler of France the
							title of Emperor of the French, Francis determined to substitute for his long array of
							individual titles the brief and dignified formula, Hereditary Emperor of Austria and
							King of Hungary.

						Francis abdicates as Emperor (August 6, 1806) and the Holy Roman
							Empire is dissolved

						After the Treaty of Pressburg and the formation of the Confederation of the Rhine, he
							became convinced of the utter impossibility of longer fulfilling the duties of his
							office as head of the Holy Roman Empire and accordingly abdicated on August 6, 1806.
							In this way he formally put an end to a line of rulers who had, for well-nigh eighteen
							centuries, proudly maintained that they were the successors of Augustus Caesar, the
							first Roman emperor. The slight bond that had held the practically independent German
							states together was now dissolved, and the way was left clear for a series of
							reconstructions which have resulted in the formation of a new and powerful German
							Empire with the king of Prussia at its head. But the story of this must be
							deferred.

						Napoleon assigns Naples to Joseph Bonaparte and Holland to
							Louis

						Napoleon went on steadily developing what he called "the real French Empire," namely,
							the dependent states under his control which lay outside the bounds of France itself.
							Immediately after the battle of Austerlitz, he had proclaimed that Ferdinand IV, the
							Bourbon king of Naples, had ceased to reign. He ordered one of his generals to proceed
							to southern Italy and "hurl from the throne that guilty woman," Queen Caroline, who
							had favored the English and entertained Lord Nelson. In March he appointed his elder
							brother, Joseph, king of Naples and Sicily, and a younger brother, Louis, king of
							Holland.

						Prussia forced into war with France

						One of the most important of the continental states, it will have been noticed, had
							taken no part as yet in the opposition  to the extension
							of Napoleon's influence. Prussia, the first power to conclude peace with the new
							French republic in 1795, had since that time maintained a strict neutrality. Had it
							yielded to Tsar Alexander's persuasions and joined the coalition in 18o5, it might
							have turned the tide at Austerlitz, or at any rate have encouraged further resistance
							to the conqueror. The hesitation of Frederick William III at that juncture proved a
							grave mistake, for Napoleon now forced him into war at a time when he could look for
							no efficient assistance from Russia or the other powers.

						Question of Hanover

						The immediate cause of the declaration of war was the disposal of Hanover. This
							electorate Frederick William had consented to hold provisionally, pending its possible
							transfer to him should the English king give his assent. Prussia was anxious to get
							possession of Hanover because it lay just between her older possessions and the
							territory which she had gained in the redistribution of 1803.

						Napoleon's insolent behavior toward Prussia

						Napoleon, as usual, did not fail either to see or to use his advantage. His conduct
							toward Prussia was most insolent. After setting her at enmity with England and
							promising that she should have Hanover, he unblushingly offered to restore the
							electorate to George III. His insults now began to arouse the national spirit in
							Prussia, and the reluctant Frederick William was forced by the party in favor of war,
							which included his beautiful queen, Louise, and the great statesman Stein, to break
							with Napoleon.

						Decisive defeat of the Prussian army at Jena, 1806

						The Prussian army was, however, as has been well said, "only that of Frederick the
							Great grown twenty years older"; one of Frederick's generals, the aged duke of
							Brunswick, who had issued the famous manifesto in 1792, was its leader. A double
							defeat near Jena (October 14, 1806) put Prussia entirely in the hands of her enemy.
							This one disaster produced complete demoralization throughout the country. Fortresses
							were surrendered without resistance and the king fled to the uttermost parts of his
							realm on the Russian boundary.

						

						The campaign in Poland (November-June, 1806-1807)

						After crushing Prussia, Napoleon led his army into what had once been the kingdom of
							Poland. Here he spent a winter of great hardships and dangers in operations against
							the Russians and their feeble allies, the Prussians. He closed a difficult campaign
							far from France by the signal victory of Friedland (not far from Königsberg), and then
							arranged for an interview with the Tsar. The two rulers met on a raft in the river
							Niemen (June 25, 1807), and there privately arranged the provisions of the Treaty of
							Tilsit between France, Russia, and Prussia. The Tsar, Alexander I, was completely won
							over by Napoleon's skillful diplomacy. He shamefully deserted his he less ally,
							Frederick William III of Prussia, and turned against England, whose subsidies he had
							been accepting.

						Napoleon dismembers Prussia in order to create the grand duchy of
							Warsaw and the kingdom of Westphalia

						Napoleon had no mercy upon Prussia, which he ruthlessly dismembered by depriving it
							of all its possessions west of the Elbe River, and all that it had gained in the
							second and third partitions of Poland. From the lands which he forced Frederick
							William to cede to him at Tilsit, Napoleon established two new French dependencies by
							forming the Polish territories into the grand duchy of Warsaw, of which his friend,
							the king of Saxony, was made ruler; and creating from the western territory (to which
							he later added Hanover) the kingdom of Westphalia for his brother Jerome.

						Terms of the secret alliance of Tilsit between Napoleon and the
							Tsar

						Russia, on the other hand, he treated with marked consideration, and proposed that he
							and the Tsar should form an alliance which would enable him to have his way in western
							Europe and Alexander in the east. The Tsar consented to the dismemberment of Prussia
							and agreed to recognize all the sweeping changes which Napoleon had made during
							previous years. He secretly promised, if George III refused to conclude peace, to join
							France against England, and to force Denmark and Portugal to exclude English ships
							from their ports. In this way England would be cut off from all of western Europe,
							since Napoleon would have the whole coast practically under his control. In return for
							these promises, Napoleon engaged  to aid the Tsar in
							seizing Finland from Sweden and annexing the so-called Danubian provinces,-- Moldavia
							and Wallachia,-- which belonged to the Sultan of Turkey.1
					

					
						THE CONTINENTAL BLOCKADE

						Napoleon's plan of bringing England to terms by ruining her
							commerce

						29. In arranging the Treaty of Tilsit, it is evident that Napoleon
							had constantly in mind his most persistent and inaccessible enemy, England. However
							marvelous his successes by land might be, he had no luck on the sea. He had beheld his
							Egyptian fleet sink under Nelson's attack in 1798. When he was making preparations to
							transport his army across the Channel in 1805, he was humiliated to discover that the
							English were keeping his main squadron penned up in the harbors of Brest and Cadiz.
							The day after he captured General Mack's whole army with such ease at Ulm, Nelson had
							annihilated off Cape Trafalgar the French squadron which had ventured out from Cadiz.
							After Tilsit, Napoleon set himself more earnestly than ever to bring England to terms
							by ruining her commerce and industry, since he had no hope of subduing her by arms. He
							proposed to make "that race of shopkeepers" cry for peace by absolutely cutting them
							off from trade with the continent of Europe and so drying up their sources of
							prosperity.

						Napoleon's Berlin Decree (November 21, 1806)

						In May, 1806, England had declared the coast from the mouth of the Elbe to Brest to
							be "blockaded," that is to say, she gave warning that her war vessels and privateers
							would capture any vessel that attempted to enter or leave any of the ports between
							these two points. After he had won the battle of Jena, Napoleon replied to this by his
							Berlin Decree (November, 1806) in which he proclaimed that England had "disregarded
							all ideas of justice and every high sentiment which civilization should bring to
							mankind"; that it was a monstrous abuse on her part to declare great stretches of
							coast in a state of blockade which her whole fleet would be 1 They now form the kingdom
									of Roumania.
							 unable to enforce. Nevertheless he believed it a
							natural right to use the same measures against her that she employed against him. He
							therefore retaliated by declaring the British Isles in a state of blockade and
							forbidding all commerce with them. Letters or packages addressed to England or to an
							Englishman, or even written in the English language, were not to be permitted to pass
							through the mails in the countries he controlled. All trade in English goods was
							prohibited. Any British subject discovered in the countries occupied by French troops,
							or in the territories of Napoleon's allies, was to be regarded as a prisoner of war
							and his property as a lawful prize. This was, of course, only a "paper" blockade,
							since France and her allies could do little more than capture, now and then, some
							unfortunate vessel which was supposed to be coming from, or bound to, an English
							port.

						England prepared to grant licenses to neutral ships. Napoleon's Milan
							Decree (December 7, 1807)

						A year later England established a similar paper blockade of the ports of the French
							Empire and its allies, but hit upon the happy idea of permitting the ships of neutral
							powers to proceed, provided that they touched at an English port, secured a license
							from the English government, and paid a heavy export duty. Napoleon was ready with a
							still more outrageous measure. In a decree issued from "our royal palace at Milan"
							(December, 1807), he ordered that all vessels, of whatever nationality, which
							submitted to the humiliating regulations of England, should be regarded as lawful
							prizes by the French privateers.

						Sad plight of the vessels of the United States

						The ships of the United States were at this time the most numerous and important of
							the neutral vessels carrying on the world's trade, and a very hard time they had
							between the Scylla of the English orders and the Charybdis of Napoleon's Berlin and
							Milan decrees.1 The Baltimore
								Evening Post in September, 1808, calculated that if an American
							ship bound for Holland with four hundred hogsheads of tobacco should decide to meet
							England's requirements and touch at London 1 For the text of the Berlin and Milan
									decrees, see Readings, sect. 44.
							 on the way, its owners would pay one and a half pence
							per pound on the tobacco, and twelve shillings for each ton of the ship. With a
							hundred dollars for England's license to proceed on her way, and sundry other dues,
							the total would come to about thirteen thousand dollars. On the way home, if the
							neutral vessel wished to avoid the chance of capture by an English cruiser, she might
							pay, perhaps, sixteen thousand five hundred dollars more to England for the privilege
							of returning to Baltimore with a cargo of Holland gin. This would make the total
							contributions paid to Great Britain for a single voyage about thirty thousand
							dollars.

						The United States tries to defend its shipping interests by an
							embargo

						Alarmed and exasperated at the conduct of England and France, the Congress of the
							United States, at the suggestion of President Jefferson, passed an embargo act
							(December, 1807), which forbade all vessels to leave port. It was hoped that this
							would prevent the further loss of American ships and at the same time so interfere
							with the trade of England and France that they would make some concessions. But the
							only obvious result was the destruction of the previously flourishing commerce of the
							Atlantic coast towns, especially in New England. Early in 1809 Congress was induced to
							permit trade once more with the European nations, excepting France and England, whose
							vessels were still to be strictly excluded from all the ports of the United
							States.

						Napoleon proposes to render Europe independent of colonial
							products

						Napoleon expressed the utmost confidence in his plan of ruining England by cutting
							her off from the Continent. He was cheered to observe that a pound sterling was no
							longer worth twenty-five francs but only seventeen, and that the discouraged English
							merchants were beginning to urge Parliament to conclude peace. In order to cripple
							England permanently, he proposed to wean Europe from the use of those colonial
							products with which it had been supplied by English ships. He therefore encouraged the
							substitution of chicory for coffee, the cultivation of the sugar beet, and the
							discovery of new dyes to replace those-- such as indigo and cochineal--  which came from the tropics. This "Continental System"
							caused a great deal of distress and discontent and contributed to his downfall,
							inasmuch as he had to resort to despotic measures to break up the old system of trade.
							Then he was led to make continual additions to his already unwieldy empire in order to
							get control of the whole coast line of western Europe, from the boundaries of Prussia
							around to those of the Turkish Empire.
					

					
						NAPOLEON AT THE ZENITH OF HIS POWER (1808-1812)

						Napoleon's policy in France

						30. France owed much to Napoleon, for he had restored order and
							guaranteed many of the beneficent achievements of the Revolution of 1789. His
							boundless ambition was, it is true, sapping her strength by forcing younger and
							younger men into his armies in order to build up the vast international federation
							which he planned. But his victories and the commanding position to which he had raised
							France could not but fill the nation with pride.

						Public works

						He sought to gain popular approval by great public improvements. He built magnificent
							roads along the Rhine and the Mediterranean and across the Alps, which still fill the
							traveler with admiration. He beautified Paris by opening up wide streets and quays and
							constructing bridges and triumphal arches that kept fresh in the people's minds the
							recollection of his victories. By these means he gradually converted a medieval town
							into the most beautiful of modern capitals.

						The "university" established by Napoleon in 1806

						In order to be sure that the young people were brought up to venerate his name and
							support his government, Napoleon completely reorganized the schools and colleges of
							France. These he consolidated into a single "university"1 which 1 Only the theological seminaries and the polytechnic schools
								were excluded from the university. Napoleon's plan resembled the Board of Regents
								which constitutes the University of the State of New York.
							 comprised all the instruction from the most elementary
							to the most advanced. A "grand master" was put at its head, and a university council
							of thirty members drew up regulations for all the schools, prepared the text-books,
							and controlled the teachers, high and low, throughout France. The university had its
							own large endowment, and its instructors were to be suitably prepared in a normal
							school established for the purpose.

						The Imperial Catechism

						The government could at any time interfere if it disapproved of the teaching; the
							prefect was to visit the schools in his department and report on their condition to
							the minister of the interior. The first schoolbook to be drawn up was the Imperial Catechism; in this the children were taught to say: "Christians owe
							to the princes who govern them, and we in particular owe to Napoleon I, our emperor,
							love, respect, obedience, fidelity, military service, and the taxes levied for the
							preservation and defense of the empire and of his throne. We also owe him fervent
							prayers for his safety and for the spiritual and temporal prosperity of the
								State."1

						The new nobility and the Legion of Honor

						Napoleon not only created a new nobility but he endeavored to assure the support of
							distinguished individuals by making them members of the Legion of Honor which he
							founded. The "princes," whom he nominated, received an annual income of two hundred
							thousand francs. The ministers of state, senators, members of his Council of State,
							and the archbishops received the title of Count and a revenue of thirty thousand
							francs, and so on. The army was not forgotten, for Napoleon felt that to be his chief
							support. The incomes of his marshals were enormous, and brave actions among the
							soldiers were rewarded with the decoration of the Legion of Honor.

						Napoleon's discontent with his achievements

						Napoleon was, however, never content with his achievements or his glory. On the day
							of his coronation he complained to his minister, Decres, that he had been born too
							late, that there was nothing great to be done any more. On his minister's 1 See Readings, sect. 43, for further extracts from this extraordinary
								document.
							 remonstrating, he added: "I admit that my career has
							been brilliant and that I have made a good record. But what a difference is there if
							we compare ours with ancient times. Take Alexander the Great, for example. When he
							announced himself the son of Jupiter, the whole East, except his mother, Aristotle,
							and a few Athenian pedants, believed this to be true. But now, should I nowadays
							declare myself the son of the Eternal Father, there is n't a fishwife who would n't
							hiss me. No, the nations are too sophisticated, nothing great is any longer
							possible."

						Napoleon's depositism in France

						As time went on Napoleon's despotism grew more and more oppressive. No less than
							thirty-five hundred prisoners of state were arrested at his command, one because he
							hated Napoleon, another because in his letters he expressed sentiments adverse to the
							government. No grievance was too petty to attract the attention of the emperor's
							jealous eye. He ordered the title of A History of Bonaparte to be
							changed to The History of the Campaigns of Napoleon the Great. He
							forbade the performance of certain of Schiller's and Goethe's plays in German towns,
							as tending to arouse the patriotic discontent of the people with his rule.

						Napoleon's European power threatened by the growth of national
							opposition to him

						Up to this time Napoleon had had only the opposition of the several European courts
							to overcome in the extension of his power. The people of the various states which he
							had conquered showed an extraordinary indifference toward the political changes. It
							was clear, however, that as soon as the national spirit was once awakened, the highly
							artificial system created by the French emperor would collapse. His first serious
							reverse came from the people, and from an unexpected quarter.

						A French army occupies Portugal (November, 1807)

						After concluding the Treaty of Tilsit, Napoleon turned his attention to the Spanish
							peninsula. He was on friendly terms with the court of Spain, but little Portugal
							continued to admit English ships to her harbors. In October he ordered the Portuguese
							government to declare war on England and to confiscate 
							all English property. Upon its refusal to obey the second part of the order, he
							commanded General Junot to invade Portugal and take charge of the government.
							Thereupon the royal family resolved to take refuge in their vast Brazilian empire, and
							when Junot reached Lisbon they were receiving the salutes of the English squadron as
							they moved down the Tagus on the way to their new home across the Atlantic. Easy and
							simple as was the subsequent occupation of Portugal, it proved one of Napoleon's
							serious mistakes.

						Napoleon makes his brother Joseph king of Spain (1808)

						Owing to quarrels and dissensions in the Spanish royal family, Spain also seemed to
							Napoleon an easy prey and he determined to add it to his subject kingdoms. In the
							spring of 1808 he induced both Charles IV of Spain and the crown prince Ferdinand to
							meet him at Bayonne. Here he was able to persuade or force both of them to surrender
							their rights to the throne,1
							and on June 6 he appointed his brother Joseph king of Spain. Murat, one of Napoleon's
							ablest generals, who had married his sister, succeeded Joseph on the throne of
							Naples.

						Revolt in Spain against the foreign ruler (1808)

						Joseph entered Madrid in July, armed with excellent intentions and a new
							constitution. The general rebellion in favor of the Crown Prince Ferdinand, which
							immediately broke out, had an element of religious enthusiasm in it; for the monks
							stirred up the people against Napoleon, on the ground that he was an enemy of the Pope
							and an oppressor of the Church. One French army was captured at Bail6n, and another
							capitulated to the English forces which had landed in Portugal. Before the end of July
							Joseph and the French troops had been compelled to retreat behind the Ebro River.

						1 Charles IV resigned all
							his rights to the crown of Spain and the Indies "to the emperor of the French as the
							only person who, in the existing state of affairs, can reestablish order." He and his
							disreputable queen retired to Rome, while Napoleon kept Ferdinand under guard in
							Talleyrand's country estate. Here this despicable prince lived for six years,
							occasionally writing a cringing letter to Napoleon. In 1814 he was restored to the
							Spanish throne as Ferdinand VII, and, as we shall see later, showed himself the
							consistent enemy of reform. See below, sect. 37.

						

						Spain subdued by arms (December, 1808)

						In November the French emperor himself led into Spain a magnificent army, two hundred
							thousand strong, in the best of condition and commanded by his ablest marshals. The
							Spanish troops, perhaps one hundred thousand in number, were ill clad and inadequately
							equipped; what was worse, they were over-confident in view of their late victory. They
							were, of course, defeated, and Madrid surrendered on December 4. Napoleon thereupon
							issued a proclamation to the Spanish people in which he said, "It depends upon you
							alone whether this moderate constitution that I offer you shall henceforth be your
							law. Should all my efforts prove vain, and should you refuse to justify my confidence,
							then nothing will remain for me but to treat you as a conquered province and find a
							new throne for my brother. In that case I shall myself assume the crown of Spain and
							teach the ill-disposed to respect that crown, for God has given me the power and the
							will to overcome all obstacles."

						Napoleon begins radical reform in Spain

						Decrees were immediately issued in which Napoleon abolished all vestiges of the
							feudal system, and declared that it should be free to every one who conformed to the
							laws to carry on any industry that he pleased. The tribunal of the Inquisition, for
							which Spain had been noted for hundreds of years,1 was abolished and its property seized. The monasteries and
							convents were to be reduced to one third of their number, and no one, for the time
							being, was to be permitted to take any monastic vows. The customs lines which
							separated the Spanish provinces and hampered trade were obliterated and the
							customhouses transferred to the frontiers of the kingdom. These measures illustrate
							the way in which Napoleon spread the principles of the French Revolution by arms in
							those states which, in spite of their benevolent despots, still clung to their
							half-mediaeval institutions.

						Spain continues to require the presence of French troops

						The next month Napoleon was back in Paris, as he saw that he had another war with
							Austria on his hands. He left Joseph 1 See Development of Modern
										Europe, Vol. I, p. 192.
							
							
							 
							
							 on a very insecure throne, and, in spite of the
							arrogant confidence of his proclamation to the Spaniards, he was soon to discover that
							they could maintain a guerilla warfare against which his best troops and most
							distinguished generals were powerless. His ultimate downfall was in no small measure
							due to the persistent hostility of the Spanish people.

						Austria takes the field against Napoleon (April, 1809)

						Austria was fearful, since Napoleon had gained Russia's friendship, that he might be
							tempted, should he succeed in putting down the stubborn resistance of the Spaniards,
							still further to increase his empire at her expense. She had been reorganizing and
							increasing her army, and decided that it was best to strike while some two hundred
							thousand of Napoleon's troops were busy in Spain. So the Austrian emperor's brother,
							the Archduke Charles, led his forces westward in April, 1809, and issued an appeal to
							the German nation in which he urged them to imitate the heroic Spaniards and rise
							against their oppressors. Although there was an ever-growing party in Prussia and
							southern Germany which longed to throw off Napoleon's yoke, the king of Prussia
							refused to join Austria unless Russia would lend her aid. The monarchs who composed
							the Confederation of the Rhine also clung to their "Protector," so Austria was left to
							meet "the enemy of Europe" single-handed.

						Battles of Aspern and Wagram (May and July, 1808)

						After defeating the Archduke Charles in Bavaria, Napoleon marched on to Vienna, but
							he did not succeed in crushing the Austrian forces as easily and promptly as he had
							done at Austerlitz in 1805. Indeed he was actually defeated at the battle of Aspern
							(May 21-22), but finally gained a rather doubtful victory in the fearful battle of
							Wagram, near Vienna (July 5-6). Austria was disheartened and again consented to
							conclude a peace quite as humiliating as that of Pressburg.

						The Treaty of Vienna (October, 1809)

						She had announced that her object in going to war once more was the destruction of
							Napoleon's system of dependent states and had proposed "to restore to their rightful
							possessors all those lands belonging to them respectively before the Napoleonic
							usurpation." The battle of Wagram put an  end to these
							dreams and the emperor of Austria was forced to surrender to the victor and his
							friends extensive territories, together with four million Austrian subjects. A strip
							of land, including Salzburg, was given to the king of Bavaria; on the north, Galicia
							(which Austria had received in the first partition of Poland) was ceded to Napoleon's
							ally, the grand duke of Warsaw; and finally, along the Adriatic, Napoleon exacted a
							district which he added to his own empire under the name of the Illyrian Provinces.
							This last cession served to cut Austria entirely off from the sea.

						Napoleon marries the Archduchess Maria Louisa (April 1810)

						The new Austrian. minister, Metternich, was anxious to establish a permanent alliance
							with the seemingly invincible emperor of the French and did all he could to heal the
							breach between Austria and France by a royal marriage. Napoleon ardently desired an
							heir to whom he could transmit his vast dominions. As Josephine had borne him no
							children, he decided to divorce her, and, after considering and rejecting a Russian
							princess, he married (April, 1810) the Archduchess Maria Louisa, the daughter of the
							Austrian emperor and a grandniece of Marie Antoinette. In this way the former Corsican
							adventurer gained admission to one of the oldest and proudest of reigning families,
							the Hapsburgs. His second wife soon bore him a son, who was styled " King of
							Rome."

						Napoleon "reunites" the Papal States to France (1809)

						While Napoleon was in the midst of the war with Austria, he had issued a proclamation
							"reuniting" the Papal States to the French Empire. He argued that it was Charlemagne,
							emperor, of the French, his august predecessor, who had given the lands to the Popes
							and that now, since the tranquillity and welfare of his people required that the
							territory be reunited to France, it was his obvious duty to deprive the Pope of his
							dominions.

						Annexation of Holland and the Hanseatic towns (1810)

						Holland, it will be remembered, had been formed into a kingdom under the rule of
							Napoleon's brother Louis. The brothers had never agreed,1 and in 1810 Holland was annexed 1 Louis Bonaparte, the father of Napoleon III,
								and the most conscientious of the Bonaparte family, had been so harassed by Napoleon
								that he had abdicated.
							 to France, as well as the German territory to the
							north, including the great ports of Bremen, Hamburg, and Lübeck.

						Maximum extent of Napoleon's power

						Napoleon had now reached the zenith of his power. All of western Europe, except
							England, was apparently under his control. France itself reached from the Baltic
							nearly to the Bay of Naples and included a considerable district beyond the Adriatic.
							The emperor of the French was also king of Italy and "protector" of the Confederation
							of the Rhine, which now included all of the German states except Austria and the
							remains of the kingdom of Prussia. Napoleon's brother Joseph was king of Spain, and
							his brother-in-law, Murat, king of Naples. Poland once more appeared on the map as the
							grand duchy of Warsaw, a faithful ally of its "restorer." The possessions of the
							emperor of Austria had so shrunk on the west that Hungary was now by far the most
							important part of Francis I's realms,1 but he had the satisfaction of beholding in his grandson, the king of Rome,
							the heir to unprecedented power. Surely in the history of the world there is nothing
							comparable to the career of Napoleon Bonaparte ! He was, as a sage Frenchman has said,
							"as great as a man can be without virtue."
					

					

						THE FALL OF NAPOLEON

						Insecurity of Napoleon's achievements

						31. But all Napoleon's military genius, his statesmanship, his
							tireless vigilance, and his absolute unscrupulousness could not invent means by which
							an empire such as he had built up could be held together permanently. Even if he
							could, by force or persuasion, have induced the monarchs to remain his vassals, he
							could not cope with the growing spirit of nationality among their subjects which made
							subordination to a French ruler seem a more and more shameful thing to Spaniards,
							Germans, and Italians alike. Moreover there were two governments that he had not
							succeeded in conquering,-- England and Russia.

						1 Emperor Francis II of the
							Holy Roman Empire had become Francis I, emperor of Austria.

						

						Wellington and the English in Spain (1808-1812)
						The lines of Torres Vedras

						The English, far from begging for peace on account of the continental blockade, had
							annihilated the French sea power and now began to attack Napoleon on land. Sir Arthur
							Wellesley (a commander who had made a reputation in India, and who is better known by
							his later title of the Duke of Wellington) had landed English troops in Portugal
							(August, 1808) and forced Junot and the French army to evacuate the country. While
							Napoleon was busy about Vienna in 1809 Wellesley had invaded Spain and gained a
							victory over the French there. He then retired again to Portugal where he lines of
							Torres Vedras-- on a rocky promontory near Lisbon. From here he could carry on his
							operations against the French with security and success. He and his Spanish allies
							continued to occupy the attention of about three hundred thousand of Napoleon's troops
							and some of his very best generals. So Napoleon never really conquered Spain, which
							proved a constant drain on his resources, a source of humiliation to him and of
							exultation and encouragement to his enemies.

						Relations between Napoleon and Alexander I of Russia

						Among the continental states Russia alone was entirely out of Napoleon's control. Up
							to this time the agreement of Tilsit had been maintained. There were, however, plenty
							of causes for misunderstanding between the ardent young Tsar, Alexander I, and
							Napoleon. Napoleon was secretly opposing, instead of aiding, Alexander's plans for
							adding the Danubian provinces to his possessions. Then the possibility of Napoleon's
							reestablishing Poland as a national kingdom, which might threaten Russia's interests,
							was a constant source of apprehension to Alexander.

						Russia could not afford to enforce the continental blockade

						The chief difficulty lay, however, in Russia's unwillingness to enforce the
							continental blockade. The Tsar was willing, in accordance with the Treaty of Tilsit,
							to continue to close his harbors to English ships, but he refused to accede to
							Napoleon's demand that he shut out vessels sailing under a neutral flag. Russia had to
							dispose of her own products in some way 
							
								MARSHAL NEY SUSTAINING THE READ GUAD OF THE GRAND ARMY ON THE
									RETREAT FROM MOSCOW
							
							
							 and to obtain English manufactures, as well as coffee,
							sugar, spices, and other tropical and semi-tropical products which she had no hope of
							producing herself. Her comfort and prosperity depended, therefore, upon the neutral
							vessels which visited her Baltic ports.

						Napoleon determines to attach Russia (1812)

						Napoleon viewed the open Russian ports as a fatal flaw in his continental system and
							began to make preparations for an attack upon his doubtful friend, who was already
							beginning to look like an enemy. In 1812 he believed that he was ready to subdue even
							distant Russia. His more far-sighted counselors vainly attempted to dissuade him by
							pointing out the fearful risks that he was taking. Deaf to their warnings, he
							collected on the Russian frontier a vast army of half a million men, composed to a
							great extent of young French recruits and the contingents furnished by his allies.

						Napoleon's campaign in Russia (1812)

						The story of the fearful Russian campaign which followed cannot be told here in
							detail. Napoleon had planned to take three years to conquer Russia, but he was forced
							on by the necessity of gaining at least one signal victory before he closed the first
							season's campaign. The Russians simply retreated and led him far within a hostile and
							devastated country before they offered battle at Borodino (September 7). Napoleon won
							the battle, but his army was reduced to something over one hundred thousand men when
							he entered Moscow a week later. The town had been set on fire by the Russians before
							his arrival; he found his position untenable, and had to retreat as winter came on.
							The cold, the lack of food, and the harassing attacks of the people along the route
							made that retreat the most signal military tragedy on record. Napoleon regained Poland
							early in December, accompanied by scarcely twenty thousand men of the five hundred
							thousand with whom he had opened the campaign less than six months before.1

						1 This does not mean that
							all but twenty thousand had been killed. Some of the contingents, that of Prussia for
							example, did not take an active part in the war. Some idea of the horrors of the
							Russian campaign may be obtained from the descriptions given in the Readings, sect. 46.

						

						Napoleon collects a new army

						He hastened back to Paris, where he freely misrepresented the true state of affairs,
							even declaring that the army was in good condition up to the time when he had turned
							it over to Murat in December. While the loss of men in the Russian campaign was
							enormous, just those few had naturally survived who would be most essential in the
							formation of a new army, namely the officers. With their help Napoleon soon had a
							force of no less than six hundred thousand men with which to return to the attack.
							This contained one hundred and fifty thousand conscripts who should not have been
							called into service until 1814, besides older men who had been hitherto exempted.

						What Prussia had suffered from Napoleon

						The first of his allies to desert Napoleon was Prussia,-- and no wonder. She had felt
							his tyranny as no other country had. He had not only taken her lands; he had cajoled
							and insulted her; he had forced her to send her ablest minister, Stein, into exile
							because he had aroused the French emperor's dislike; he had opposed every measure of
							reform which might have served to strengthen the diminished kingdom which he had left
							to Frederick William III.

						Reform of Prussia after the battle of Jena

						Prussia, notwithstanding the reforms of Frederick the Great, had retained its
							half-feudal institutions down to the decisive defeat of Jena. The agricultural classes
							were serfs bound to the soil and compelled to work a certain part of each week for
							their lords without remuneration. The population was still divided into three distinct
							castes, nobles, burghers, and peasants, who could not acquire one another's land. The
							disaster of Jena and the losses at Tilsit convinced the statesmen of Prussia-- among
							whom Baron von Stein and Prince Hardenberg were conspicuous-- that the country's only
							hope of recovery was a complete social and political revolution not unlike that which
							had taken place in France. They saw that the old system must be abolished, the
							peasants freed, and the restrictions which hedged about the different classes done
							away with, before it would be possible to arouse public spirit to a point where a
							great popular uprising might expel the intruder forever.

						

						Abolition of serfdom in Prussia (October, 1807)

						The first step toward this general reform was the royal decree of October 9,
								1807,1 intended to "remove
							every obstacle that has hitherto prevented the individual from attaining such a degree
							of prosperity as he is capable of reaching." Serfdom was abolished and the
							restrictions on landholding removed, so that any one, regardless of class, was at
							liberty to purchase and hold landed property of every kind.

						Founding of the University of Berlin
						The Tugendbund

						Every thoughtful Prussian had been deeply shocked by the cowardly way in which the
							enemy had been permitted to occupy the whole country after a single defeat. Men like
							William von Humboldt and the philosopher Fichte forwarded a moral and educational
							reform. The University of Berlin, now one of the foremost institutions of learning in
							the world, was founded, and four hundred and fifty-eight students matriculated during
							the first year (1810-1811). The Gymnasien, or high schools, were
							also greatly improved. A League of Virtue (Tugendbund), which was
							formed for the encouragement of morality and public spirit, did much to foster the
							growing love for the fatherland and the ever-increasing hatred of French
							domination.

						The nationalizing of the Prussian army by Scharnhorst

						The old army of Frederick the Great had been completely discredited, and a few days
							after the signature of the Treaty of Tilsit, a commission for military reorganization
							was appointed with a military genius, Scharnhorst, at its head. The main aim of
							Scharnhorst was to give every man a share in the work of defending his country.
							Napoleon permitted Prussia to maintain an army of no more than forty-two thousand men,
							but Scharnhorst arranged that this should constantly be recruited by new men, while
							those who had had some training in the ranks should retire and form a reserve. In this
							way, in spite of the small size of the regular army, there were as many as one hundred
							and fifty thousand men ready to fight when the opportunity should come. (This system
							was later adopted by 1 This decree may be found in the Readings,
									sect. 46.
							 the other European states and is the basis of all the
							great armies of to-day.) Moreover the custom of permitting only nobles to be officers
							was abandoned, and foreign mercenaries were no longer to be employed.

						Yorck deserts Napoleon

						The Prussian contingent which Napoleon had ordered to support him in his campaign
							against Alexander was under the command of Yorck. It had held back and so was not
							involved in the destruction of the main army. On learning of Napoleon's retreat from
							Moscow, Yorck joined the Russians.

						Prussia joins Russia against Napoleon (February, 1813)

						This action of Yorck and the influence of public opinion finally induced the
							faint-hearted king, who was still apprehensive of Napoleon's vengeance, to sign a
							treaty with the Tsar (February 27, 1813), in which Russia agreed not to lay down arms
							until Prussia should be restored to a total area equal to that she had possessed
							before the fatal battle of Jena. It was understood that she should give up to the Tsar
							all that she had received in the second and third partitions of Poland and be
							indemnified by annexations in northern Germany. This proved a very important
							stipulation. On March 17 Frederick William issued a proclamation "To my People," in
							which he summoned his subjects-- Brandenburgers, Prussians, Silesians, Pomeranians,
							and Lithuanians-- to follow the example of the Spaniards and free their country from
							the rule of a faithless and insolent tyrant.

						Napoleon's campaign in Saxony (1813)

						Napoleon's situation was, however, by no means desperate so long as Italy, Austria,
							and the Confederation of the Rhine stood by him. With the new army which he had
							collected after his disastrous campaign in Russia the previous year, he marched to
							Leipzig, where he found the Russians and the Prussians under Blücher awaiting him. He
							once more defeated the allies at Lützen (May 2, 1813), and then moved on to Dresden,
							the capital of his faithful friend, the king of Saxony. During the summer he inflicted
							several defeats upon the allies, and on August 26-27 he won his last great victory,
							the battle of Dresden.

						

						Austria and Sweden turn against Napoleon

						Metternich's friendship had grown cold as Napoleon's position became more and more
							uncertain. He was willing to maintain the alliance between Austria and France if
							Napoleon would abandon a considerable portion of his conquests since 1806. As Napoleon
							refused to do this, Austria joined the allies in August. Meanwhile Sweden, which a
							year or two before had chosen one of Napoleon's marshals, Bernadotte, as its crown
								prince,1 also joined the
							allies and sent an army into northern Germany.

						Napoleon defeated in the battle of Leipzig (October, 1813)

						Finding that the allied armies of Russia, Prussia, Austria, and Sweden, under
							excellent generals like Blücher and Bernadotte, had at last learned that it was
							necessary to cooperate if they hoped to crush their ever-alert enemy, and that they
							were preparing to cut him off from France, Napoleon retreated early in October to
							Leipzig. Here the tremendous "Battle of the Nations," as the Germans love to call it,
							raged for four days. No less than one hundred and twenty thousand men were killed or
							wounded and Napoleon was totally defeated (October 16-19).

						The dissolution of Napoleon's campus

						As the emperor of the French escaped across the Rhine with the remnants of his army,
							the whole fabric of his vast political edifice crumbled. The members of the
							Confederation of the Rhine renounced their protector and joined the allies. Jerome
							fled from his kingdom of Westphalia, and the Dutch drove the French officials out of
							Holland. Wellington had been steadily and successfully engaged in aiding the Spanish
							against their common enemy and by the end of 1813 Spain was practically cleared of the
							French intruders so that Wellington could press on across the Pyrenees into
								France.2

						1 See below, p. 230.

						2 The United States
							exasperated by England's interference with her commerce and her impressment of
							American seamen declared war against Great Britain in June, 1812. This exercised no
							appreciable effect upon the course of affairs in Europe. The Americans succeeded in
							capturing a surprising number of English ships and preventing the enemy from invading
							New England or taking New Orleans. On the other hand, the English succeeded in
							defending the Canadian boundary and took and destroyed Washington (August, 1814) just
							before the opening of the Congress of Vienna. Peace was concluded at Ghent before the
							end of the year, after about a year and a half of hostilities.

						

						Occupation of Paris by the allies (March 31, 1814
						Napoleon abdicates and is banished to the island of Elba

						In spite of these disasters, Napoleon refused the propositions of peace made on
							condition that he would content himself henceforth with his dominion over France. The
							allies consequently marched into France, and the almost superhuman activity of the
							hard-pressed emperor could not prevent their occupation of Paris (March 31, 1814).
							Napoleon was forced to abdicate, and the allies, in seeming derision, granted him full
							sovereignty over the tiny island of Elba, off the coast of Tuscany, and permitted him
							to retain his imperial title. In reality he was a prisoner on his island kingdom, and
							the Bourbons reigned again in France.

						Return of Napoleon

						Within a year, encouraged by the dissensions of the allies and the unpopularity of
							the Bourbons, he made his escape, landed in France (March 1, 1815), and was received
							with enthusiasm by a portion of the army. Yet France as a whole was indifferent, if
							not hostile, to his attempt to reestablish his power. Certainly no one could place
							confidence in his talk of peace and liberty. Moreover, whatever disagreement there
							might be among the allies on other matters, there was perfect unanimity in their
							attitude toward "the enemy and destroyer of the world's peace." They solemnly
							proclaimed him an outlaw, and devoted him to public vengeance.

						Battle of Waterloo, June, 1815

						Upon learning that English troops under Wellington and a Prussian army under Blücher
							had arrived in the Netherlands, Napoleon decided to attack them with such troops as he
							could collect. In the first engagements he defeated and drove back the Prussians.
							Wellington then took his station south of Brussels, at Waterloo. Napoleon advanced
							against him (June 18, 1815) and might have defeated the English had they not been
							opportunely reinforced by Blücher's Prussians, who had recovered themselves. As it
							was, Napoleon lost the most memorable of modern battles. Yet even if he had not been
							defeated at Waterloo, he could not long have opposed the vast armies which were being
							concentrated to overthrow him.

						

						Napoleon banished to St. Helena

						The fugitive emperor hastened to the coast, but found it so carefully guarded by
							English ships that he decided to throw himself upon the generosity of the English
							nation. The British government treated him, however, as a dangerous prisoner of war
							rather than as a retired foreign general and statesman of distinction who desired, as
							he claimed, to finish his days in peaceful seclusion. He was banished with a few
							companions and guards to the remote island of Saint Helena.1 Here he spent the six years until his death
							on May 5, 1821, brooding over his past glories and dictating his memoirs, in which he
							strove to justify his career and explain his motives.

						The Napoleonic legend

						"For the general history of Europe the captivity at St. Helena possesses a double
							interest. Not only did it invest the career of the fallen hero with an atmosphere of
							martyrdom and pathos, which gave it a new and distinct appeal, but it enabled him to
							arrange a pose before the mirror of history, to soften away all that had been
							ungracious and hard and violent, and to draw in firm and authoritative outline a
							picture of his splendid achievements and liberal designs. . . The great captain, hero
							of adventures wondrous as the Arabian Nights, passes over the
							mysterious ocean to his lonely island and emerges transfigured as in some ennobling
								mirage."2
					

					
						REFERENCES
								Napoleon's Reforms in France: FOURNIER,
										Napoleon, chap. ix, pp. 221-241; JOHNSTON,
										Napoleon, chap. vii, pp. 88-102; ROSE, Life of Napoleon I, Vol. I, chap. xii, pp. 245-278; Cambridge Modern History, Vol. IX, chaps. v-vii, pp. 107-207.
								1 An isolated rocky
									island lying south of the equator between Brazil and the African coast, from which
									it is separated by some thirteen hundred miles of water.
								2 H. A. L. Fisher in
									the Cambridge Modern History, Vol. IX, p. 757. Some historians
									have accepted Napoleon at his own valuation, among them J. S. C. Abbott, whose
									popular but misleading life of Napoleon has given thousands of readers a wholly
									false notion of his character and aims.
								
								Campaign of Austerlitz: FOURNIER, chap.
									xi, pp. 283-324; FYFFE, History of Modern
										Europe, chap, vi, pp. 179-207; JOHNSTON, chap. ix, pp.
									119-129; ROSE, Vol. II, chap. xxii, pp. 1-46.
								Napoleon's Creation of New States: FOURNIER, chap. xii, PP. 325-355.
								The Continental System:
									Cambridge Modern History, Vol. IX, chap. xiii, pp.
									361-389.
								Jena and Tilsit: FOURNIER, chap. xiii,
									pp. 356-390; FYFFE, chap. vii, pp. 208-246; JOHNSTON, pp. 130-147; ROSE, Vol. II, chaps. xxiv-xxvii,
									pp. 47-145.
								Napoleon's Empire at its Height: FOURNIER, chap. xvi, pp. 493-535 ; FYFFE, chap. ix, pp.
									271-306; ROSE, Vol. II, chap. xxxi, pp. 192-212.
								Russian Campaign: FOURNIER, chap. xvii,
									pp. 536-579; FYFFE, chap. x, pp. 307-329; JOHNSTON, pp. 174-188; ROSE, Vol. II, chap. xxxii, pp.
									213-245; Cambridge Modern History, Vol. IX, chap. xvi, pp.
									483-505.
								German War of Liberation: FOURNIER, chap.
									xviii, pp. 580-642; FYFFE, chap. xi, pp. 330-367; JOHNSTON, chap. xiv, pp. 189-209; ROSE, Vol.
									II, chap. xxxv, pp. 303-366; Cambridge Modern History, Vol. IX,
									chap. xvii, pp. 506-554.
								Waterloo: FOURNIER, chap. xx, pp.
									694-720; JOHNSTON, chap. xviii, pp. 223-238 ; ROSE, Vol. II, chap. xxxix, pp. 417-471 ; Cambridge Modern
										History, Vol. IX, chap. xx, pp. 616-645.
					
				

				

					

					CHAPTER X
						THE RECONSTRUCTION OF EUROPE AT THE CONGRESS OF VIENNA

					
						THE CONGRESS OF VIENNA AND ITS WORK

						Extreme difficulty of adjusting the map of Europe after the great
							changes of the Napoleonic Period

						32. The readjustment of the map of Europe after Napoleon's downfall
							was an extremely perplexing and delicate operation. Geographical lines centuries old
							had been swept away by the storms of war and the ambition of the conqueror. Many
							ancient states had disappeared altogether,-- Venice, Genoa, Piedmont, the Papal
							States, Holland, and scores of little German principalities. These had been either
							merged into France or the realms of their more fortunate neighbors, or formed into new
							countries,-- the kingdom of Italy, the kingdom of Westphalia, the Confederation of the
							Rhine, the grand duchy of Warsaw. Those which had survived had, with the exception of
							England and Russia, received new bounds, new rulers, or new institutions. When
							Napoleon was forced to abdicate, the princes whose former patrimonies had vanished
							from the map, or who had been thrust aside, clamored to be restored to their thrones.
							The great powers, England, Austria, Russia, and Prussia, whose rulers had been able
							with more or less success to resist the despoiler and had finally combined to bring
							about his overthrow, naturally assumed the r81e of arbiters in the settlement. But
							they were far from impartial judges, since each proposed to gain for itself the
							greatest possible advantages in the reapportionment of territory.

						Some matters settled at the first Peace of Paris, May 30, 1814

						The least troublesome points were settled by the allies in the first Treaty of Paris,
							which had been concluded in May, 1814, immediately after Napoleon had been sent to
							Elba. They readily agreed, for instance, that the Bourbon dynasty  should be restored to the throne of France in the person of Louis XVI's
							younger brother, the count of Provence, who took the title of Louis XVIII.1 They at first permitted France
							to retain the boundaries she had had on November 1, 1792, but later deprived her of
							Savoy as a penalty for yielding to Napoleon after his return from Elba.2 The powers also agreed, at
							Paris, upon a kingdom of the Netherlands, with increased territories, to be
							established under the House of Orange; the union of Germany into a confederation of
							sovereign states; the independence of Switzerland; and the restoration of the
							monarchical states of Italy. The graver issues and the details of the settlement were
							left to the consideration of the great congress which was to convene at Vienna in the
								autumn.3

						Holland made a kingdom and given the former Austrian
							Netherlands

						Some questions, however, the allies easily settled. They confirmed their former
							decision that Holland should become an hereditary kingdom under the House of Orange,
							which had so long played a conspicuous rôle in the nominal republic. In order that
							Holland might be better able to check any encroachments on the part of France, the
							Austrian Netherlands (which had been seized by the French Convention early in the
							revolutionary wars) were joined to the new Dutch kingdom. The fact that most of the
							inhabitants of the Austrian Netherlands were not closely connected by language,4 traditions, or religion with the
							Dutch had no weight in the councils of the powers, just as no such consideration had
							arisen in former times when the provinces had passed to Spain by inheritance 1 The young son of Louis XVI
								had been imprisoned by the Convention and, according to reports, maltreated by the
								jailers set to guard him. His fate has been a fruitful theme of historical
								discussion, but it is probable that he died in 1795. Though he never exercised power
								in any form, he takes his place in the line of French kings as Louis XVII.
							2 The second Peace of
								Paris (November, 1815) also provided for the return of the works of art and
								manuscripts which Napoleon had carried off from Venice, Milan, Rome, Naples, and
								elsewhere.
							3 On the rivalry of the
								rulers at the Congress of Vienna, see Readings, Vol. I, p.
								375.
							4 About half the people
								of Belgium to-day speak French, while the remainder use Flemish, a dialect akin to
								Dutch, and a few speak German.
							 and, later, to Austria by conquest. The Vienna Congress
							simply continued the old policy of carving out and distributing states among princes
							without regard to the wishes of the people concerned.

						The consolidation of Germany leaves only thirty-eight surviving
							states
						Strengthening of Germany's western boundary

						The territorial settlement of Germany did not prove to be so difficult as might have
							been expected. No one except the petty princes and the ecclesiastics desired to undo
							the work 1803 and restore the old minute subdivisions which had been done away with by
							the Reichsdeputationshauptschluss. The restoration of the Holy Roman
							Empire could not be seriously considered by any one, but some sort of union between
							the surviving thirty-eight German states seemed to be expedient. They were accordingly
							united by a very loose bond, which permitted the former members of the Confederation
							of the Rhine to continue to enjoy that precious " sovereignty" which Napoleon had
							granted them. Formerly that portion of Germany which lies on the Rhine had been so
							broken up into little states that France was constantly tempted to take advantage of
							this disintegration to encroach upon German territory. After 1815 this source of
							weakness was partially remedied, for Prussia was assigned a large tract on the Rhine,
							while Bavaria, Baden, and Würtemberg stood by her side to discourage new aggressions
							from their dangerous enemy on the west.

						In the readjustment of Italy, Austria assigned a predominating
							influence

						Italy was not so fortunate as Germany in securing greater unity than she had enjoyed
							before the French Revolution. Napoleon had reduced and consolidated her various
							divisions into the kingdom of Italy, of which he was the head, and the kingdom of
							Naples, which he had finally bestowed on Murat, while Piedmont, Genoa, Tuscany, and
							the Papal States he had annexed to France.1 Naturally the powers had no reason for maintaining this
							arrangement and determined to restore all the former monarchical states. Tuscany,
							Modena, the Papal States, 1 Nothing need be said of a half dozen petty Italian territories,-- Lucca,
								San Marino, Benevento, etc.
							 and Naples were given back to their former princes, and
							little Parma was assigned to Napoleon's second wife, the Austrian princess, Maria
							Louisa. The king of Sardinia returned from his island and reestablished himself in
							Turin. There were few at the congress to plead for a revival of the ancient republics
							of Genoa and Venice. The lands of the former were therefore added to those of the king
							of Sardinia, in order to make as firm a bulwark as possible against France. Austria
							deemed the territories of Venice a fair compensation for the loss of the Netherlands,
							and was accordingly permitted to add Venetia to her old duchy of Milan and thus form a
							new province in northern Italy, the so-called Lombardo-Venetian kingdom.

						Switzerland

						Switzerland gave the allies but little trouble. The Congress of Vienna recognized the
							cantons as all free and equal, and established their "neutrality" by agreeing never to
							invade Switzerland or send troops through her territory. The cantons (which had been
							joined by the former free city of Geneva) then drew up a new constitution, which bound
							them together into a federation consisting of twenty-two little states.

						Personal union of Sweden and Norway under the rule of the House of
							Bernadotte

						The Congress of Vienna ratified an arrangement by which Sweden and Norway were joined
							under a single ruler, one of Napoleon's generals, Bernadotte. The Norwegians
							protested, drew up a constitution of their own, and elected a king, but Bernadotte
							induced them to accept him as their ruler on condition that Norway should have its own
							separate constitution and government. This was the origin of the "personal union"1 of Sweden and Norway under
							Bernadotte and his successors, which lasted until October, 1905.2

						1 This is the term applied
							in international law to describe the union of two or more independent states under a
							single ruler.

						2 This personal union
							worked very well so long as the joint king was tolerably free from control by the
							Swedish parliament, for the Norwegians had their own constitution and parliament, or
							Storthing, as it is called, and they could regard themselves as practically
							independent under a sovereign who also happened to be king of Sweden. However,
							especially near the close of the nineteenth century, the interests of the two
							countries diverged more and more widely. With the development of parliamentary
							government the diets of both countries desired to control the king's choice of
							ministers and the foreign policy of the two kingdoms. So, after a long period of
							friction, the two states agreed to separate on October 26, 19o5. Sweden retained her
							old king, Oscar II (1872-1907), while Norway elected as king Prince Carl, second son
							of Frederick, king of Denmark, and gave him the title of Haakon VII. The Norwegians
							still retain the constitution which was drawn up in 1814, but it has been several
							times modified by democratic measures. See Seignobos, Political History
								of Europe since 1814, pp. 554-556.

						
						

						

						
						

						Russia and Prussia agree upon the fate of the grand duchy of Warsaw
							and of the kingdom of Saxony

						In these adjustments all was fairly harmonious, but when it came to the rewards
							claimed by Russia and Prussia there developed at the congress serious differences of
							opinion which nearly brought on war between the allies themselves, and which
							encouraged Napoleon's return from Elba. Russia desired the grand duchy of Warsaw,
							which Napoleon had formed principally out of the territory seized by Austria and
							Prussia in the partitions of the previous century. The Tsar proposed to increase this
							duchy by the addition of a portion of Russian Poland and so form a kingdom to be
							united in a personal union with his other dominions. The king of Prussia agreed to
							this plan on condition that he should be indemnified for the loss of a large portion
							of his former Polish territories by the annexation of the lands of the king of Saxony,
							who, it was argued, merited this retribution for remaining faithful to Napoleon after
							the other members of the Confederation of the Rhine had deserted him.

						England, Austria, and France prepare to oppose the plans of Russia
							and Prussia
						Skillful diplomacy of Talleyrand

						Austria and England, on the other hand, were opposed to this arrangement. They did
							not approve of dispossessing the king of Saxony or of extending the Tsar's influence
							westward by giving him Poland; and Austria had special grounds for objection because a
							large portion of the duchy of Warsaw which the Tsar proposed to take had formerly
							belonged to her. The great French diplomatist, Talleyrand, now saw his chance to
							disturb the good will existing between England, Prussia, Austria, and Russia. The
							allies had resolved to treat France as a black sheep and arrange everything to suit
							themselves. But now that they were hopelessly at odds Austria and England found the
							hitherto discredited France a welcome ally. Acting with the consent of Louis XVIII,
							Talleyrand offered to Austria the aid  of French arms in
							resisting the proposal of Russia and Prussia, and on January 3, 1815, France, England,
							and Austria joined in a secret treaty against Russia and Prussia, and even went so far
							as to draw up a plan of campaign. So France, the disturber of the peace of Europe for
							the last quarter of a century, was received back into the family of nations, and the
							French ambassador joyfully announced to his king that the coalition against France was
							dissolved forever.

						The Tsar gets Poland, and Prussia becomes powerful on the
							Rhine

						A compromise was, however, at length arranged without resorting to arms. The Tsar
							gave up a small portion of the duchy of Warsaw, but was allowed to create the kingdom
							of Poland on which he had set his heart. Only about one half of the possessions of the
							king of Saxony were ceded to Prussia, but as a further indemnity Prussia received
							certain districts on the left bank of the Rhine, which had belonged to petty lay and
							ecclesiastical princes before the Peace of Lunéville. This proved an important gain
							for Prussia, although it was not considered so at the time. It gave her a large number
							of German subjects in exchange for the Poles she lost, and so prepared the way for her
							to become the dominant power in Germany.

						Map of Europe in 1815 as compared with the conditions established by
							the Treaty of Utrecht

						If one compares the map of Europe as it was reconstructed by the plenipotentiaries of
							the great powers at Vienna, with the situation after the Treaty of Utrecht a hundred
							years before, several very important changes are apparent. A general consolidation had
							been effected. Holland and the Austrian Netherlands were united under one king. The
							Holy Roman Empire, with its hundreds of petty principalities, had disappeared and a
							union of thirty-eight states and free towns had taken its place. Prussia had greatly
							increased the extent of its German territories, although these remained rather
							scattered. The kingdom of Poland still appeared on the map, but had lost its
							independence and been reduced in extent. Portions of it had fallen to Prussia and
							Austria, but the great mass of Polish territory was now brought under the control of
							the Tsar, who was no longer regarded by the western nations as an eastern  potentate, but was regularly admitted to their councils.
							Austria had lost her outlying provinces of the Netherlands, which had proved so
							troublesome, but had been indemnified by the lands of the extinct Venetian republic,
							while her future rival in Italy, the king of Sardinia, had been strengthened by
							receiving the important city of Genoa and the adjacent territory. Otherwise, Italy
							remained in her former state of disruption and more completely than ever under the
							control of Austria.

						England gains Ceylon and the Cape of Good Hope

						The gains of England resulting from the Napoleonic conflict, like all her other
							acquisitions since the War of the Spanish Succession, were colonial. The most
							important of these were Ceylon, off the southeastern coast of the Indian peninsula,
							and the Cape of Good Hope, which had been wrested from the Dutch (18o6) while they
							were under Napoleon's influence. This seemingly insignificant conquest proved to be
							the basis of the British expansion which has secured the most valuable portions of
							southern Africa.1

						Vast extent of England's colonial posessions in 1815

						In spite of the loss of the American colonies on the eve of the French Revolution,
							England possessed in 1815 the foundations of the greatest commercial and colonial
							power which has ever existed. She still held Canada and all the vast northwest of the
							North American continent, except Alaska. Important islands in the West Indies
							furnished stations from which a lucrative trade with South America could be carried
							on. In Gibraltar she had a sentinel at the gateway of the Mediterranean, and the
							possession of the Cape of Good Hope not only afforded a basis for pressing into the
							heart of the most habitable part of Africa, but also a halfway port for vessels bound
							to distant India. In India the beginnings of 1 England also received from France the island of Mauritius in
								the Indian Ocean, east of Madagascar; Tobago, a small island north of the mouth of
								the Orinoco river; and Saint Lucia, one of the Windward Islands. From Spain England
								got the island of Trinidad near Tobago, and from Denmark the island of Heligoland,
								commanding the mouth of the Elbe (recently ceded to Germany). In the Mediterranean
								England held Malta and, as a protectorate, the Ionian Islands off the coast of
								Greece, thus securing a basis for operations in the eastern Mediterranean.
							 empire had already been made in the Bengal region and
							along the east and west coasts. Finally, in Australia, far away in the southern
							Pacific, penal settlements had been made which were in time to be supplanted by rich,
							populous, and prosperous commonwealths. In addition to her colonial strength England
							possessed the most formidable navy and the largest mercantile marine afloat.

						The Congress of Vienna, under the influence of England, condemns the
							slave trade

						The Congress of Vienna marks the condemnation of one of the most atrocious practices
							which Europe had inherited from an indefinite past, namely, the slave trade.1 The congress itself did no more
							than declare the traffic contrary to the principles of civilization and human right;
							but, under the leadership of England, the various states, with the exception of Spain
							and Portugal, were busy in doing away with the trade in human beings. The horrors of
							the business had roused the conscience of the more enlightened and humane Englishmen
							and Frenchmen in the eighteenth century. Finally, in March, 1807, three weeks after
							the Congress of the United States had forbidden the importation of slaves,2 Parliament prohibited Englishmen
							from engaging in the traffic. Sweden followed England's example in 1813, and Holland a
							year later. Napoleon, on his return from Elba, in order to gain if possible the
							confidence of England, abolished the French slave trade.

						Disregard of nationality before the nineteenth century

						Napoleon had done more than alter the map of Europe and introduce such reforms in the
							countries under his control as suited his purposes; he had aroused the modern spirit
							of nationality, which is one of the forces that helped to make 1 The slave trade, which had prevailed
								among the Greeks, Romans, and other ancient peoples, had been greatly stimulated by
								the discovery that African slaves could be profitably used to cultivate the vast
								plantations of the New World. The English navigator, Hawkins, had carried a cargo of
								three hundred negroes from Sierra Leone to Hispania in 1562, and so introduced
								English seamen to a business in which Portugal, Spain, and Holland were already
								engaged. It is estimated that previous to 1776 at least three million slaves had
								been imported into French, Spanish, and English colonies, while at least a quarter
								of a million more had perished during the voyages.
							2 England abolished
								slavery throughout all her colonies in 1833.
							 the nineteenth century different from the eighteenth.
							Before the French Revolution kings went to war without consulting their subjects, and
							made arrangements with other monarchs in regard to the distribution, division, and
							annexation of territory without asking the consent of those who lived in the regions
							involved. Practically no attention was paid to differences in race, for kings gladly
							added to their realms any lands they could gain by conquest, negotiation, marriage, or
							inheritance, regardless of the particular kind of subjects that they might bring under
							their scepters.

						The French National Assembly declares the monarch responsible to the
							nation, and so awakens political life among the people

						However, the French Declaration of the Rights of Man in 1789 had proclaimed that the
							law was the expression of the general will, and that every citizen had a right,
							personally or through his representatives, to participate in its formation. The king
							and his officials were made responsible for their public acts not to God but to the
							people. This idea that the nation had a right to control the making of the laws and
							the granting of the taxes, and to choose or depose its ruler, who was responsible to
							it, served to rouse a general interest in political questions, which could not
							possibly have developed as long as people were content to believe that God had
							excluded them from all participation in affairs of State. Political leaders appeared,
							the newspapers began to discuss public questions, and political societies were
							formed.

						The awakening of nationalism

						The various nations became more and more keenly conscious that each had its own
							language and traditions which made it different from other peoples. Patriotic orators
							in Germany, Italy, and Greece recalled the glorious past of the ancient Germans,
							Romans, and Hellenes, with a view to stimulating this enthusiasm. National feeling may
							be defined as a general recognition that a people should have a government suited to
							its particular traditions and needs, and should be ruled by its own native officials,
							and that (if nations were entitled to political rights, as the French Revolution had
							taught) it is wrong for one people to dominate another, or for monarchs to divide  up, redistribute, and transfer territories with no regard
							to the wishes of the inhabitants, merely to provide some landless prince with a
							patrimony.

						We shall have to reckon hereafter with this national spirit, which continued to
							spread and to increase in strength during the nineteenth century. It has played a
							great part in the unification of Italy and Germany, in the emancipation of Greece and
							the Balkan states from Turkish dominion, and in the problems which have faced Austria,
							with its heterogeneous population.
					

					

						THE HOLY ALLIANCE: METTERNICH BECOMES THE CHIEF OPPONENT OF REVOLUTION

						Horror of revolution and suspicion of reform after 1815

						33. In June, 1815, the Congress of Vienna brought together the
							results of all the treaties and arrangements which its various members had agreed upon
							among themselves, and issued its "Final Act," in which its work was summed up for
							convenient reference.1 A few
							days later the battle of Waterloo and the subsequent exile of Napoleon freed the
							powers from their chief cause of solicitude during the past fifteen years. No wonder
							that the restored monarchs, as they composed themselves upon their thrones and
							reviewed the wars and turmoil which had begun with the French Revolution and lasted
							more than a quarter of a century, longed for peace at any cost, and viewed with the
							utmost suspicion any individual or party who ventured to suggest further changes. The
							word "revolution" had acquired a hideous sound, not only to the rulers and their
							immediate advisers, but to all the aristocratic class and the clergy, who thought that
							they had reason enough to abhor the modern tendencies as they had seen them at
							work.

						The Holy Alliance devised by Alexander I (September, 1815)

						It was clear that the powers which had combined to reestablish order must continue
							their alliance if they hoped to maintain the arrangements they had made and stifle the
							fires of revolution which were sure to break out at some unexpected point 1 The chief
									provisions are given in the Readings, Vol. I, p.
								381.
							 unless the most constant vigilance was exercised.
							Alexander I proposed a plan for preserving European tranquillity by the formation of a
							religious brotherhood of monarchs, which was given the name of "The Holy Alliance."
							This was accepted by the emperor of Austria and the king of Prussia, and published in
							September, 1815. In this singular instrument their majesties agreed to view one
							another as brothers and compatriots, as "delegates of Providence to govern three
							branches of the same family." All the other European powers which recognized the
							sacred principles of the act were to be welcomed cordially and affectionately into
							this "holy alliance."1

						The Holy Alliance not a union to prevent revolution

						The Tsar and Frederick William took the alliance seriously, but to most of the
							diplomats who had participated in the scramble for the spoils at Vienna, and who
							looked back upon the habits of monarchs in dealing with one another, it was an amusing
							vagary of the devout Tsar. It was not, as has often been supposed, a conspiracy of
							despotic monarchs to repress all liberal movements. It contained no definite allusions
							to the dangers of revolution or to the necessity of maintaining the settlement of
							Vienna. The name "Holy Alliance" came nevertheless to be applied by the more liberal
							newspapers and reformers to a real and effective organization of the powers opposed to
							change. In this case the monarchs did not unite in "the name of the Most High" to
							promote Christian charity, but frankly combined to fight reform under the worldly
							guidance of Clement Wencelaus Nepomuk Lothaire, Prince of
							Metternich-Winneburg-Ochsenhausen.

						Metternich's political creed

						Metternich, who was destined to succeed Napoleon as the most conspicuous statesman in
							Europe, was born in 1773 and had followed the course of the French Revolution from the
							beginning, with hatred and alarm. All talk about constitutions and national unity was
							to him revolutionary, and therefore highly dangerous.2

						1 See the text of this
							interesting document in the Readings, Vol. I, p. 384.

						2 For Metternich's views on
							politics, see Readings, Vol. I, p. 386.

						

						Any development of the spirit of nationality dangerous to
							Austria

						He was doubtless much strengthened in his hostility to reform by the situation of
							Austria,. whose affairs he had been guiding since 1809. No country, except Prussia,
							had suffered more from the Revolution, which it had been the first to oppose in 1792.
							Should the idea of nationality gain ground, the various peoples included in the
							Austrian Empire-- Germans, Czechs, Poles, Hungarians, Italians, and the rest-- would
							surely revolt and each demand its own constitution. Liberal ideas, whether in Austria,
							Italy, or Germany, foreboded the destruction of the highly artificial Austrian realms,
							which had been accumulated through the centuries by conquest, marriage, and
							inheritance, without regard to the great differences between the races which were
							gathered together under the scepter of Francis I. Consequently, to Metternich the
							preservation of Austria, the suppression of reformers and of agitators for
							constitutional government, and "the tranquillity of Europe," all meant one and the
							same thing.

						Secret alliance of November 20, 1815

						On November 20, 1815, Austria, Prussia, England, and Russia entered a secret
							agreement to keep peace in Europe. In order to effect their ends the powers agreed to
							hold periodical meetings with a view to considering their common interests and taking
							such measures as might be expedient for the preservation of general order. Thus a sort
							of international congress was established for the purpose of upholding the settlement
							of Vienna.

						Congress of Aix-la-Chapelle, 1818

						The first formal meeting of the powers under this agreement took place at
							Aix-la-Chapelle in 1818, to arrange for the evacuation of France by the troops of the
							allies, which had been stationed there since 1814 to suppress any possible disorder.
							France, once more admitted to the brotherhood of nations, joined Metternich's
							conservative league, and that judicious statesman could report with complacency that
							the whole conference was a brilliant triumph for those principles which he held
							dearest.

						Main changes in the map of Europe since the Congress of Vienna

						A glance at the map of Europe to-day will make plain that the Congress of Vienna
							failed to fix forever the metes and bounds,  and the
							system of government, of the European countries. Metternich's flimsy union of German
							states has given way to the German Empire. Prussia, Austria's old rival, has evidently
							grown at the expense of its neighbors, as several of the lesser German states of
							1815-- Hanover, Nassau, and Hesse-Cassel-- no longer appear on the map, and
							Schleswig-Holstein, which then belonged to Denmark, is now Prussian. It will be noted
							that the present German Empire does not include any part of the Austrian countries, as
							did the confederation of 1815, and that, on the other hand, Prussia is its dominant
							member. The kingdom of Poland has become an integral part of the Russian dominions.
							Austria, excluded from the German union, has entered into a dual union with Hungary,
							in which the two countries are placed upon a footing of equality.

						There was no kingdom in Italy in 1815. Now Austria has lost all hold on Lombardy and
							Venetia, and all the little Italian states reestablished by the Congress of Vienna,
							including the Papal States, have disappeared. A new kingdom, Belgium, has been created
							out of the old Austrian Netherlands which the Congress gave to the king of Holland.
							France, now a republic again, has recovered Savoy but has lost all her possessions on
							the Rhine by the cession of Alsace and Lorraine to the German Empire. Lastly, Turkey
							in Europe has nearly disappeared, and several new states-- Greece, Servia, Roumania,
							and Bulgaria-- have appeared in southeastern Europe.

						Changes in governments and industries

						Even more important, for the common people, than the changes in the map has been the
							revolution in the governments, laws, and industries of the several countries.
							Everywhere except in Russia absolute monarchies have been supplanted by some form of
							constitutional government, more or less democratic. Workingmen and peasants, who were
							generally excluded from the right to vote in 1815, have now been enfranchised in
							western Europe. The industrial revolution, brought about by the steam engine,
							machinery, and railways, has changed all of the old ways of living, traveling, and
							working. Laws and  policies which were utterly abhorrent
							to Metternich and his fellow-statesmen are now accepted commonplaces throughout
							Europe.

						It is the purpose of the following chapters to show how the great changes indicated
							on the map took place, and to explain the accompanying internal, changes, in so far as
							they represent the general trend of modern development, or have an importance for
							Europe at large.
					

					
						REFERENCES
								The Congress of Vienna:
									Cambridge Modern History, Vol. IX, chap. xix, pp. 576-588; FYFFE, History of Modern Europe, pp. 380-382;
										SEIGNOBOS, Political History of Europe since
										1814, pp. 2-3 ; ANDREWS, Historical
										Development of Modern Europe, Vol. I, pp. 90-93; HAZEN,
									Europe since 1815, pp. 1-22.
								The Polish-Saxon Controversy:
									Cambridge Modern History, Vol. IX, chap. xix, pp. 593-599; ANDREWS, Vol. I, pp. 93-97; FYFFE, pp.
									381-387.
								The Territorial Settlement in Italy:
									Cambridge Modern History, Vol. IX, chap. xix, pp.
									601-604.
								The Final Act of the Vienna Congress:
									Cambridge Modern History, Vol. IX, chap. xxi, pp.
									646-663.
								Union among the Powers to maintain the Vienna Settlement:
									Cambridge Modern History, Vol. IX, chap. xxi, pp. 663-671; FYFFE, pp. 408-411.
					
				

				
					

					CHAPTER XI
						EUROPE AFTER THE CONGRESS OF VIENNA

					

						THE RESTORATION IN FRANCE AND THE REVOLUTION OF 1830

						The French do not oppose the restoration of the Bourbons in
							1814

						34. When, in 1792, the Austrian and Prussian armies had advanced
							toward Paris with the object of freeing Louis XVI from the restrictions placed upon
							him by the National Assembly, the French, roused to fury, had deposed and executed
							their ruler, who was convicted of plotting with foreign powers to maintain his
							authority. In 1814 the allies placed on the throne the brother of Louis XVI, a veteran
							émigré, who had openly derided the Revolution and had been intriguing with other
							European powers for nearly twenty years to gain the French crown. Yet there was no
							organized opposition to the new king. The French were still monarchical at heart.

						Louis XVIII is not tempted to undo the work of Napoleon and the
							Revolution

						There was, however, no danger that Louis XVIII would undo the great work of the
							Revolution and of Napoleon. He was no fanatic like his younger brother, the count of
							Artois. In his youth he had delighted in Voltaire and the writings of the
							philosophers; he had little sympathy for the Church party. His sixty years, his
							corpulence, his gout, and a saving sense of humor prevented him from undertaking any
							wild schemes for restoring the old regime which might be suggested to him by the
							emigrant nobles, who now returned to France in great numbers.

						The Constitutional Charter granted to France by Louis XVIII, June,
							1814

						The Constitutional Charter which he issued in June, 1814, was indeed a much more
							liberal form of government than that which Napoleon had permitted the French to enjoy,
							and suggested in some ways the English constitution.1 The power of 1 The leading provisions of the Charter are to be found in the
									Readings, Vol. II, p. 2.
							 making laws was vested in the king and a parliament
							consisting of two chambers,-- a house of peers chosen by the king, and a chamber of
							deputies elected by the wealthier citizens. The king alone could propose laws, but the
							chambers were empowered to petition the sovereign to lay before them any specific
							measure which they thought desirable.

						Some of the "Rights of Man" guaranteed by the charter

						In addition to establishing representative government, the Charter guaranteed almost
							all the great principles of reform laid down in the first Declaration of the Rights of
							Man. It proclaimed that all men were equal before the law and equally eligible to
							offices in the government and the army; taxation was to be apportioned according to
							the wealth of each citizen; personal and religious liberty was assured, although the
							Roman Catholic faith was to be the religion of the State; freedom of the press was
							guaranteed, but subject to such laws as might be passed for the purpose of checking
							the abuses of that freedom.

						The origin of parties

						In view of what France had suffered it might have been supposed that the moderation
							of the restored monarch and his enlightened measures would have pacified the
							distracted kingdom; but the granting of a constitution could not bring back that quiet
							submission to the royal will which had existed in the days of Louis XV. The interest
							of the people in public questions had been aroused by the Revolution, and quite
							naturally they differed among themselves on current issues, such as the amount of
							power the king should really be permitted to exercise, the extension of the right to
							vote to the poorer classes, the authority of the clergy, the position of the ancient
							nobility, and the like. In this way political parties developed.

						The ultra-royalists led by the count or Artois

						The reactionary group, known as the ultra-royalists, was composed largely of emigrant
							nobles and clergy, who wished to undo the work of the past twenty-five years and to
							restore the old régime in its entirety. They clamored for greater power for the
							clergy, for the restriction of the liberal press, for the king's absolute control over
							his ministers, and for the restoration of the property that they had lost during the
							Revolution. This party,  though small in numbers, was
							composed of zealots, and with the king's brother, the count of Artois, at their head,
							they constituted an active and influential minority.

						The moderate royalists

						The most valuable and effective support for the king, however, came from a more
							moderate group of royalists who had learned something during the last quarter of a
							century. They knew that the age of Louis XVI and Marie Antoinette could not return,
							and consequently they urged the faithful observance of the Charter, and sought, on the
							one hand, to induce the reactionary nobility and clergy to accept the results of the
							Revolution, and, on the other hand, to reconcile the people to the restored monarchy.
							The two royalist parties-- extreme and moderate-- doubtless made up the greater
							portion of the nation.

						The liberals

						A third party was composed of liberals, who, though loyal to the king, did not regard
							the Charter as containing the last word on French liberties. They favored a reduction
							of the amount of property which a man was required to own in order to vote, and they
							maintained that the king should be guided by ministers responsible to the
							chambers.

						The irreconcilables
						The Bonapartists

						Finally, there was a large group of persons who were irreconcilable enemies of the
							Bourbons and everything savoring of Bourbonism. Among them were the Bonapartists,
							soldiers of Napoleon, who remembered the glories of Austerlitz and Wagram and were
							angered by the prestige suddenly given to hundreds of Frenchmen who had borne arms
							against their country, but who now crowded around the king to receive offices,
							rewards, and honors.1 While
							Napoleon lived they longed for his return, and after his death in 1821, they placed
							their hopes upon his youthful son,2 "Napoleon II," as they called him.

						1 See Readings, Vol. II, p. 6.

						2 The son of Napoleon and
							Maria Louisa, born in 1811, to whom his father gave the title King of Rome, was taken
							to Vienna after Napoleon's overthrow, and given the title of Duke of Reichstadt. He
							lived at his grandfather's court until his death in 1832, and is the hero of Rostand's
							popular drama, L'Aiglon (The Eaglet).

						

						The republicans

						On the other hand, there were the republicans, who detested Bonapartism no less than
							Bourbonism and wished to restore the republic of 1792.

						Views of Charles X (1824-1830)

						As long as Louis XVIII lived, the party loyal to him grew stronger, and at the time
							of his death in 1824 the restored Bourbon line seemed to have triumphed completely
							over its enemies. Had his brother, who succeeded him as Charles X, been equally wise,
							he too might have retained the throne until his death. But he frankly declared that he
							would rather chop wood than be king on the same terms as the king of England. During
							the early years of his reign the clergy and Jesuits exercised a great deal of
							influence upon the policy of the government, and the nobles, who had been deprived of
							their lands during the Revolution, were granted a thousand million francs by way of
							indemnity.

						The July ordinances, July 25, 1830

						As might have been anticipated, Charles's policy aroused violent antagonism. But he
							did not heed the warnings, and in July, 1830, determined upon a bold stroke. Acting
							under a provision of the Charter which empowered him to make regulations for the
							security of the realm, he and his ministers issued a series of ordinances establishing
							press censorship, increasing the property qualifications for voters, and confining the
							initiation of laws to the king.1 These ordinances practically destroyed the last vestiges of constitutional
							government and left the French people without any guarantee against absolutism.

						The protests of the journalists

						The day following the promulgation of the ordinances, July 26, 1830, the Paris
							journalists published a protest, which became the signal for open resistance to the
							king. They declared that they would issue their papers in spite of the king, and that
							all citizens were absolved from their allegiance by this attack on their rights.

						The republicans start an insurrection in Paris, July 27

						The revolt, however, which brought about the overthrow of Charles X was the work of
							the fearless though small republican party which faithfully cherished the traditions
							of 1792. On July 27 they began tearing up the paving stones for barricades, 1.See the
									ordinance against the press, in the Readings, Vol. II, p.
									11.
							 behind which they could defend themselves in the narrow
							streets against the police and soldiers.

						A new candidate for the throne appears

						On July 29 the entire city of Paris was in the hands of the insurgents. The king, now
							realizing the seriousness of the situation, opened negotiations with the deputies and
							promised to repeal the obnoxious ordinances. It was, however, too late for
							concessions; a faction of wealthy bankers and business men was busily engaged in an
							intrigue to place upon the throne Louis Philippe, the son of that duke of Orleans who
							had supported the popular cause in the early days of the first revolution and had
							finally been executed as a "suspect" during the Reign of Terror. The son had been
							identified with the Jacobins and had fought in the army of the republic at Valmy and
							Jemappes. He was later exiled, and spent some time in England. When he returned to
							France after the restoration he sought popular favor by professing democratic
							opinions, affecting the airs of a plain citizen, and sending his children to ordinary
							schools instead of employing private tutors. He was therefore the logical candidate of
							those who wished to preserve the monarchy and yet establish the middle class in power
							in place of the nobles and clergy.

						Charles X abdicates; Louis Philippe appointed lietenant
							general

						Charles X, despairing of his ability to retain the crown for himself, abdicated in
							favor of his grandson, the duke of Bordeaux. He then charged Louis Philippe with the
							task of proclaiming the young duke as King Henry V, and fled with his family to
							England. Though this arrangement might very well have met the approval of the nation
							at large, Louis Philippe was not inclined to execute the order of Charles X. On the
							contrary, he began to seek the favor of the republicans who had done the actual
							fighting and had already formed a provisional government with the aged Lafayette at
							its head.

						This committee occupied the City Hall and was surrounded by the insurgents who
							supported it. Louis Philippe forced his way through the throng and, in a conference
							with Lafayette, won him over to his cause by fair promises. The two men then went out
							on the balcony and Lafayette embraced his companion before  the crowd as a sign of their good understanding, while the duke on his
							part showed his sympathy for liberal doctrines by waving the tricolored flag,-- the
							banner of the Revolution,-- which had not been unfurled in Paris since the last days
							of Napoleon. The hopes of the republicans who had borne the brunt of the Revolution
							were now at an end, for they realized that they formed too small a party to prevent
							Louis Philippe's accession to the throne.

						
							THE BOURBON KINGS

							Henry IV (the first of the Bourbon line, died
								1610)

							Louis XIII (d. 1643)

							Louis XIV (d. 1715) Philip, duke of Orleans (d. 1701)

							Louis XV (d. 1774) great-grandson of Louis XIV Philip the Regend
									(d. 1722)

							Louis the Dauphin (d. 1765) Louis (d. 1732)

							Louis Philippe (d. 1783>

							Louis XVI (d. 1793)Louis XVIII (d. 1824) count of Provence
									Charles X deposed 1830) count of Artois
								Philippe (Egalité) (d. 1793)

							Louis XVII (d. 1795) Louis Philippe I (deposed 1848)
							Louis duke of Angouléme (d. 1844)Charles duke of Berri (d.
									1820)

							Duke of Orleans (d. 1842)

							(Duke of Bordeaux later count of Chambord)"Henry V" (d. 1883) Count of Paris (d. 1894)
						

						The Chamber of Deputies calls Louis Philippe to the throne

						Louis Philippe convoked the Chamber of Deputies on August 3 and announced the
							abdication of Charles X, carefully omitting any allusion to the fact that the
							dethroned king had indicated his grandson as his successor. Four days later the
							Chamber of Deputies passed a resolution-- which was ratified by the Chamber of Peers--
							calling Louis Philippe to the throne as  king of the
							French; he accepted their invitation, declaring that "he could not resist the call of
							his country."

						The Charter is revised

						The parliament undertook to make the necessary changes in the existing Charter which
							Louis XVIII had granted, and required the new king to accept it before his coronation.
							The preamble of the Charter was suppressed because it wounded "national dignity in
							appearing to grant to Frenchmen the rights which essentially
							belonged to them." The clause under which the July ordinances were issued was altered
							so that the king had no power to suspend the laws. Freedom of the press and the
							responsibility of the ministers to the Legislative Assembly were expressly proclaimed.
							Lastly, the provision establishing the Roman Catholic religion as the religion of the
							State was stricken out.

						The slight results of the revolution

						In reality, however, the Revolution of 1830 made few innovations. One king had been
							exchanged for another who professed more liberal views, but the government was no more
							democratic than before. The right to vote was still limited to the few wealthy
							taxpayers, and government by clergy and nobility had given place to government by
							bankers, speculators, manufacturers, and merchants. The tricolored flag of the
							Revolution was adopted as the national flag, instead of the white banner of the
							Bourbons, but France was still a monarchy, and the labors of the republicans in
							organizing the insurrection had gone for naught.
					

					

						ESTABLISHMENT OF THE KINGDOM
								OF BELGIUM

						Grievance of the Belgians against the Dutch government
						Religious dissensions arise between Protestants and Catholics

						35. The Revolution of 1830 in France was the signal for an outbreak
							in the former Austrian Netherlands, where many grievances had developed since the
							Congress of Vienna united the region with the Dutch Netherlands under the rule of
							William of Orange. In the first place, the inhabitants of his southern provinces were
							dissatisfied with William's government. He had granted a constitution to his entire
							kingdom on the model of the French Charter, but many people objected to his making the
								 ministers responsible to himself instead of to the
							parliament, and also to the restricted suffrage which excluded all but the well-to-do
							from the right to vote. Although the southern provinces had over a million more
							inhabitants than the Dutch portion of the kingdom, they had only an equal number of
							representatives. Moreover the Dutch monopolized most of the offices and conducted the
							government in their own interests. There were religious difficulties too. The southern
							provinces were Catholic, the northern mainly Protestant. The king was a Protestant,
							and took advantage of his position to convert Catholics to his own faith.1

						The independent kingdom of Belgium is established

						Louis Philippe had been seated on his throne only a few days when the agitation over
							these grievances broke out into open revolt at Brussels. The revolution spread; a
							provisional government was set up; and on October 4, 1830, it declared: "The province
							of Belgium, detached from Holland by force, shall constitute an independent state."
							The declaration was soon followed by. the meeting of a congress to establish a
							permanent form of government. This assembly drew up a constitution based on the idea
							of the sovereignty of the people, and decided that the head of the new government
							should be a king constrained by oath to observe the laws adopted by the people. The
							Belgians were therefore very much in the same position as the English in i688 when
							they made William of Orange their king on their own terms. They finally chose as their
							sovereign Leopold of Coburg, and in July, 1831, he was crowned king of the new
								state.2

						1 For the Belgians'
							statement of their grievances, see Readings, Vol. II, p. 14.

						2 The constitution which
							the Belgians drew up for themselves in 1831, with some modifications, is the basis of
							their government to-day, and Leopold II, the son of their first king, Leopold I, was
							their sovereign until 1909, when he was succeeded by his nephew, King Albert. The loss
							of Belgium made no important change in the government of the Netherlands. In 1848 King
							William II was forced to grant his subjects a new and enlightened constitution in
							place of the charter which he had issued some thirty years before. On the death of
							William III in 1890 his daughter, Wilhelmina, came to the throne, and as the grand
							duchy of Luxemburg was hereditary only in the male line it passed to a relative of the
							deceased king, the duke of Nassau. See Seignobos, Political History of
								Europe since 1814, pp. 238-255.
					

					
					
						FORMATION OF THE GERMAN CONFEDERATION

						Three chief results of Napoleon's influence in Germany
						1. Disappearance of most of the little states

						36. The chief effects of the Napoleonic occupation of Germany were
							three in number. First, the consolidation of territory that followed the cession of
							the left bank of the Rhine to France, as explained previously, had done away with the
							ecclesiastical states, the territories of the knights, and most of the free towns.
							Only thirty-eight German states, including four free towns, were left when the
							Congress of Vienna took up the question of forming a confederation to replace the
							defunct Holy Roman Empire.1

						2. Advantageous position of Prussia

						Secondly, the external and internal conditions of Prussia had been so changed as to
							open the way for it to replace Austria as the controlling power in Germany. A great
							part of the Slavic possessions gained in the last two partitions of Poland had been
							lost, but as an indemnity Prussia had received half of the kingdom of Saxony, in the
							very center of Germany, and also the Rhine provinces, where the people were thoroughly
							imbued with the revolutionary doctrines that had prevailed in France. Prussia now
							embraced all the various types of people included in the German nation and was
							comparatively free from the presence of non-German races. In this respect it offered a
							marked contrast to the heterogeneous and mongrel population of its great rival,
							Austria.

						The internal changes in Prussia were no less remarkable. The reforms carried out
							after Jena by the distinguished minister Stein and his successor, Hardenberg, had done
							for Prussia somewhat the same service that the first National Assembly had done for
							France. The abolition of the feudal social castes and the liberation of the serfs made
							the economic development of the country possible. The reorganization of the whole
							military system prepared the way for Prussia's great victories in 1866 and 1870, which
							led to the formation of a new German Empire under her headship.

						1 The leading provisions of
							the Act of Confederation are given in the Readings, Vol. II, pp. 16
							ff.

						

						3. Demand for constitutional government

						Thirdly, the agitations of the Napoleonic period had aroused the national spirit.1 The appeal to the people to aid
							in freeing their country from foreign oppression, and the idea of their participation
							in a government based upon a written constitution, had produced widespread discontent
							with the old absolute monarchy.

						The German Confederation of 1815

						When the form of union for the German states came up for discussion at the Congress
							of Vienna, two different plans were advocated. Prussia's representatives submitted a
							scheme for a firm union, in some respects like that of the United States, in which the
							central government should control the individual states in all matters of general
							interest. This idea was successfully opposed by Metternich, supported by the other
							German rulers. Austria realized that her possessions, as a whole, could never be
							included in any real German union, for even in the western portion of her territory
							there were many Slavs, while in Hungary and the southern provinces there were
							practically no Germans at all. On the other hand, she felt that she might be the
							leader in a very loose union in which all the members should be left practically
							independent. Her ideal of a union of sovereign princes under her own headship was
							almost completely realized in the constitution adopted.

						The German Confederation a union of rulers and free towns

						The confederation was not a union of the various countries
							involved, but of "The Sovereign Princes and Free Towns of Germany," including the
							emperor of Austria and the king of Prussia for such of their possessions as were
							formerly included in the German Empire; the king of Denmark for Holstein; and the king
							of the Netherlands for the grand duchy of Luxemburg. The union thus included two
							sovereigns who were out-and-out foreigners, and, on the other hand, did not include
							all the possessions of its two most important members.2

						The insignificant diet at Frankfort

						The assembly of the confederation was a diet which met at Frankfort. It was composed
							(as was perfectly logical) not of 1 See above, p. 235.
							2 Observe the boundary of
								the German Confederation as indicated on the map, pp. 232-233.
							 representatives of the people, but of plenipotentiaries
							of the rulers who were members of the confederation. The diet had very slight powers,
							for it could not interfere in the domestic affairs of the states, and the delegates
							who composed it could not vote as they pleased, since they had to obey the
							instructions of the rulers who appointed them, and refer all important questions to
							their respective sovereigns. So powerless and so dilatory was this assembly that it
							became the laughingstock of Europe.

						Weakness of the German Union

						The members of the confederation reserved to themselves the right of forming
							alliances of all kinds, but pledged themselves to make no agreement prejudicial to the
							safety of the union or of any of its members, and not to make war upon any member of
							the confederation on any pretense whatsoever. The constitution could not be amended
							without the approval of all the governments concerned. In spite of
							its obvious weaknesses, the confederation of 1815 lasted for half a century, until
							Prussia finally expelled Austria from the union by arms, and began the formation of
							the present German federation.

						Political associations of German students

						The liberal and progressive party in Germany was sadly disappointed by the failure of
							the Congress of Vienna to weld Germany into a really national state. The university
							students denounced the reactionary party in their meetings, and drank to the freedom
							of Germany. On October i8, 1817, they held a celebration in the Wartburg to
							commemorate both Luther's revolt and the anniversary of the battle of Leipzig.
							Speeches were made in honor of the brave who had fallen in the war of independence,
							and of the grand duke of Weimar, who was the first of the North German princes to give
							his people a constitution.

						The murder of Kotzebue

						This innocent burst of enthusiasm excited great apprehension in the minds of the
							conservative statesmen of Europe, of whom Metternich was, of course, the leader. The
							murder by Sand, a fanatical student, of a journalist, Kotzebue, who was supposed to
							have influenced the Tsar to desert his former  liberal
							policy, cast further discredit upon the liberal party. It also gave Metternich an
							opportunity to emphasize the terrible results which he anticipated would come from the
							students' associations, liberal governments, and the freedom of the press.

						The "Carlsbad Resolution," 1819

						Metternich called together the representatives of the larger states of the
							confederation at Carlsbad in August, 1819. Here a series of resolutions were drawn up
							with the aim of checking the free expression of opinions in newspapers and
							universities hostile to existing institutions, and of discovering and bringing to
							justice the revolutionists who were supposed to exist in dangerous numbers. These
							"Carlsbad Resolutions" were laid before the diet of the confederation by Austria and
							adopted, though not without protest.1

						The attack upon the freedom of the press, and especially the interference with the
							liberty of teaching in the great institutions of learning which were already becoming
							the home of the highest scholarship in the world, scandalized all the progressive
							spirits in Germany; yet no successful protest was raised, and Germany as a whole
							acquiesced for a generation in Metternich's system of discouraging reform of all
							kinds.

						The southern German states receive constitutions, 1818-1820
						Formation of customs union-- Zollverein-- with
							Prussia at its head

						Nevertheless, important progress was made in southern Germany. As early as 1818 the
							king of Bavaria granted his people a constitution in which he stated their rights and
							admitted them to a share in the government by establishing a parliament. His example
							was followed within two years by the rulers of Baden, Würtemberg, and Hesse. Another
							change for the better was the gradual formation of a customs union, which permitted
							goods to be sent freely from one German state to another without the payment of duties
							at each boundary line. This yielded some of the advantages of a political union. This
							economic confederation, of which Prussia was the head and from which Austria was
							excluded, was a harbinger of the future German Empire.

						1 See Readings, Vol. II, p. 20, for the "Carlsbad
							Resolutions."
					

					

					
						RESTORATION IN SPAIN AND ITALY

						State of Spain under Joseph Bonaparte

						37. The restoration in Spain after Napoleon's downfall was more
							thoroughgoing than in any other country involved in the revolutionary conflicts.
							Napoleon's efforts to keep his brother Joseph on the Spanish throne had led to a war
							which brought misery and demoralization upon the country until the autumn of 1812,
							when Wellington drove the invaders beyond the Pyrenees. During this entire period the
							Spanish people steadily resisted French dominion and maintained the semblance of an
							independent government.

						The Cortes or parliament was loyal to the dethroned Bourbon, Ferdinand VII, but it
							took advantage of his absence to draw up a liberal constitution in 1812.

						Ferdinand VII abolishes the constitution

						When Ferdinand VII (who had spent the previous six years in France surrounded by
							Napoleon's guards) was, in 1814, restored to power by the strength of English arms, he
							repudiated entirely this liberal government. He declared that the Cortes which had
							drawn up this instrument had usurped his rights by imposing on his people "an
							anarchical and seditious constitution based on the democratic principles of the French
							Revolution." He accordingly annulled it and proclaimed those who continued to support
							it guilty of high treason and worthy of death.1 With the old absolute government, he restored the
							Inquisition, feudal privileges, and the religious orders. The Jesuits returned, the
							press was strictly censored, free speech repressed, monastic property returned to the
							former owners, and the liberals were imprisoned in large numbers or executed.

						Italy only "a geographical expression" after 1815

						The Congress of Vienna left Italy, as Metternich observed, merely "a geographical
							expression"; it had no political unity whatever. Lombardy and Venetia, in the northern
							part, were in the hands of Austria, while Parma, Modena, and Tuscany belonged to
							members of the Austrian family. In the south the considerable kingdom of Naples was
							ruled over by a branch of 1 This manifesto is printed in the Readings, Vol. II, p. 23.
							 the Spanish Bourbons. In the center, cutting the
							peninsula in twain, were the Papal States, which extended north to the Po. The
							presence of Austria, and the apparent impossibility of inducing the Pope to submit to
							any government but his own, seemed to preclude all hope of making Italy into a true
							nation.

						Reforms introduced in Italy during the Napoleonic occupation

						Although Napoleon had governed Italy despotically, he had introduced many important
							reforms. The vestiges of the feudal régime had vanished at his approach; he had
							established an orderly administration and had forwarded public improvements. But his
							unscrupulous use of Italy to advance his personal ambitions disappointed those who at
							first had received him with enthusiasm, and they came to look eagerly for his
							downfall.

						Abolition of reforms in Piedmont

						The king of Sardinia, Victor Emmanuel I, entered his capital of Turin on May 20,
							1814, amid great rejoicing, but immediately proceeded to destroy with a stroke of his
							pen all the reforms which the Revolution had accomplished in Piedmont during his
							absence. He gave back to the nobility their ancient feudal rights; he restored to the
							clergy their property, their courts, and their press censorship; religious freedom was
							suppressed.

						The clergy regurn to power in the Papal States

						The same policy was adopted in the States of the Church, where, in 1814, an edict was
							issued which swept away French legislation and restored the old order. In the zeal to
							destroy the work of the French, root and branch, vaccination and street lighting at
							Rome were abolished as revolutionary innovations.

						The Austrian possessions in Italy

						In Lombardy and Venetia, where Austrian sovereignty was established, the reforms
							instituted during the Napoleonic Period were practically nullified. In order to fasten
							securely their government on these provinces, the Austrians set up a public and secret
							police system, which constantly interfered with individual liberty in the most
							arbitrary fashion.

						Austrian influence in Italy

						In addition to his Lombardo-Venetian kingdom in the northern part of Italy, the
							Austrian emperor enjoyed a protectorate over Modena; by treaty the duke of Tuscany
							practically surrendered his duchy to him; Maria Louisa of Parma turned the
							administration of her domain over to his officers; and Ferdinand  of Naples was bound to him in a defensive and offensive alliance. In
							short, only Sardinia and the Papal States retained their freedom from "German"
							domination.

						The work of the French not entirely undone

						Though dismembered and subjected to a foreign yoke, the Italy of 1815 was not the
							Italy which Napoleon had found when he first entered it at the head of the French army
							in 1796. Despite the restoration, traces of the Revolution were everywhere apparent,
							not only in law and government but, above all, in the minds of men. National
							aspirations had been awakened which the Austrian police could not stamp out; Italians,
							high and low, came to know and appreciate French reforms at firsthand, though they
							might loathe the memory of Napoleon as a conqueror and a tyrant.
					

					

						THE SPANISH-AMERICAN COLONIES AND THE REVOLUTION
								OF 1820

						38. The very thoroughness with which Metternich's ideas were
							carried out in the Mediterranean states led to renewed attempts on the part of the
							liberals to abolish despotism. It was not, therefore, in Germany or France, as the
							allies had feared, but in Spain and then in Italy, that the spirit of revolution was
							first to reawaken.

						The Spanish colonies in North and South America begin to dream of
							independence

						Spain itself was, of course, but a small part of the vast Spanish empire, which
							included Mexico (and the regions to the northwest later acquired by the United
							States), Central America, and large portions of South America, besides her island
							possessions. The Spanish colonies had from the first been the victims of the selfish
							commercial policy of the mother country, which forced them to carry on all their trade
							with one or two favored Spanish ports. The enlightened despot, Charles III, had
							somewhat reduced the restrictions upon trade; as a result, the commerce of the Spanish
							dependencies increased nearly sevenfold from 1778 to 1788. The advantages of greater
							freedom and the success of the North American colonies in  throwing off the yoke of England both served to suggest ideas of independence;
							these suddenly developed into downright revolt when the news reached the colonies that
							Napoleon had placed his brother on the Spanish throne and proposed to control the
							Spanish commerce in his own interests.

						Revolt of the Spanish colonies, 1810-1815

						Beginning in 1810, the colonies of Mexico, New Granada (now Colombia), Venezuela,
							Peru, Buenos Ayres, and Chile, while they still professed to be loyal to Ferdinand
							VII, took their government into their own hands, drove out the former Spanish agents,
							and finally rejected Spanish rule altogether. At first the revolt was put down with
							great cruelty, but in 1817, under the leadership of Bolivar, Venezuela won its
							independence, and during the following five years the Spaniards lost New Granada,
							Peru, Ecuador, Chile, Mexico, and lastly (1825) Upper Peru, which was renamed Bolivia
							after its liberator.

						England opposes reconquest of the Spanish colonies

						Ever since his restoration Ferdinand VII had been sending thousands of men to die of
							fever and wounds in the vain attempt to subdue the insurgents. He had called upon the
							other powers to help him, on the ground that his colonies were guilty of the
							revolutionary crimes which it was to the interest of all the allied monarchs to aid in
							suppressing. He was disappointed however.

						Restoration of the constitution of 1812 in Spain, 1820

						At last, in January, 1820, the soldiers who were waiting in Cadiz to be sent to
							America, well aware of the sufferings of the regiments which had preceded them, were
							easily aroused to revolt by two adventurous officers. The revolutionists proclaimed
							the restoration of the constitution of 1812, which Ferdinand had abolished on his
							return. Their call was answered by the liberals in the larger towns, including Madrid,
							where a mob surrounded the palace (March 9), and forced the king to take the oath to
							the constitution.

						News of Spanish revolution reaches Italy

						News of the Spanish revolt spread quickly throughout Italy, where the spirit of
							insurrection had been at work among the secret societies which had everywhere been
							organized. By far the most noted of these was that of the Carbonari, i.e. charcoal  burners. Its objects were constitutional government and
							national independence and unity. When the Neapolitans heard that the king of Spain had
							been forced by an insurrection to accept a constitution, they made the first attempt
							on the part of the Italian people to gain constitutional liberty by compelling their
							king (July, 1820) to agree to accept this same Spanish constitution of 1812. The king,
							however, at once began to cast about for foreign assistance to suppress the revolution
							and enable him to return to his former ways.

						Metternich regards revolution as a terrible disease

						He had not long to wait. The alert Metternich invited Russia, Prussia, France, and
							England to unite, in order to check the development of "revolt and crime."
							"Revolution" appeared to him and his sympathizers as a fearful disease that not only
							destroyed those whom it attacked directly, but spread contagion wherever it appeared.
							Therefore prompt and severe measures of quarantine were justified, in view of the
							necessity of stamping out the devastating plague.

						The Laibach conference and Austrian intervention in Italy

						A conference was called at Laibach in January, 1821, for the purpose of taking
							practical measures to restore absolutism in southern Italy. To this conference King
							Ferdinand of Naples was summoned. After taking renewed oaths to maintain the
							constitution which he had granted his people, he started northward, but on the way to
							Laibach he repudiated his promises to his subjects, and at the conference heartily
							concurred in the plan to send an Austrian army to Naples to abolish the noxious
							constitution. The leaders of the revolt were executed, imprisoned, or exiled, and the
							king freed from the embarrassments of the constitution.

						The Congress of Verona, 1822
						France aids Ferdinand VII to suppress reform, 1823-1825

						Meanwhile the revolution in Spain had developed into a civil war, and the
							representatives of the great powers, Russia, Austria, Prussia, France, and England,
							met at Verona in 1822 to discuss their common interests and decide what should be done
							about the Spanish crisis.1
							England refused to interfere in any way; so finally it was left to Louis XVIII, urged
							on by the clerical 1 For
								the declaration of the powers at Verona, see Readings, Vol. II, p.
								38.
							 and ultra-royalist party, to send an army across the
							Pyrenees "with the purpose of maintaining a descendant of Henry IV on the throne of
							Spain." This interference in the affairs of a neighboring nation which was struggling
							for constitutional government disgusted the French liberals, who saw that France, in
							intervening in favor of Ferdinand VII, was doing just what Prussia and Austria had
							attempted in 1792 in the interests of Louis XVI. But, unlike the duke of Brunswick,
							the French commander easily defeated the revolutionists and placed Ferdinand in a
							position to stamp out his enemies in such a ferocious and bloodthirsty manner that his
							French allies were heartily ashamed of him.

						Question of the revolted Spanish colonies

						While France was helping to restore absolutism in Spain the Spanish colonies, as we
							have seen, were rapidly winning their independence, encouraged by the United States
							and England. At the Congress of Verona all the powers except England were anxious to
							discuss a plan by which they might aid Spain to get the better of her rebellious
							colonies, since it was the fixed purpose of the allies to suppress "rebellion in
							whatever place and under whatever form it might show itself."

						The Monroe Doctrine

						The threats of Metternich and his friends led President Monroe, in his message to
							Congress, December, 1823, to call attention to the dangers of intervention as
							practiced by the European alliance of great powers, and clearly state what has since
							become famous as the "Monroe Doctrine,"1 namely, that the United States would consider any attempt
							on the part of the European allies to extend their system to any portion of this
							hemisphere as dangerous to the peace and safety of the United States and as an
							unfriendly act.

						England recognizes independence of some Spanish colonies

						About the same time the English foreign secretary, Canning, informed the French
							ambassador in London that any attempt to bring the Spanish colonies again under their
							former submission to Spain would prove unsuccessful; and that while England 1 See Readings, Vol. II, p. 42, for an extract from President Monroe's famous
								message.
							 would remain neutral in the troubles between the mother
							country and her American dominions, the intervention of a third party would constitute
							cause for action on the part of the English government. Toward the close of 1824
							England recognized the independence of Buenos Ayres, Mexico, and Colombia, and paid no
							heed to the remonstrance of the continental powers that such an action "tended to
							encourage the revolutionary spirit which it had been found so difficult to restrain in
							Europe."

						Portugal

						A word may be said here of Spain's little neighbor Portugal. It will be remembered
							that when Napoleon dispatched his troops thither in 1807 the royal family fled across
							the Atlantic to their colony of Brazil. After the expulsion of the French by the
							English, the government was placed in the hands of an English general, Beresford, who
							ruled so despotically that he stirred up a revolt in 1820, at the time when the
							insurrection in Spain was in progress. The insurgents demanded the return of the royal
							family from Brazil and the granting of a constitution. The king, John VI, accordingly
							set sail for Portugal, leaving his elder son, Pedro, to represent him in Brazil.1

						Matternich's international police system fails

						It will have become apparent that Metternich's international police system, designed
							to prevent innovation and revolution, was for all practical purposes a failure. The
							action of Great Britain and the United States had weakened it. The struggle of the
							Greek revolutionists against Turkey for independence,2 which finally involved Russia in a war with the Sultan and
							ended in victory for the Greeks, demonstrated that even Russia would not hesitate to
							aid and abet revolution if she could thereby advance her own interests. The climax was
							reached in 1830 by the revolution in France described above, which deposed the older
							Bourbon line and established a liberal government, thus 1In 1822 Pedro proclaimed the independence of
								Brazil and took the title of Emperor. In 1831 he abdicated in favor of his son, who
								retained the crown until he was deposed by the revolution of 1889, which established
								the United States of Brazil as a republic.2 See below, p.
								455.
							 violating the fundamental principles for which
							Metternich had fought with so much determination. In fact, the Holy Alliance, as such,
							never accomplished any great work, and it went to pieces as much through its own
							inherent weakness as through the growth of revolutionary spirit.
					

					

						REFERENCES
								The Restoration in France:
									Cambridge Modern History, Vol. IX, chap. xviii, pp. 559-571;
										PHILLIPS, European History, 1815-1899, pp.
									22-36; ANDREWS, The Historical Development of
										Modern Europe, Vol. I, pp. 134-157; FYFFE, History of Modern Europe, pp. 375-380; SEIGNOBOS, Political History of Europe since 1815, pp. 103-121 ; HAZEN, Europe since 1815, pp. 66-99.
								The Revolution of 1830 in France:
									Cambridge Modern History, Vol. X, chap. iii, pp. 71-103; PHILLIPS, pp. 168-185; FYFFE, pp. 603-621; ANDREWS, Vol. I, pp. 157-179.
								The Revolution of 1830 in Belgium:
									Cambridge Modern History, Vol. X, chap. xvi, pp. 517-544; FYFFE, pp. 620-624; SEIGNOBOS, pp. 229-238;
									PHILLIPS, pp. 186-198.
								The German Confederation and Metternich's Policy: PHILLIPS, chap. iii, pp. 37-56; SEIGNOBOS,
									chap. xii, pp. 374-386; ANDREWS, Vol. I, chap. vi, pp. 229-241;
										Cambridge Modern History, Vol. X, chap. xi, pp. 340-382; HAZEN, pp. 23-44.
								Reestablishment of Absolutism in Italy:
									Cambridge Modern History, Vol. X, chap. iv, pp. 104-130; ANDREWS, Vol. I, chap. v, pp. 180-228; SEIGNOBOS, pp. 326-333 ; HAZEN, pp. 45-65.
								The Restoration and Revolution in Spain:
									Cambridge Modern History, Vol. X, chap. vii, pp. 205-233; FYFFE, pp. 478-485; SEIGNOBOS, pp.
									286-295.
								The Spanish-American Colonies:
									Cambridge Modern History, Vol. X, chaps. viii, ix, pp.
									244-309.
								Metternich and the European Congresses:
									Cambridge Modern History, Vol. X, chap. i, pp. 1-39; PHILLIPS, pp. 57-134; SEIGNOBOS, pp.
									747-762.
					
				

				

					

					CHAPTER XII
						THE INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION

					

						INVENTION OF MACHINERY FOR
								SPINNING AND WEAVING

						The Industrial Revolution due to mechanical inventions

						39. In the preceding chapters we have reviewed the startling
							changes and reforms introduced by the leaders of the French Revolution and by Napoleon
							Bonaparte, the reconstruction of Europe at the Congress of Vienna, and finally the
							chief modifications of these arrangements which occurred during the following
							generation. These were mainly the work of statesmen, warriors, and diplomats,-- who
							have certainly done their part in making Europe what it is to-day. But a still more
							fundamental revolution than that which has been described had begun in England before
							the meeting of the Estates General. The chief actors in this never stirred an assembly
							by their fiery denunciation of abuses, or led an army to victory, or conducted a
							clever diplomatic negotiation. On the contrary, their attention was concentrated upon
							the homely operations of everyday life,-- the housewife drawing out her thread with
							distaff or spinning wheel, the slow work of the weaver at his primitive loom, the
							miner struggling against the water which threatened to flood his mine. They busied
							themselves perseveringly with wheels, cylinders, bands, and rollers, patiently
							combining and recombining them, until, after many discouragements, they made
							discoveries destined to alter the habits, ideas, and prospects of the great mass of
							the people far more profoundly than all the edicts of the National Assembly and all
							the conquests of Napoleon taken together.

						Few new inventions added to the old stock before the eighteenth
							century

						The Greeks and Romans, notwithstanding their refined civilization, had shown slight
							aptitude for mechanical invention,  and little had been
							added to their stock of human appliances before the opening of the eighteenth
								century.1 In the time of
							Louis XIV, when inventors were already becoming somewhat numerous, especially in
							England, the people of western Europe for the most part continued to till their
							fields, weave their cloth, and saw and plane their boards by hand, much as the ancient
							Egyptians had done. Merchandise was still transported in slow, lumbering carts, and
							letters were as long in passing from London to Rome as in the reign of Constantine.
							Could a peasant, a smith, or a weaver of the age of Caesar Augustus have visited
							France or England eighteen hundred years later, he would have recognized the familiar
							flail, forge, and hand loom of his own day.

						Importance of the history of mechanical inventions

						Suddenly, however, a series of ingenious devices were invented, which in a few
							generations eclipsed the achievements of ages and revolutionized every branch of
							industry. These serve to explain the world in which we live, with its busy cities, its
							gigantic factories filled with complicated machinery, its commerce and vast fortunes,
							its trades unions and labor parties, its bewildering variety of plans for bettering
							the lot of the great mass of the people. The story of the substitution for the distaff
							of the marvelous spinning machine with its swiftly flying fingers, of the development
							of the locomotive and the ocean steamer which bind together the uttermost parts of the
							earth, of the perfecting press, producing a hundred thousand newspapers an hour, of
							the marvels of the telegraph and the telephone,-- this story of mechanical invention
							is in no way inferior in fascination and importance to the more familiar history of
							kings, parliaments, wars, treaties, and constitutions.

						1 Roger Bacon, in the
							thirteenth century (see above, p. 22), firmly
							believed that the lot of mankind could be greatly improved by mechanical inventions.
							In his century spectacles first began to be used, and in the fourteenth and fifteenth
							centuries gunpowder was introduced, the printing press invented, and a method
							discovered by which iron could be not merely softened, but melted so that it could be
							cast.

						

						The revolution in manufacture during the past two centuries may perhaps be best
							illustrated by the improvements in the methods of spinning and weaving wool and
							cotton, which are so important to our welfare and comfort. The main operations had
							remained essentially the same from the time when men first began to substitute coarse
							woven garments for the skins of animals, down to the eighteenth century.

						Old ways of spinning and weaving

						At the opening of that century spinning was done on the old-fashioned wheel such as
							one may find stowed away in his great-grandmother's attic. The loom used in Louis
							XIV's day was so crude that it required two men to operate it,-- one to push the
							shuttle part way through the weft, and the other to finish the stroke and start the
							shuttle on its return trip.

						The invention of the spinning jenny

						In 1738, however, there began a series of inventions which ended in the creation of
							automatic steam-driven machines and power looms. In that year John Kay, of Bury in
							Lancashire, England, invented the fly-shuttle, a contrivance which enabled the weaver,
							without any assistant, to drive the shuttle to and fro by means of a handle placed
							conveniently in front of his stool. One weaver could now do the work of two; and the
							spinners set about inventing a machine that would enable them to meet the new demand
							for thread. By 1767 James Hargreaves, a weaver of Blackburn, invented a spinning jenny
							which enabled a child, by turning a wheel, to spin eight or ten threads at one time,
							and thus do the work of eight or ten spinners.1 A year later a barber of Preston, Richard Arkwright,
							patented a device for spinning by rollers, and made a large fortune- for his time-- by
							establishing a great factory filled with power-driven machines. In 1779 Samuel
							Crompton, of Bolton in Lancashire, made a happy combination of Hargreaves's spinning
							jenny and Arkwright's roller machine, which was called the "mule." Before the end of
							the eighteenth century, machines spinning two hundred threads simultaneously had been
							invented, and as they 1
								For an account of inventions of Hargreaves, Crompton, and Cartwright, see Readings, Vol. II, pp. 45-53.
							 were driven by power and required only one or two
							watchers, the hand workers could by no means compete with them.

						The power loom and cotton gin

						The enormous output of thread and yarn on these new machines made the weavers
							dissatisfied with the clumsy old hand loom. At length, in 1784, Dr. Cartwright, a
							clergyman of Kent, patented a new and workable loom driven by power, which
							automatically threw the shuttle and shifted the weft. This machine was steadily
							improved until by the end of the nineteenth century a single machine watched by one
							workman could do as much weaving in a day as two hundred weavers could do with
							old-fashioned hand looms. Speedily following Dr. Cartwright's invention came a number
							of other improvements in the methods of manufacturing cloth. The time required for the
							process of bleaching was reduced from several months to a few days by the use of
							acids, instead of relying principally upon the sunlight. In 1792 Eli Whitney, in the
							United States, announced the invention of a power "gin," which enabled one man to
							clean over a thousand pounds of cotton a day instead of five or six pounds, which had
							been the limit for the hand worker.

						The effect of these inventions in increasing the amount of cloth manufactured was
							astonishing. In 1764 England imported only about four million pounds of raw cotton,
							but by 1841 she was using nearly five hundred million pounds annually. At the close of
							the Napoleonic wars Robert Owen, a distinguished manufacturer and philanthropist,
							declared that his two thousand workmen at New Lanarck could do as much work with the
							new machinery which had been invented during the past forty years as all the operators
							of Scotland could do without it.
					

					

						THE STEAM ENGINE

						Iron and power necessary of the development of machinery

						40. In order that inventions could further develop and become
							widely useful, two things were necessary: In the first place, there must be available
							a sufficiently strong material  out of which to
							construct the machinery, and for this purpose iron and steel have, with few
							exceptions, proved the most satisfactory. In the second place, some adequate power had
							to be found to propel the machinery, which is ordinarily too heavy to be run by hand
							or foot. Of course windmills were common, and waterfalls and running streams had long
							been used to turn water wheels, but these forces were too restricted and uncertain to
							suffice for the rapid development of machinery which resulted from the beginnings we
							have described. Consequently while Hargreaves, Arkwright, and Crompton were
							successfully solving the problem of new methods of spinning and weaving, other
							inventors were endeavoring to supply the material for making the machinery and to
							discover an adequate power to run it.

						Expansive power of steam observed by the ancients

						Iron and steel had, of course, been used for hundreds and even thousands of years for
							tools, weapons, and armor; and the expansive power of steam was known before the
							opening of the Christian era, but had not been put to any useful purpose. So, although
							the eighteenth-century inventors could base their new devices upon older discoveries,
							they were forced to find some means for greatly cheapening the production of iron and
							steel, and for applying steam to everyday uses.

						Watt improves the steam engine

						Contrary to popular impression, James Watt did not invent the steam engine.1 Important parts of the engine--
							the boiler, cylinder, and the piston-- had been invented before he was born, and crude
							engines had been employed for a long time in pumping water. Indeed, Watt's interest in
							the steam engine seems to have been awakened first during the winter of 1763-1764,
							when, as an instrument maker in the University of Glasgow, he was called upon to
							repair the model of a steam engine which had been invented by an ingenious mechanic
							named Newcomen. Watt, however, was a brilliant and industrious experimenter, and
							building upon the work of Newcomen 1 For a brief account of the life and works of Watt, see Readings, Vol. II, pp. 58-62.
							 and other men, he was able to make the steam engine a
							practical and relatively economical machine for furnishing power to the new factories.
							By a simple arrangement of a rod and crank he made it possible to drive a wheel which
							could be connected by a belt and furnish rotary motion. In 1785 the steam engine was
							first applied to run spinning machinery at a factory at Pappelwick in Nottinghamshire.
							Arkwright adopted it in 1790, and by the end of the century steam engines were as
							common as wind and water mills.

						Older method of working iron

						These inventions reacted powerfully on the iron industry, which had hitherto been
							relatively insignificant. The importance of this metal can scarcely be overestimated.
							Its qualities of durability, malleability, and strength, and the manifold uses to
							which it can be adapted make it the very foundation of all mechanical industry. Though
							it had been in use for ages before the day of Arkwright and Watt, it was still worked
							up in the crudest fashion. A huge pair of bellows, operated by hand or water power,
							was used to supply the blast required to melt the metal for casting; charcoal made
							from wood was used for fuel in the smelting furnace; and the metal was hammered out
							either by hand or by heavy iron blocks fixed on the ends of levers worked up and down
							by horse or water power.

						Smelting with coal; new methods of working and handling iron

						When the manufacturers of the new spinning machines began to demand more and better
							iron, the smiths at their forges turned their attention to the improvement of their
							crude tools. About 1750 the process of smelting by coal became available, and at once
							led to a rapid development of the industry. Ten years later the bellows were
							supplanted by Smeaton's cylinder blowing apparatus, and in 1790 the advantage of a
							steady and continuous blast was secured by the adoption of steam as a motor force.
							About the same time a great improvement was made in the machinery for handling heavy
							castings, and in the methods of changing cast or brittle iron into wrought or
							malleable iron.

						The Industrial Revolution in France

						Now it so happened that the Industrial Revolution took place first in England, for
							conditions there were peculiarly favorable  to the
							development of the peaceful arts of industry. Although England was the first country
							to develop the modern industrial system, it was impossible for her to prevent the
							gradual introduction of new inventions on the Continent. Napoleon had endeavored to
							foster and protect French industries and stimulate the employment of machinery in
							manufacturing; but in spite of his best efforts, French industry remained in a
							backward state. It was not until after the establishment of peace in 1815 that the
							Industrial Revolution really began in France. On the eve of Napoleon's downfall there
							was only one small steam engine employed in French industry-- at a cotton factory in
							Alsace; but by 1847 France had nearly five thousand steam engines with a capacity of
							sixty thousand horse power. The consumption of raw cotton was multiplied fivefold in
							thirty years, and in 1847 there were over one hundred thousand spinning machines with
							three and a half million spindles at work. During this period a corresponding
							development took place in the other staple branches of French manufacturing. On the
							eve of the revolution of 1848 France had many important manufacturing centers. Paris
							alone had three hundred and forty-two thousand working people, and other cities, such
							as Lyons, Marseilles, Lille, Bordeaux, and Toulouse, had their great factories and
							whole quarters peopled by factory laborers. And the working class had begun by that
							time to form unions and organize strikes against their employers for the purpose of
							increasing wages and reducing the hours of labor.
					

					
						CAPITALISM AND THE FACTORY
								SYSTEM

						The "domestic" system of industry

						41. Having seen how machinery was introduced into England in the
							latter part of the eighteenth century, and how steam came to be utilized as a motive
							power, we have now to consider the important results of these inventions in changing
							the conditions under which people lived and worked. Up to this time the term
							"manufacture" still meant, as it did in the original Latin (manun
								facere), "to make by hand." Artisans carried on trades  with their own tools in their own homes or in small shops, as the cobbler
							does to-day. Instead of working with hundreds of others in great factories and being
							entirely dependent upon his wages, the artisan, in England at least, was often able to
							give some attention to a small garden plot, from which he derived a part of his
							support. This "domestic system," as it is called, is graphically described by the
							journalist, Defoe, as he observed it in Yorkshire during a journey through England in
							1724-1726:

						Defoe's description of Yorkshire artisans about 1725

						 "The land was divided into small enclosures of from two acres
								to six or seven acres each, seldom more, every three or four pieces having a house
								belonging to them; hardly a house standing out of speaking distance from another. We
								could see at every house a tenter and on almost every tenter a piece of cloth, or
								kersie, or shalloon. At every considerable house there was a manufactory. Every
								clothier keeps one horse at least to carry his manufactures to market, and every one
								generally keeps a cow or two, or more, for his family. By this means the small
								pieces of enclosed land about each house are occupied, for they scarce sow corn
								[i.e. grain] enough to feed their poultry. The houses are full of lusty fellows,
								some at their dye vat, some at their looms, others dressing the cloth; the women and
								children carding or spinning, all being employed from the youngest to the
								eldest."

						Principle of "factory system"

						As the Industrial Revolution progressed, these hand workers found themselves unable
							to compete with the swift and tireless machines. Manufacturing on a small scale with
							the simple old tools and appliances became increasingly unprofitable. The workers had
							to leave their cottages and spend their days in great factories established by
							capitalists who had enough money to erect the huge buildings and install in them the
							elaborate and costly machinery and the engines to run it. As an English writer has
							concisely put it, "The typical unit of production is no longer a single family or
							group of persons working with a few cheap, simple tools upon small quantities of raw
							material, but a compact and closely organized mass of 
							labor composed of hundreds or thousands of individuals cooperating with large
							quantities of expensive and intricate machinery through which passes a continuous and
							mighty volume of raw material on its way to the consuming public."1

						Chief results of the introduction of machinery
						1. Division of labor

						One of the principal results of the factory system is that it makes possible a minute
							division of labor. Instead of giving his time and thought to the whole process, each
							worker concentrates his attention upon a single stage of it, and by repeating a simple
							set of motions over and over again acquires wonderful dexterity. At the same time the
							period of necessary apprenticeship is shortened, because each separate task is
							comparatively simple. Moreover the invention of new machinery is increased, because
							the very subdivision of the process into simple steps often suggests some way of
							substituting mechanical action for that of the human hand.

						2. Examples of the increased production of goods by machinery

						An example of the greatly increased output rendered possible by the use of machinery
							and the division of labor is given by the distinguished Scotch economist, Adam Smith,
							whose great work, The Wealth of Nations, appeared in 1776. Speaking
							of the manufacture of a pin in his own time, Adam Smith says: "To make the head
							requires two or three distinct operations; to put it on is a peculiar business, to
							whiten the pin is another. It is even a trade by itself to put them into the paper,
							and the important business of making a pin is, in this manner, divided into about
							eighteen distinct operations." By this division, he adds, ten persons can make upwards
							of forty-eight thousand pins in a day. This was when machinery was in its infancy. A
							recent writer reports that an English machine now makes one hundred and eighty pins a
							minute, cutting the wire, flattening the heads, sharpening the points, and dropping
							the pins into their proper places. In a single factory which he visited seven million
							pins were made in a day, and three men were all that were required to manage the
							mechanism.

						1 For an account of the way
							in which Arkwright founded the factory system, see Readings, Vol.
							III p. 63.

						

						Printing

						Another example of modern mechanical work is found in printing. For several centuries
							after Gutenberg printed his first book, the type was set by hand, inked by hand, each
							sheet of paper was laid by hand upon the type and then printed by means of a press
							operated by a hand lever. Nowadays our newspapers, in the great cities at least, are
							printed almost altogether by machinery, from the setting up of the type until they are
							dropped, complete, and counted out by hundreds, at the bottom of a rotary press. The
							paper is fed into the press from a great roll and is printed on both sides and folded
							at the rate of five hundred or more newspapers a minute.

						3. Growth of great manufacturing towns

						Before the coming of machinery industry was not concentrated in a few great cities,
							but was scattered more or less evenly over the country in the hands of small masters,
							or independent workmen, who combined manufacturing with agriculture on a small scale.
							For example, the metal workers of West Bromwich and the cutlers of Sheffield (already
							famous in Chaucer's day) lived in cottages with small plots of land around them, and
							in dull seasons, or to change their occupation, engaged in gardening. The factory
							system put an end to all this. The workmen now had to live near their work; long rows
							of houses, without gardens or even grass plots, were hastily built around the factory
							buildings, and thus the ugly tenement districts of our cities came into existence.

						4. Appearance of capitalist class

						This great revolution in the methods of manufacturing produced also a sharp
							distinction between two classes of men involved. There were, on the one hand, the
							capitalists who owned the buildings and all the mechanism, and, on the other, the
							workmen whom they hired to operate the machines. Previous to the eighteenth century
							those who owned large estates had been, on the whole, the most important class in
							political and social life. But, alongside of the landed aristocracy, a powerful
							mercantile class had arisen, whose wealth, gained by commerce and trade, gave them
							influence in the affairs of the  nation.1 With the improvements in
							machinery there was added the new class of modern capitalists, who amassed fortunes by
							establishing great manufacturing industries.2

						5. The workman becomes dependent upon the capitalist
						Problem of Labor vs. Capital

						The workingman necessarily became dependent upon the few who were rich enough to set
							up factories. He could no longer earn a livelihood in the old way by conducting a
							small shop to suit himself. The capitalist owned and controlled the necessary
							machinery, and so long as there were plenty of workmen seeking employment in order to
							earn their daily bread, the owner could fix a low wage and long hours. While an
							individual employee of special ability might himself become a capitalist, the ordinary
							workman would have to remain a workman. The question of the proportion of the product
							which should go to the workers, and that which may properly be taken by the
							capitalist, or manager, who makes a successful business possible, lies at the basis of
							the great problem of capital and labor.

						6. Women and children in the factories

						The destruction of the domestic system of industry had also a revolutionary effect
							upon the work and the lives of women and children. In all except the heaviest of the
							mechanical industries, such as iron working or ship building, the introduction of
							simple machines tended greatly to increase the number of women and children employed
							compared with the men. For example, in the textile industry in England during the
							fifty years from 1841 to 1891, the number of males employed increased fifty-three per
							cent, and the number of females two hundred and twenty-one per cent. Before the
							invention of the steam engine, when the simple machines were worked by hand, children
							could be employed only in some of the minor processes such as preparing the cotton for
							spinning. But in 1 See
								Defoe's description of eighteenth-century merchant princes, Readings, Vol. II, p. 67.
							2 The industrial
								capitalist began to appear even before the days of Arkwright and Watt, for there
								were employers earlier, who in some cases collected ten, twenty, or more looms in a
								town and employed workmen who had no tools of their own, thus creating something
								like the later factory system.
							 the modern factory labor is largely confined to
							watching machines, piecing broken threads, and working levers, so that both women and
							children can be utilized as effectively as men, and much more cheaply.

						The Industrial Revolution relieves some women of their former
							duties

						Doubtless the women were by no means idle under the old system of domestic industry,
							but their tasks were varied and performed at home, whereas under the new system they
							must flock to the factory at the call of the whistle, and labor monotonously at a
							speed set by the foreman. This led to many grave abuses which, as we shall see, the
							State has been called upon to remedy by factory legislation, which has served to save
							the women and children from some of the worst hardships, although a great deal still
							remains to be done. On the other hand, thousands of women belonging to the more
							fortunate classes have been relieved of many of the duties which devolved upon the
							housewife in the eighteenth century, when many things were made at home which can now
							be better and more cheaply produced on a large scale.

						7. Broadening effects of mechanical progress on the workingman

						Before the Industrial Revolution there had been no sudden change in the life and
							habits of the people, since the same tools had been used in the same way, often by the
							same family, from generation to generation. When invention began change began, and it
							seems likely to become more and more rapid, since new and better ways of doing things
							are discovered daily. Old methods give way to new ones, and the workman of to-day may
							successively engage in a considerable variety of occupations during his life as
							industries rise, are transformed, and decline under the stress of competition and
							invention. This serves to shake the workingman out of the old routine, encourages him
							to move from place to place as circumstances dictate, and so widens his experience and
							broadens his mind. He has also learned to combine with his fellows into national
							unions, and even international congresses of workingmen are held to consider their
							common interests and agree upon general policies to be pursued.

						

						8. Expansion of commerce

						To these changes still another may be added, i.e. the expansion of commerce. In spite
							of the development of trade before the eighteenth century, a great part of the goods
							produced was destined to be consumed in the neighborhood, whereas, after the invention
							of machinery, it became customary to manufacture goods to be sold in any part of the
							world; so that one would find the products of Manchester or Birmingham in Hong-kong,
							Melbourne, or Bulawayo. According to official estimates, the exports of England, which
							amounted to less than fourteen million pounds sterling in 1783, exceeded twenty-nine
							millions thirteen years later.

						9. Effect of the Industrial Revolution on governments and
							politics

						The Industrial Revolution, in addition to changing fundamentally the old methods of
							living, traveling, and working, gave an entirely new direction to European politics
							and to theories of government and industry. The two great classes created by the
							Industrial Revolution, namely, the middle class and the working class, each entered
							politics on its own account; and the struggle of these two groups against the feudal
							landlords and the clergy constitutes a very large portion of the political history of
							Europe during the nineteenth century. The contest of the manufacturers of Europe to
							win markets for their products in the four corners of the earth is largely responsible
							for the opening up of backward places in the Orient and Africa.

						The middle class

						The enterprising mill owners and merchants handling products naturally were
							discontented with the way in which feudal landlords and absolute monarchs monopolized,
							or attempted to monopolize, government. They also were dissatisfied with the attempts
							of governments to maintain many of the restrictions on industry and business
							enterprise which originated in the Middle Ages, and which only hampered the individual
							initiative of the man who wanted to run his business in his own way and sell his goods
							as he pleased.

						Political economy

						This middle class of manufacturers and traders developed a theory of government
							suited to their particular interests, which they called political economy. According
							to this theory of  government or political economy,
							which was formulated by Adam Smith and developed by Ricardo and other writers, the
							government should keep its hands off of industry. It should not attempt to regulate
							prices of goods or pass upon their quality. Neither should it interfere with the
							employer and his workmen, nor prescribe the hours or conditions of labor in
							factories.

						The theory of individualism

						The principle on which this early political economy was based was that every person
							was the best judge of what was good for himself, and, if left alone, would rise or
							fall in the scale of prosperity according to his individual efforts and abilities.
							Prices would be kept at the lowest possible point by competition among manufacturers,
							and a "natural" rate of wages would be established in each industry under the law of
							supply and demand. This theory was peculiarly acceptable to the prosperous middle
							class of merchants and manufacturers, and they assumed that their doctrines were not
							only sound and productive of the greatest happiness, but partook of the character of
							"natural laws" which could not be broken by governments or by organizations of
							workingmen without disastrous consequences.

						The working class and their "political economy"

						The chief trouble with this political economy was that it did not work out in
							practice, as the theorists had imagined, in universal well-being. On the contrary, the
							great manufacturing cities, instead of being filled with happy and prosperous people,
							became the homes of a relatively few well-to-do and multitudes of poor working people,
							who rapidly grew discontented with their lot in life and refused to be pacified by
							declarations that the condition in which they found themselves was the product of
							"nature." The working class and their sympathizers began to criticize the political
							economy of the middle class, and their spokesmen began to formulate one of their own.
							Their attitude toward the economy of Adam Smith and Ricardo is summed up in the words
							of Charles Kingsley: "The man who tells us that we ought to investigate nature simply
							to sit still patiently under her and let her freeze and ruin and starve and  stink us to death is a goose, whether he calls himself a
							chemist or a political economist." Out of this revolt against the conditions of life
							imposed by the uncontrolled factory system grew what is called vaguely the socialist
							movement.
					

					
						THE RISE OF SOCIALISM

						Precursors of socialism

						42. Discontent with the poverty of the masses is, of course, as old
							as civilization, and from the fifth century before Christ, when Plato wrote his work
							on The Republic, down to our own days, when writers like Edward
							Bellamy and H. G. Wells have tried to picture for us an ideal future, men have dreamed
							of a civilization without poverty, idleness, or ugliness.1

						Early socialists

						It will be remembered that during the French Revolution Babœuf declared that reform
							had only begun, and that the only cure for poverty was the transfer of private
							property to the State, which should manage it for the good of all. But he made few
							converts, and his plans came to naught.

						Saint-Simon 1760-1825

						The Napoleonic wars and the restoration of the monarchy did not, however, extinguish
							interest in social reform, and a number of writers began to consider seriously various
							methods of abolishing poverty. Among these Saint-Simon, Fourier, and Robert Owen
							assume a leading place. The first is commonly regarded as the founder of French
							socialism. He was the heir to a great name and a considerable fortune and received his
							education from some of the leading scholars of his day; after demonstrating his love
							of liberty by participating in the American War of Independence, he devoted himself to
							the study of means for improving the social order. He came to the conclusion that the
							government should organize and manage industry through associations which would secure
							to each worker a reward proportionate to his services to the State. In his book 1Among these dreamers may be
								mentioned Sir Thomas More, who, in the time of Henry VIII, wrote the famous little
								book called Utopia, or "the land of nowhere," where everything was
								arranged as it should be, and where men lived together in brotherly love and
								prosperity. Since his day those who advocate any fundamental revolution in society
								have commonly been called "Utopians."
							 entitled The New Christianity he argued that it was the
							great mission of the Church to teach the brotherhood of man and to fight poverty and
							distress. After his death a small school of followers continued to propagate his
							doctrine.

						Fourier, 1772-1837

						While Saint-Simon was elaborating his plan for the regeneration of society, another
							Frenchman, Charles Fourier (b. 1772), was advocating a different remedy for poverty.
							He did not believe that the central government could possibly manage properly the
							great business enterprises necessary to human welfare, so he urged the formation of
							groups of families into what he called "phalanxes," which should each contain about
							two thousand members. Each group was to own buildings and all the needful implements
							for the production of the necessities of life. The total product was to be divided up
							in the following manner: capital was to receive four twelfths, labor five twelfths,
							and the talent necessary for the proper management of the phalanxes and all their
							enterprises was to receive three twelfths. Fourier believed that in this way universal
							harmony would be produced. His profound confidence in his theory is illustrated by the
							fact that for years he was at his house at twelve o'clock to confer with any
							philanthropist who felt inclined to furnish the money to start the first phalanx. The
							awaited visitor never came, but nevertheless Fourier's theories won many sympathizers,
							especially in the United States, among men of no less insight than Horace Greeley,
							Charles A. Dana, and George William Curtis. The experiment of actually founding a
							species of phalanx was made in Massachusetts by the Brook Farm Colony, of which
							several distinguished Americans were members for a time.

						Robert Owen

						In England the first great exponent of socialism was Robert Owen,1 a successful manufacturer and a generous
							friend of the poor. Like Fourier, he believed that he had found the secret for the
							regeneration of mankind in the formation of cooperative groups which should own and
							use for their own benefit all the means of production necessary for their common life.
							He wrote 1 See below, p.
								400.
							 innumerable works and tracts and preached his doctrine
							with untiring zeal; he even appealed to the crowned heads of Europe to take up his
							plan, and came to the United States to defend it before the House of Representatives.
							Several of his proposed colonies were actually founded in Great Britain, and also in
							the United States (for example, at New Harmony, Indiana), but they failed for a
							variety of reasons. Nevertheless, Owen's writings and labors influenced the working
							classes in England, and it is to his inspiration that the great British cooperative
							enterprises of the present day are largely due. It is probable, too, that we owe to
							Owen the word "socialism."

						The utopian socialists regarded by modern socialists as
							unpractical

						All these theorists had much in common. They were deeply moved by the misery which
							they saw about them, they boldly condemned the system of society in which they lived,
							and proposed a revolution which should remedy its evils. They did not, however, reckon
							with the great complexity of human nature or the respect for tradition which always
							stands in the way of change. They assumed that it would only be necessary to present a
							reasonable and beautiful theory of harmony and plenty in order to induce men to found
							a new social order. They also appealed to the upper classes for aid in realizing their
							schemes, and made no attempt to organize the great mass of workingmen into political
							parties for the purpose of getting control of the government and forcing it to forward
							their plans. The modern socialists look back upon these men as unpractical "utopians"
							who often had good ideas, but were, after all, mere dreamers.

						The Communist Manifesto

						The doctrines of modern socialism were formulated on the eve of the revolution of
							1848 by two young Germans, Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels, in a pamphlet known as the
								Communist Manifesto,1 which was destined to become the creed of the greatest
							international political movement the world has ever seen.

						1 The word "communistic"
							has now given way to "socialistic," which is generally used in the same sense that
							"communistic" was in 1848. Extracts from the Communist Manifesto are
							given in the Readings, Vol. II, pp. 489-493.

						

						Karl Marx, 1818-1883

						The first of these young men may be regarded as the founder of international
							socialism, although there is no doubt that he owed a great deal to the labors of his
							colleague. Karl Marx was born in 1818 in Treves, reared in an enlightened home, and
							educated at the Universities of Bonn and Berlin. He had early decided upon the career
							of a university professor, but the boldness of his speech and his radical tendencies
							barred his way and consequently he entered journalism. His attacks on the Prussian
							government led to the suppression of his paper in 1843, and the close surveillance of
							the police caused him to migrate to Paris. He was, however, expelled from France by
							Guizot, and after some wanderings he finally settled in London, where he studied and
							wrote until his death in 1883.

						Das Kapital

						Throughout his life Marx wrote voluminously on history, philosophy, and current
							politics, and for a time he was a correspondent of the New York Tribune when it was under the management of Horace Greeley. His fundamental
							views on political economy were brought together in a large work of three volumes
							entitled Das Kapital ("Capital"), the first part of which appeared
							in 1867, but which was left unfinished at his death. This work is so widely circulated
							among socialist leaders that it is sometimes called "the workingman's Bible," although
							it contains very few pages indeed that would enlighten a person seeking the cardinal
							doctrines of modern socialism which Marx laid down.1 These are to be found throughout his scattered writings,
							and especially in the Communist Manifesto mentioned above.

						The class struggle
						Bourgeoisie vs. proletariat

						Marx differs fundamentally from the utopian theorists,-- Saint-Simon, Fourier, and
							Owen,-- in repudiating the idea that socialism can be introduced by voluntary
							agreements among kindly disposed persons. He claims that the new order cannot be
							established artificially, but will nevertheless come, as an 1 The first volume of an English translation
								appeared in 1886, the second in 1906, while the third has just recently been
								published. Das Kapital has been translated into all of the
								continental languages.
							
							
								A WORKING-CLASS DEMONSTRATION IN ENGLAND AGAINST
									UNEMPLOYMENT
							
							
							 inevitable result of the Industrial Revolution which
							created capitalists and workingmen and introduced intense competition. "The history of
							all hitherto existing society," he says, "is the history of class struggles. Freeman
							and slave, patrician and plebeian, lord and serf, guild master and journeyman, in a
							word, oppressor and oppressed, have stood in constant antagonism to one another and
							carried on an uninterrupted warfare, now secret, now open, which has in every case
							ended either in the revolutionary reconstruction of society at large or in the common
							ruin of the contending classes. ... The modern society that has sprung from the ruins
							of feudal society has not done away with class antagonisms. It has but established new
							classes, new conditions of oppression, new forms of struggle in place of the old ones.
							Our epoch-- the epoch of the bourgeoisie-- possesses, however, this distinctive
							feature: it has simplified the class antagonisms. Society is more and more splitting
							up into two great hostile camps, into two great classes directly opposed to each
							other, bourgeoisie and proletariat."1

						Central idea of socialism

						In this present struggle, Marx believed, the working class would win by uniting to
							overthrow the capitalist class, not, however, by dividing up the
								property,-- which would even to a socialist seem sheer folly,-- but by
							transferring ownership to the state or nation as a whole, which should operate the
							means of production for the direct benefit of the people.

						The manner in which Marx believed socialism would be brought
							about

						The very development of modern industry, Marx contended, favors the establishment of
							socialism. Wealth and industries are concentrating in the control of great companies,
							trusts, and corporations, which are managed from central offices and carried on by
							salaried employees and manual laborers, while the capitalist, he declared, is becoming
							only a stockholder, an idle drone drawing dividends earned for him by other men.
							Hence, argued Marx, the capitalist has become a mere owner of property, as useless as
							the feudal lords in the eighteenth century, 1 That is, the great mass of the people as distinguished from
								the capitalistic class, or "bourgeoisie."
							 who neither fought in the armies nor protected the
							peasants around their castles as their ancestors had done, but crowded about the court
							of the king, where they lived magnificently on revenues collected by their stewards
							from the poor people who tilled their estates. Marx therefore predicted that in time
							the capitalist's right of ownership will be abolished, and that the salaried employees
							of the great corporations will become the salaried clerks of the government when it
							takes over all the industries for the common good; thus socialism will be
							established.

						Socialists maintain "labor" is the source of all wealth and is
							therefore entitled to the whole product

						It seems to the socialist that labor, in the broadest sense of the word, is the
							source of all wealth, whether this consists in houses, railroads, shoes and stockings,
							flour and potatoes, books, pictures, schools, libraries, newspapers, chemical
							laboratories, telephones. It was labor, they argue, which produced the capital
							necessary to establish the factories or railroads, and it is labor which keeps up the
							stream of goods of all kinds and directs man's energies into new and profitable
							fields. Only one who contributes in some way to the welfare of mankindwhether as a
							simple day laborer or an engineer, manager, inventor, designer, teacher, author,
							editor, or artist-- should have any share in the general output.

						Socialists would abolish private ownership of the means of
							production

						But as industry is now organized, the socialist holds, those who happen to have money
							to invest in machines, farms, and mines often derive a very large revenue from them
							without taking any part in the work. Consequently the socialists would turn over all
							of the means of production to the State, just as the roads, the waterworks, the
							telegraphs and telephones, and the postal system are now frequently in the hands of
							the government. Private ownership would then be confined to personal effects and
							articles of consumption,-- food, clothing, furniture, pictures, and books. This, they
							believe, would free the poor from the "exploitation" of the rich capitalists, who now
							too often control the newspapers and the lawmaking in their own interests and are able
							to arrange everything to increase their  personal share
							in the wealth produced. The extinction of the capitalist is to the socialist the only
							method of relieving the people as a whole from poverty and oppression.

						Reply of Marx to those who cry out against the abolition of private
							property

						To those who raise a cry against the injustice of this plan Marx replies: "You are
							horrified at our intention to do away with private property. But in your existing form
							of society private property is already done away with for nine tenths of the people;
							its existence for the few is solely due to its non-existence in the hands of those
							nine tenths. You reproach us, therefore, for proposing to abolish a form of property
							which can only exist because it is denied to the immense majority of society." So
							long, he urges, as the fundamental vice remains, the well-meaning efforts of
							"economists, philanthropists, humanitarians, improvers of the condition of the working
							class, organizers of charity, members of societies for the prevention of cruelty to
							animals, temperance agitators, and hole-in-the-corner reformers of every kind" must
							prove vain or insignificant.

						Glorious picture of a socialistic future

						In the name of "true democracy and human welfare" Marx and his followers summon the
							proletariat of every land, who, they urge, have nothing now to lose except their
							chains, to unite and make the world their own. They hold up before the workingman a
							picture of a time to come when the idle will be set to labor, and no one will become
							rich at the cost of his neighbor, when every one will have an opportunity to develop
							for the benefit of society the best that is in him. Poverty will then disappear, and
							all men, organized into a great army for the conquest of Nature, will emancipate
							themselves from hunger and disease and live together in harmony and brotherly
							love.

						It was some time before the principles laid down by Marx and Engels in the Communist Manifesto became accepted dogmas of great socialist parties;
							but the working-class leaders during the early part of the nineteenth century
							everywhere in Europe struggled to obtain the ballot for workingmen and to secure
							government interference to improve their lot. They participated actively in the
							agitation which led to the revolution of 1848;  and
							after they secured the vote they began the organization of independent political
							parties, which afterwards generally became socialistic in their character.
					

					
						REFERENCES
								Introduction of Machinery into Textile and Iron Industries:
										HOBSON, Evolution of Modern Capitalism,
									chap. iii; CHEYNEY, Industrial and Social History
										of England, pp. 203-212.
								Ancient and Mediaeval Experiments with Steam: THURSTON, A History of the Growth of the Steam Engine,
									pp. 1-19.
								Steam Engines before Watt's Inventions: THURSTON, pp. 19-78.
								James Watt and the Development of the Modern Engine: THURSTON, pp. 79-143.
								The Organization of Industry before Machinery: HOBSON, chap. ii; CHEYNEY, pp. 220-232.
								The Organization of Industry after Machinery: HOBSON, chap. iv; CHEYNEY, pp. 232-239.
								Development of the Industrial Town: HOBSON, chap. xiii.
								Employment of Women in Industry: HOBSON,
									chap. xii.
								Karl Marx and Socialism: KIRKUP, History of Socialism, pp. 130-167; SPARGO, Socialism, pp. 46-181.
								Ferdinand Lassalle: KIRKUP, pp.
									73-122.
								Recent Progress of Socialism: KIRKUP, pp.
									311-349.
					
				

				
					

					CHAPTER XIII
						REVOLUTION OF 1848 IN FRANCE

					

						UNPOPULARITY OF LOUIS PHILIPPE'S GOVERNMENT

						Character of Louis Philippe

						43. The revolution of 1830 gave the final blow in France to the
							divine right of kings. The sovereignty of the people was proclaimed in the revised
							Charter which Louis Philippe accepted from the parliament. He added to the former
							title-- "King of the French by the Grace of God "-- the significant phrase "and the
							Will of the Nation." But in spite of these externals, only a small fraction of the
							nation had any part in the new government. The revised election law, which reduced the
							voting age from forty to thirty years and the property qualification by one third,
							still excluded the majority of Frenchmen from political life. The king himself
							announced that his policy would be the golden mean between conservatism and
							liberalism. He lived without the pomp of royalty, and was fond of going shopping,
							almost unattended, carrying his green umbrella under his arm. He was cautious,
							grasping, and avaricious, and as time wore on he grew more and more conservative. His
							reign of eighteen years was a period of political stagnation.

						The legitimists

						The so-called "July monarchy" was therefore stoutly opposed by two types of
							extremists,-- the adherents of the older Bourbon line, or "legitimists," as they were
							called, and the republicans. The former regarded as their lawful king a grandson of
							Charles X whom they called Henry V. This party was numerically small; it was mainly
							recruited from the nobility and the clergy, and was not given to violent measures,
							such as throwing up barricades and seizing public buildings.

						

						The republicans

						It was an altogether different matter with the republicans, who cherished the
							memories of 1793 and continued to threaten France with another violent revolution.
							This party carried on its work mainly through secret societies, similar to the
							Carbonari in Italy, which spread rapidly in the new manufacturing towns. Remembering
							the ease with which they had overturned the throne in 1830, the republicans made
							several futile attempts to organize insurrections, which were speedily put down,
							however, by Louis Philippe's troops.

						The government takes measures to suppress the republican party

						In addition to their other efforts to destroy the monarchy, the republicans published
							a number of papers which attacked the government and even ventured to make sport of
							the king. The administration thereupon determined to suppress entirely this
							revolutionary party by strict police supervision of societies and by press censorship.
							By these vigorous methods the republicans, as a political party, were reduced for the
							time being to insignificance.

						The socialists

						Meanwhile there was growing up in the large industrial cities a socialistic party,
							which no mere change of rulers or extension of the suffrage would satisfy. Its members
							had seen the republic, the empire, and the Bourbon monarchy come and go, and
							constitutions made and unmade, leaving the poverty of the peasants and workingmen
							unalleviated. On the other hand, they had seen the nobles deprived of their privileges
							and the clergy of their property, and it was only natural that bold thinkers among
							them should demand that the triumphant middle class, who owed their wealth to commerce
							and the new machinery, should in turn be divested of some of their riches and
							privileges in the interest of the working classes.

						Babœuf advocates a socialistic system during the Reign of
							Terror

						Denunciations of private property and of the unequal distribution of wealth had been
							heard during the first French Revolution and even earlier, but they had attracted
							little attention. Babœuf (1760-1797) had declared in the days of the Terror that a political revolution left the condition of the people practically
							unchanged. "When I see the poor without the  clothing
							and shoes which they themselves are engaged in making, and contemplate the small
							minority who do not work and yet want for nothing, I am convinced that government is
							still the old conspiracy of the few against the many, only it has taken a new form."
							His proposal to transfer all property to the State and so administer it that every one
							should be assured employment, speedily found adherents, and a society was formed to
							usher in the new order. The organization was soon suppressed and Babœuf himself
							executed; but his writings were widely circulated, and after the July revolution in
							1830 several groups of socialists began to agitate their plans of social
							revolution.

						Louis Blanc's Organization of Labor, 1839

						The work of formulating a practical program for these different factions was
							undertaken by Louis Blanc, whose volume on The Organization of
							Labor, published in 1839, gave definiteness to the vague aspirations of the
								reformers.1 Blanc proclaimed
							the right of all men to employment and the duty of the State to provide it. He
							proposed that the government should furnish the capital to found national workshops
							which should be managed by the workmen, who were to divide the profits of the industry
							among themselves, thus abolishing the employing class altogether. The "organization of
							labor" became the battle cry of the labor leaders; it was heard even in the Chamber of
							Deputies. Nevertheless, there was no well-organized socialist party ready to enter the
							political field or to work for a definite aim.

						Views of Thiers and Guizot

						The political power at this time was really in the hands of two groups of statesmen,
							one headed by Thiers, and the other by Guizot, both famous as historians and men of
							letters. Thiers wished to have a constitution like that of England, where, as he was
							wont to say, "the king reigns but does not rule." Guizot wished the king to exercise
							real power; he did not want the throne to become an "empty armchair," and regarded
							further changes in the constitution as undesirable. In 1840 he became prime minister,
							and he and the king together 1 For Blanc's labor program, see Readings, Vol. II, p. 76.
							 ruled France for eight years. Though personally
							honorable, Guizot placed the government on a thoroughly corrupt basis and then
							attempted to stifle protest by police measures and the prosecution of newspaper
							editors. He steadily refused to undertake any legislation for the benefit of the
							working classes and opposed all efforts to extend the suffrage, maintaining that there
							were not more than one hundred thousand persons in all France "capable of voting with
							good judgment and independence."
					

					
						THE SECOND FRENCH REPUBLIC

						The February revolution in Paris

						44. In spite of Guizot's strong position, there were, in February,
							1848, disturbances in the streets of Paris which frightened Louis Philippe and led to
							the resignation of the unpopular minister. But this did not restore quiet, for the
							leaders in the street disturbances wanted far more than a change in the ministry.
							During the evening of the twenty-third they made a formidable demonstration before the
							Foreign Office, where Guizot resided; thereupon the soldiers on guard fired upon and
							killed several of the rioters. This roused the anger of the populace to fever heat;
							the bodies of the victims were placed on a cart and carried through the boulevards in
							a weird torch-light procession. Before the dawn of February 24 the eastern part of the
							city was covered with barricades. In the narrow winding streets a cart or two and a
							heap of cobblestones formed an effective fortification, while the tall houses on
							either side enabled a few defenders to check a considerable body of soldiers.

						Abdication of Louis Philippe, February 24, 1848
						A republic proclaimed

						The entire city was soon in the hands of the insurgents, and Louis Philippe in
							despair abdicated in favor of his grandson, the count of Paris. Both the republicans
							and the labor party were determined to have no more royalty, so they proclaimed a
							republic on the afternoon of the twenty-fourth, subject to the ratification of the
							people in a national assembly to be summoned immediately.

						

						How the labor party was able to control the provisional
							government

						The moderate republicans were quite satisfied with merely abolishing the monarchy,
							but the workingmen, whose active coöperation had put the revolutionists in power, had
							set their hearts on introducing the whole scheme advocated by Louis Blanc. A decree
							was issued by the provisional government ordering the establishment of national
							workshops and charging the minister of public works with carrying the plan into
							execution. This measure was accepted by the majority of the provisional government in
							order to avoid a division in their ranks, which at that moment might have led to a
							renewal of disorder in Paris.

						A labor commission established at the Luxembourg

						As a further concession to the labor element the provisional government declared that
							it was necessary without delay to assure to the people the legitimate fruits of their
							labor, and established in the Luxembourg palace a committee charged with the special
							task of looking after the interests of the working classes. This was really a shrewd
							move on the part of the opponents of the "socialists," for it sent the latter away
							from the City Hall to waste their time in making fine speeches and expounding theories
							for the execution of which no money had been appropriated.

						The labor parliament assembles in the hall hitherto occupied by the
							House of Peers

						The Luxembourg committee, headed by Louis Blanc and a leader of the workingmen named
							Albert, began its sessions on March i, and at once proceeded to organize a labor
							parliament composed of delegates from each craft. This was opened on March 10 with a
							speech by the eloquent Blanc. He declared that as he beheld the workmen assembled in
							the Hall of the Peers, hitherto the sanctuary of privilege, in which so many laws
							directed against them had been made, he felt an emotion which he could with difficulty
							repress. "On these same seats," he exclaimed, "once glittering with embroidered coats,
							what do I see now? Garments threadbare with honorable toil, some perhaps bearing the
							marks of recent conflict." The labor parliament, however, accomplished very little,
							for the government had furnished them with no capital, and consequently Louis Blanc
							and his supporters were powerless to carry  out their
							plan for coöperative workshops, which they regarded as the most vital of all their
								reforms.1

						The national workshops a mere temporary expedient unworthy the
							name

						The provisional government had, it is true, ordered the establishment of national
							workshops and issued a decree guaranteeing employment to all, but with very different
							motives from those of the labor committee. Louis Blanc and his followers sought to
							organize the various trades into permanent, self-supporting coöperative industries,
							financed in the beginning by the State, but managed by the workingmen themselves. The
							provisional government, on the contrary, merely desired to allay the restlessness of
							the unemployed by fair promises. It opened relief works accordingly, which offered
							more or less useless occupation to the idle men who thronged to Paris. It attempted no
							more than merely to organize into brigades those who applied for work, and set them to
							digging ditches and building forts at a uniform wage of two francs a day.

						This crude temporary expedient was put into operation March 1, and in fifteen days
							six thousand men had enrolled in the government employ. In April the number reached a
							hundred thousand, and several million francs were being expended to pay these labor
							gangs. The plan, however, realized the original object of the government,-- it kept
							the idle busy and prevented disorder until the conservative classes could regain their
							usual ascendency.

						The National Assembly exhibits no sympathy for socialism

						On May 4 the provisional government gave way to a National Assembly elected by
							practically universal manhood suffrage, which was called upon to draft a new
							republican constitution for the country. The majority of the deputies were moderate
							republicans who were bitterly opposed to all socialistic tendencies. The rural
							districts which had taken no part in the Revolution could now make themselves felt,
							and it was clear enough that the representatives of the peasants did not sympathize in
							any way with the projects and demands of the Paris workingmen.

						1 Blanc's version of this
							experiment is given in the Readings, Vol. II, p. 82.

						

						
							CONFLICT BETWEEN WORKINGMEN AND THE TROOPS IN PARIS, JUNE,
								1848
						

						
						

						The terrible "June days" of 1848

						Before it could proceed to consider seriously the form of the new constitution the
							National Assembly was forced to take decisive measures in regard to the "national
							workshops," to which crowds continued to flock, draining the treasury to pay for their
							useless labor. It soon resolved to close the "workshops," and ordered the men either
							to join the army or leave the city. The people at once set up the cry of "bread or
							lead," and the most terrible street fighting that Paris had ever witnessed ensued. The
							streets of the districts inhabited by the working classes were again torn up for
							barricades, and from Friday, June 23, until the following Monday a desperate conflict
							raged. The assembly, fearing the triumph of the labor party, invested General
							Cavaignac with dictatorial power to crush the revolt. Victory was inevitably on the
							side of the government troops, who were well disciplined and well equipped, while the
							insurgents fought irregularly and were half-starved. In its hour of triumph the
							government's retaliation was most unjustifiably severe; about four thousand citizens
							were transported without trial, thirty-two newspapers were suppressed, and the leading
							writers among the radicals imprisoned. Order was restored, but the carnage of the
							"June days" left a heritage of undying hatred between the workingmen and the
							capitalists of Paris.

						The constitution of the second French Republic completed, November,
							1848

						After this "solution" of the labor problem the assembly turned to the work of drawing
							up a constitution. In spite of a strong royalist minority, the assembly had declared
							itself in favor of a republic on the very first day of meeting. It revived the motto
							of "Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity," and urged all Frenchmen to forget their former
							dissensions and "to constitute henceforth but a single family."

						After six months of debate a new constitution was promulgated. It proclaimed the
							sovereignty of the people and guaranteed religious freedom and liberty of the press.
							The government was vested in a single chamber elected by popular vote, and in a
							president, to be chosen, also by popular vote, for a term, of four years.

						

						The candidates for the presidency

						After the establishment of the constitution, interest centered in the first
							presidential election, held on December 10, 1848. Three leading candidates entered the
							contest, Ledru-Rollin, representing the labor party, General Cavaignac, who had so
							ruthlessly suppressed the June insurrection, and Louis Napoleon, a nephew of Napoleon
							I.

						Checkered career of Louis Napoleon

						The last of these candidates had up to this time led a varied and interesting life.
							He was born in Paris while his father, Louis Napoleon, was king of Holland. After his
							uncle's down-fall, when he was six years old, he was expelled from France with his
							mother, who wandered about with him for some time. She continually impressed upon his
							youthful mind the fact that one who bore the great name of Bonaparte was destined to
							accomplish something in the world, and he came firmly to believe that it was his
							mission to reestablish the Napoleonic dynasty on the throne of France.

						Louis Napoleon's work on Napoleonic Ideas

						After the death of Napoleon I's son in 18321 he put himself forward as the direct claimant to the
							imperial crown, and four years later he attempted to provoke a military uprising at
							Strassburg, designed to put him on the throne of France. This proved a miserable
							failure. He then settled in England, where he published in 1839 a volume on Napoleonic Ideas,2 in which he represented Napoleon as the servant of the principles of the
							Revolution, his empire as the guardian of the rights of the people, and his fondest
							desire, the progress of democracy. In 1
								Chief members of the Napoleonic House.
								
									Carlos Buonaparte
									Joseph king of Spain Napoleon I Louis king of Holland
											Caroline m. Murat, king of Naples
										Jerome king of Westphalia
									Napoleon II king of Rome d. 1832 Napoleon III
									Napoleon Joseph (Plon Plon)
									 Eugene Louis (killed in Zululand, 1879)
									Victor
								
							
							2 Extracts from this work
								are printed in the Readings, Vol. II, p. 84.
							 short, he created a fictitious Napoleon who hoped and
							labored only for the good of the people, and who was overthrown by tyrants.

						In 1840 it seemed to Louis Napoleon that the time was ripe for another attempt to win
							the coveted crown. He landed with a few companions at Boulogne, bringing with him a
							tame eagle as an emblem of the empire. This second enterprise, like the first, proved
							a fiasco, and the unhappy leader was shut up in a fortress, from which, in 1846, he
							escaped to England to await the good fortune to which he still firmly believed himself
							destined.

						Louis Napoleon returns to France in 1848

						The insurrection in 1848 offered just the opportunity he desired, and four days after
							the proclamation of the republic he announced his presence in Paris to the provisional
							government, pledged himself to support it, and declared that he had no other ambition
							than that of serving his country. Shortly afterward he was elected a member of the
							National Assembly and soon found favor with the populace.

						He conciliates the favor of all classes and is elected president of
							the French Republic

						He had for years professed himself a democrat and proclaimed his belief in the
							sovereignty of the people.1 He
							had written of several essays in which he had expressed sympathy with the working
							classes, and he was known to have interested himself in the projects of Louis Blanc.
							He now offered himself as a candidate for the presidency and issued a campaign
							manifesto, as adroitly worded as many of his famous uncle's proclamations, in which he
							promised the working classes special laws for their benefit; but, on the other hand,
							he distinctly repudiated all socialistic schemes and reassured the middle classes by
							guaranteeing order and the security of property. He did not forget the soldiers, to
							whom he recalled the glories of the empire and offered an assured existence in return
							for their long and faithful services to their country. This time his plans worked
							admirably, for he was elected president by an overwhelming majority of five and a half
							million votes to less than one million and a half cast for the two other candidates
							combined.

						1 An interesting
							characterization of Louis Napoleon by one who knew him is given in the Readings, Vol. II, p. 92.
					

					

					

						LOUIS NAPOLEON AND THE SECOND FRENCH EMPIRE

						45. It soon became clear that the man whom the French had put at
							the head of their second republic was bent on making himself emperor.

						How Louis Napoleon began to work toward reëestablishing the
							empire

						He speedily began to work for a revision of the constitution that would extend his
							term of office from four to ten years. He selected his ministers from among his
							personal friends, courted the favor of the army and the government officials, and by
							journeys through the country sought to arouse the enthusiasm of the people for the
							restoration of the empire.

						Coup d'état of December 1-2, 1851

						As the Assembly refused to coöperate in his plans he finally determined to risk a coup d'état, which he had been meditating for some time. After a
							social function held in his palace on the evening of December 1, 1851, he gathered
							about him a few of his most trusted advisers and confided his designs to them. When
							the morning of December 2-- the anniversary of the glorious victory of Austerlitz--
							broke, the walls of Paris were placarded with copies of a decree issued by the
							president, dissolving the Assembly, reëstablishing universal suffrage, and ordering a
							new election.1

						The president is given dictatorial power by a plebiscitum

						Finally, he submitted to the people of France the following proposition: "The French
							people desire the maintenance of the authority of Louis Napoleon Bonaparte and
							delegate to him the necessary powers in order to make a constitution on the basis
							announced in his proclamation of December 2." Every Frenchman twenty-one years of age
							was permitted to vote "yes" or "no" on this proposition, and the result was officially
							estimated at 7,740,000 for the measure and 646,000 against it. The coup
								d'état was thus approved by the people, and what may be called the
							constitutional absolutism of the first Napoleon was again introduced into France.

						Peaceful character of the revolution of December, 1851

						Save for a little bloodshed in Paris on December 4, this revolution was accomplished
							very quietly. About a hundred 1 For Louis Napoleon's appeal to the French,
									see Readings, Vol. II, p. 33.
							 thousand opponents of Napoleon throughout the country,
							including the leaders of the opposition in the assembly, were arrested, and nearly ten
							thousand were deported, but the people at large accepted the situation without
							protest. The workingmen generally rejoiced in the overthrow of the politicians who had
							waged war on them in the bloody June days of 1848.

						Reëstablishment of the empire, November 1852

						The president was now master of France. He appointed officers, initiated laws,
							declared war, made peace, and in fact himself constituted the real power in the
							government. Though already an emperor in reality, he was not satisfied until he
							secured the title, and it was evident that the country was ready for the fulfillment
							of his hopes, for wherever he went he was greeted with cries of "Long live the
							Emperor." Part of this public sentiment was doubtless inspired by the president's
							officials, but the name of Napoleon awakened glorious memories, and there was a
							genuine desire throughout France to see the empire reëstablished.

						Toward the close of 1852 Louis Napoleon, in a speech at Bordeaux,1 at last openly announced his belief that
							France was ready for the abolition of the second republic. Inasmuch as the members of
							the senate were chosen by Louis Napoleon himself they readily agreed to pass a decree
							making him Napoleon III, emperor of the French. This decree was submitted to popular
							vote (November, 1852) and ratified by an overwhelming majority. The dream of Louis
							Napoleon's life was at last realized,-- the Napoleonic dynasty was restored.

						Despotic character of Napoleon III's government

						For over ten years his government was a thinly veiled despotism. Though the imperial
							constitution confirmed the great principles of the Revolution, a decree abolishing the
							liberty of the press was immediately issued. No periodical or newspaper treating of
							political or social economy could be published without previous authorization on the
							part of the government. Moreover the government officers could suppress journals at
							will. Napoleon III had promised liberty of instruction, but he 1
									Readings, Vol. II, p. 91.
							 compelled the teachers in the university to take an
							oath of allegiance to himself. Instruction in history and philosophy was discouraged,
							and the university professors were directed to shave their moustaches "in order to
							remove from their appearance, as well as from their manners, the last vestiges of
							anarchy."

						Prosperity of France under the second empire, 1852-1870

						Notwithstanding this autocratic régime, the country was prosperous and the people
							fairly contented. If the emperor was a despot, he endeavored-- and with no little
							success-- to be an enlightened one. Benevolent institutions increased in number.
							Railway construction was rapidly pushed forward, and great trunk lines which had been
							begun under Louis Philippe were completed. The city of Paris was improved and
							beautified; the narrow streets were widened and broad avenues laid out. The great
							exposition of 1855 testified to the industrial and scientific advance of France; and
							if little of all this progress is to be attributed to the emperor's initiative, it
							nevertheless remains a fact that it was accomplished under his rule. Moreover, in
							1870, he yielded to the imperative demand of the Liberals for a reform of the
							constitution, and established the responsibility of his ministers to parliament. If it
							had not been for a series of foreign events which weakened his prestige at home,
							Napoleon III might have remained securely on his throne until his death.
					

					

						REFERENCES
								The Character of Louis Philippe's Government: SEIGNOBOS, Political History of Europe since 1814, pp.
									132-136; FYFFE, History of Modern Europe, pp.
									699-703; ANDREWS, Historical Development of Modern
										Europe, Vol. I, pp. 276-314; Cambridge Modern History,
									Vol. X, chap. xv, pp. 475-490; MÜLLER, Political
										History of Recent Times, pp. 182-186; HAZEN, Europe since 1815, pp. 114-127.
								Growth of the Republican and Labor Parties: SEIGNOBOS, pp. 136-142; ANDREWS, Vol. I, pp. 315-319;
										Cambridge Modern History, Vol. X, chap. xv, pp. 490-493; HAZEN, pp. 136-141.
								The Guizot Ministry and Development of Opposition: SEIGNOBOS, pp. 145-152; ANDREWS, Vol. I, pp.
									320-336; HAZEN, pp. 133-136.
								
								The February Revolution: SEIGNOBOS, pp.
									155-159; FYFFE, pp. 703-706; ANDREWS, Vol.
									I, pp. 336-345; MÜLLER, pp. 186-192; HAZEN,
									pp. 141-144.
								The Labor Party and its Overthrow: SEIGNOBOS, pp. 159-164; FYFFE, pp. 729-734; ANDREWS, Vol. I, pp. 345-358; MÜLLER, pp.
									192-197; HAZEN, pp. 187-194.
								The Second Republic and Louis Napoleon: SEIGNOBOS, pp. 164-170; FYFFE, pp. 734-737, 81o-823;
										ANDREWS, Vol. II, pp. 7-41; MÜLLER, pp.
									197-202; HAZEN, pp. 195-206.
								The Empire of Napoleon III: SEIGNOBOS,
									pp. 170-184 ; ANDREWS, Vol. II, pp. 146-188; HAZEN, pp. 206-214.
					
				

				
					

					CHAPTER XIV
						REVOLUTION OF 1848,-- AUSTRIA, GERMANY, ITALY

					

						THE FALL OF METTERNICH

						The issues of the revolution of 1848 broader than those of the first
							French Revolution

						46. When Metternich heard of the February revolution in France all
							his old fears were revived. "Europe finds herself to-day," he declared, "in the
							presence of a second 1793." Great changes had, however, taken place during the
							fifty-five years which had elapsed since France first offered to aid other nations to
							free themselves from their "tyrants" and throw off the trammels of feudalism. In 1848
							the principles proclaimed in the Declaration of the Rights of Man were accepted by the
							liberal parties which had come into existence in every state of Europe, and which were
							actively engaged in promoting the cause of popular government, a free press, equality
							of all before the law, and the abolition of the vestiges of the feudal system.
							Moreover the national spirit which had awakened during the Napoleonic Period was at
							work, and served more than anything else to excite opposition to the existing order.
							Lastly, the Industrial Revolution was quickening the thought and rousing the
							aspirations of the great mass of the population. Those who lived by the labor of their
							hands and were employed in the new industries which were rapidly developing now had
							their spokesmen, especially in France, and claimed the right to vote and to mold the
							laws to meet their particular interests. So in 1848 the rights of nations and of the
							laborer were added to the rights of man, which had constituted the main issue in
							1793.

						The agitation of 1848 general throughtout western Europe

						In nearly every European country, the liberals were encouraged by the successful
							February revolution in Paris to undertake  to win, by
							violence if necessary, the reforms which they had so long been advocating. In England
							a body of workingmen, known as "Chartists," made a desperate though futile effort to
							wring from Parliament the right to vote. The Swiss, who had just passed through a
							civil conflict, swept away the constitution which had been adopted in 1814, and drew
							up a new one.1 The chief
							agitations of 1848-- if we except that in France, described in the preceding chapter--
							occurred in Germany, Italy, and the Austrian dominions, and it seems best to consider
							first the disturbances in Vienna, where Metternich had for forty years been doing his
							best to prevent any hint of change.

						Extraordinary mixture of peoples under Austrian rule

						But before proceeding it will be necessary to consider more carefully than we have
							hitherto done the singular composition of the realms of the House of Hapsburg. The
							regions west of Vienna, extending to Switzerland and Bavaria, were inhabited chiefly
							by Germans. To the south, in the provinces of Carniola, Styria, Carinthia, and Istria,
							there were many Slavs; and to the north, in Bohemia and Moravia, were the Czechs,
							interspersed among twice their number of Germans. On the borders of Russia dwelt the
							Poles, whose territories the emperor had received at 1 The settlement of 1815 in Switzerland, like
								that in Germany, Italy, and other European countries, met with opposition from the
								liberals. It had left the internal government of each canton in the hands of a small
								minority of the wealthy classes, and had modeled the diet on that of Germany, making
								it merely a congress of ambassadors with slight powers. Agitation for a revision of
								this system was begun immediately after its establishment, but it was opposed
								especially by the Catholics, who were in a slight minority and feared that a
								stronger central government would be used by the Protestants to restrict their
								rights. In 1841 the government of Aargau precipitated a civil conflict by
								suppressing the monasteries within its jurisdiction. Although the Swiss constitution
								guaranteed the monasteries in their rights, the federal government refused to
								interfere with the domestic concerns of Aargau. Thereupon the Catholic cantons,
								under the leadership of Lucerne, Uri, and Zug, formed a Catholic alliance, or Sonderbund, which defied the entire democratic and nationalist
								party. After some skirmishes which scarcely deserve the name of war, this party of
								disunion was suppressed, and in 1848 a new federal constitution drawn up. Instead of
								a diet of ambassadors it provided for a senate representing the states, and for
								deputies elected by the people at large on the plan of the government of the United
								States. This constitution was revised in 1874, when still larger powers were given
								to the federal government. For further details see Seignobos, Political
									History of Europe since 1814, pp. 256-285.
							 the partition of their kingdom. The inhabitants of the
							kingdom of Hungary included, besides the Magyars, or Hungarians proper, who dwelt in
							the vast plains of the Danube valley, Roumanians in the south and east, and the
							independence-loving Croats (Croatians) in the south and west. Beyond the Alps was the
							Lombardo-Venetian kingdom inhabited by Italians. Among this mass of people of
							different tongues and traditions, the most important were the Germans of Austria, the
							Czechs of Bohemia, the Magyars of Hungary, and the Italians in Lombardy and
							Venetia.

						The government of Austria

						In the provinces of the Austrian Empire, Ferdinand I ruled personally through
							ministers whom he appointed and dismissed. Laws were made, taxes levied, and revenues
							spent without consulting the people. Newspapers, books, theaters, and teachers were
							under close police surveillance to prevent the introduction of any new ideas. Travel
							abroad was restricted by a decree which required every citizen leaving the realm to
							have a government passport. Scholars were therefore largely cut off from the thought
							of western Europe, and Metternich boasted that the scientific spirit had been kept out
							of even the universities. The nobles still enjoyed their ancient authority over their
							serfs, including the right to prevent their leaving the villages without permission,
							and to exact from them the old feudal services. The clergy were as powerful as they
							had been before the French Revolution, and non-Catholics were excluded entirely from
							government offices.

						Hungary controlled by the Magyar nobles

						In the kingdom of Hungary the government was under the control of the proud and
							tyrannical Magyar nobles, who still enjoyed their old feudal privileges. There was a
							diet, or parliament, composed of an upper house of nobles, and a lower house of
							representatives chosen by the smaller landlords. Although the Magyars, or Hungarians
								proper1, constituted less
							than one 1 The
								Hungarians-- who belong to a very different race from the Slavic peoples and speak
								the Magyar tongue-- invaded the Danube valley in the year 895, and wedged themselves
								in between the Slavic Russians and Poles on the north and the Slavic Croats,
								Slovaks, and Servians on the south.
							 half of the population, they held their neighbors, the
							Croats, Roumanians, and Slovaks, in contempt, and denied them all national rights.
							There were, however, enlightened liberals in Hungary, whose programme included the
							admission of the public to the discussions in the diet; a parliamentary journal in
							which the debates should be published in full; regular yearly meetings of the diet;
							equal taxation of all classes; the abolition of the forced labor required of the
							peasant, and all other vestiges of serfdom.

						Kossuth (1802-1894)

						The government did all it could to suppress these tendencies. The publication of
							reform speeches was forbidden, and a prominent Hungarian leader, Kossuth, was
							imprisoned for circulating them in manuscript. Undaunted by this punishment, however,
							Kossuth, on his release, established a newspaper at Pesth and began to advocate
							radical reforms in the Hungarian government itself, as well as greater freedom from
							Austrian interference. With fiery zeal he wrote and spoke on the abolition of feudal
							privileges, the introduction of trial by jury, revision of the barbarous criminal law,
							and similar questions which had long agitated the rest of Europe.

						Causes of discontent in Lombardo-Venetia

						The Italians in Lombardo-Venetia were no less dissatisfied than the Hungarians. The
							Austrian government there was in the hands of police officials and judges who arrested
							and imprisoned freely all advocates of Italian rights. Tariffs were so arranged as to
							enrich the emperor's treasury and check Italian industries in favor of those of
							Austria. The forts were garrisoned with Austrian troops which the government employed
							to suppress any violent demonstrations.

						March revolution in Vienna
						Fall of Metternich

						The ground was therefore thoroughly prepared for the seeds of insurrection when the
							overthrow of Louis Philippe encouraged the opponents of Metternich in Germany,
							Austria, Hungary, and Italy to hope that they could destroy his system at once and
							forever. On March 13, 1848, a number of students proceeded to the assembly hall in
							Vienna where the local diet was in session, and, supported by the crowd  that quickly gathered, invaded the building. Outside, the
							mob continued to increase, barricades were built, street fighting began, and shouts of
							"Down with Metternich" penetrated the imperial palace. The aged minister, convinced
							that it was no longer possible to check the rising torrent of revolution, tendered his
							resignation. He fled from Austria and found refuge in England, where he was heartily
							welcomed by his old friend, the duke of Wellington, who was himself occupied with a
							threatened uprising in London. After the flight of Metternich a new ministry was
							formed, which began to draft a constitution.

						Reform measures in Hungary

						Two days after the uprising in Vienna the Hungarian diet at Pressburg, by a unanimous
							vote, dispatched a delegation to the emperor, demanding a responsible ministry,
							freedom of the press, trial by jury, and a national educational system. Then the
							Hungarian diet, under the influence of the zealous patriot, Kossuth, swept away the
							old offices through which the emperor had ruled in Hungary, and established its own
							ministries of finance, war, and foreign affairs,-- a first step toward independence.
							It also emancipated the peasants without providing compensation to the landlords,
							leaving that as a "debt of honor" to be paid in the future. The king, owing to the
							insurrection in Vienna, was in no position to reject even these revolutionary
							measures.

						Revolution in Prague

						His troubles were, moreover, not yet at an end, for on March 15 the patriotic Czechs
							in the city of Prague held a mass meeting at which a petition for civil liberty and
							the abolition of serfdom was drawn up. Solemn mass was then said, and a delegation
							bearing the petition left by special train for Vienna amid the cheers of the crowd and
							the waving of Czech flags. The emperor addressed the Bohemian delegates, to their
							great joy, in their own language, and approved most of their proposals. It will be
							observed that so far neither in Hungary nor in Bohemia had the patriots showed any
							desire to throw off their allegiance to their Austrian ruler.

						Revolution throughout Italy, March, 1848

						In Italy, however, the Austrian rule was thoroughly hated. Immediately on hearing the
							news of Metternich's fall the  Milanese expelled the
							imperial troops from their city, and the Austrians were soon forced to evacuate a
							great part of Lombardy. The Venetians followed the lead of Milan and set up once more
							their ancient republic which Napoleon had suppressed. The Milanese, anticipating a
							struggle, appealed to Charles Albert, king of Sardinia, for aid. By the middle of
							March a great part of Italy was in revolt, and constitutions had been granted by the
							rulers in Naples, Rome, Tuscany, and Piedmont. The king of Sardinia was forced by
							public opinion to assume the leadership in the attempt to expel the interloping
							Austria and ultimately perhaps to found some sort of an Italian union which would
							satisfy the national aspirations of the Italian people. Pope Pius IX, who was just
							beginning his long and celebrated pontificate of more than thirty years, and even the
							Bourbon king of Naples, were induced to consent to the arming of troops in the cause
							of Italian freedom, and thus Italy began her first war for independence.

						The Prussians demand a constitution

						The crisis in Vienna and the war in Italy now made it impossible for Austria to
							continue to exercise the control over the German states which she had enjoyed for more
							than thirty years. Consequently there were almost simultaneous risings in Baden,
							Würtemberg, Bavaria, and Saxony. The news of the February revolution in Paris caused
							great excitement also in Berlin, where deputations were sent to the king, asking him
							to grant Prussia a constitution. On March 18 a crowd before the royal palace came into
							serious collision with the police; some street fighting ensued, and barricades were
							constructed after the Paris fashion in the districts in which the working people
							lived. Frederick William IV, hoping to avoid more disorder and bloodshed, promised to
							summon an assembly to draft the desired constitution.

						A National Assembly convoked at Frankfort to draw up a new
							constitution for Germany, May, 1848

						Now that Metternich was overthrown there was some hope of reorganizing the weak
							German confederation and forming a new and firm union which would at last make a real
							nation of the Germans. At the instigation of the liberals the diet of  the confederation convoked a National Assembly made up of
							representatives chosen by popular vote in all the states. This met at Frankfort, May
							18, 1848, amid high hopes, and proceeded to take up the difficult question of drafting
							a constitution which should please at once the German princes and their liberal-minded
							subjects.
					

					

						FAILURE OF THE REVOLUTION IN
								BOHEMIA AND HUNGARY

						Bright outlook for reform in March, 1848

						47. By the end of March, 1848, the prospects of reform seemed
							bright indeed. Hungary and Bohemia had been granted the rights which they had so long
							desired; a committee in Vienna was busy drawing up a constitution for the Austrian
							provinces; Lombardy and Venetia had declared their independence; four other Italian
							states had obtained their longed-for constitutions; a Prussian convention to reform
							the government had been promised; and, lastly, a great National Assembly was about to
							be convened at Frankfort to prepare a constitution for a united Germany.

						How the radicals by their want of coöperation and their extreme
							demands, aided the conservatives to regain their power

						The reformers who had gained these seeming victories had, however, only just reached
							the most difficult part of their task. They were opposed by two parties, who abhorred
							each other, but who effectually combined to frustrate the plans for reform. These
							were, first, the conservatives, represented by the rulers and nobles, who were
							naturally reluctant to see popular constitutions established; and, secondly, the
							radicals of various degrees, from those who only wanted universal suffrage, to the
							socialists, who wished to overturn the whole existing economic system in favor of the
							working classes. As in France, so also in the other countries, the revolutionists were
							divided among themselves, and this division enabled the reactionary rulers and their
							supporters to recover from the extraordinary humiliations which they had suffered
							during the various uprisings in March.

						

						Divergent views of the Czechs and Germans in Bohemia

						The first notable victory for the reaction was in Bohemia, where race rivalry proved
							favorable to the reëstablishment of the emperor's former influence. The Czechs hated
							the Germans, while the Germans, on their part, feared that they would be oppressed if
							the Czechs were given a free hand. They therefore opposed the plan of making Bohemia
							practically independent of the government at Vienna, for it was to German Vienna that
							they were wont to look for protection against the enterprises of their Czechish
							fellow-countrymen. The German element also wanted to send delegates to the Frankfort
							Convention and were very anxious that Bohemia should not be excluded from the
							reorganized German confederation.

						The Pan-Slavic congress forced to carry on its debates in
							German

						The Czechs, on the other hand, determined to offset the movement toward German
							consolidation by a Pan-Slavic congress, which should bring together the various Slavic
							peoples comprised in the Austrian Empire. To this assembly, which met at Prague early
							in June, 1848, came representatives of the Czechs, Moravians, and Ruthenians in the
							north, and the Servians and Croatians in the south. Unfortunately the several Slavonic
							languages differ from one another quite as much as English, Swedish, Dutch, and
							German, and after trying French as a common tongue, the delegates had to fall back
							upon German, which was the only language with which they were all familiar.

						Windischgrätz puts an end to the Bohemian revolution, June 18,
							1848

						The congress accomplished nothing beyond fraternal declamations, and was about to
							dissolve on June 12, when some of the more radical students and workingmen began
							singing Bohemian songs and denouncing General Windischgrätz, a Bohemian nobleman in
							command of the troops in Prague, who was especially hated on account of his
							aristocratic bearing and sentiments. A street fight broke out between the crowd and
							his soldiers, which was followed by an attack on his residence. On June 17 he
							retaliated by bombarding the town, which caught fire. The next day he entered the
							flaming streets and announced that the revolution in Bohemia was at an end. This was
							Austria's first real victory over her rebellious subjects.

						

						Windischgrätz bombards and takes Vienna, October 31, 1848

						In Vienna affairs were going from bad to worse. Frightened by the growing disorder,
							the incompetent emperor fled to Innsbruck (May 18). A provisional government was set
							up and an assembly called to draft a new constitution, but nothing was accomplished.
							Meantime the turmoil increased. The emperor's government was helpless, and finally
							Windischgrätz announced his intention of marching on Vienna and, with the emperor's
							approval, putting an end to revolution there as he had done in Prague. The Viennese
							attempted to defend the city, but all in vain. After a cruel bombardment Windischgrätz
							entered the capital on October 31, and once within the walls, he showed little mercy
							on the people.1

						Francis Joseph becomes emperor of Austria

						A reactionary ministry was soon formed, and a new Metternich discovered in the person
							of Schwartzenberg, who forced the weak Ferdinand to abdicate, December 2, in favor of
							his youthful nephew, Francis Joseph, who still (1912) sits on the Austrian throne.

						Dissension between the Magyars and Slavs

						It will be remembered that after the fall of Metternich the emperor had not been in a
							position to refuse the demands of the Hungarians, and that they had succeeded in
							gaining practical independence for their kingdom. But the spirit of nationalism had
							also been awakened in the other races which the Magyars had so long dominated. The
							Slavs in Hungary, southern Austria, and the neighboring Turkish Empire had long
							meditated on the possibility of a united Slavic kingdom in the south, and when the
							Magyars attempted to force their language on the Croats, one of the Slav leaders
							hurled back at them: "You Magyars are only an island in an ocean of Slavs. Take heed
							that the waves do not rise and overwhelm you." Indeed, the Croats and Servians were,
							on the whole, friendly to the Vienna government, and ready to fight the
							Hungarians.

						Austria with Russia's aid, crushes the Hungarian rebellion, August,
							1849

						The emperor finally threw off the mask and, in a manifesto on October 3, declared the
							Hungarian parliament dissolved and its acts void. In December Windischgräz, the
							conqueror of 1 An account by an eyewitness is given in the Readings,
									Vol. II, p. 101.
							 Prague and Vienna, crossed into Hungary at the head of
							an army, and on January 5 entered Pesth. The war seemed for a time at an end, but the
							Hungarians rallied in a mighty national uprising against the Austrians, and on April
							19, 1849, they declared their complete and eternal separation from the Vienna
							government. They might have succeeded in maintaining their independence had not the
							Tsar, Nicholas I, placed his forces at the disposal of Francis Joseph. Attacked by an
							army of a hundred and fifty thousand Russians, who marched in from the east, the
							Hungarians were compelled, by the middle of August, to give up the contest. Austria
							took terrible vengeance upon the rebels. Thousands were shot, hanged, or imprisoned,
							and many, including Kossuth,1
							fled to the United States or elsewhere. The ancient kingdom of Hungary seemed about to
							be reduced to the state of an insignificant Austrian province, but, as we shall see,
							within less than twenty years she was able to secure substantially the coveted
							independence.
					

					

						AUSTRIA REGAINS HER POWER IN ITALY

						Defeat of the Italians under Charles Albert of Sardinia, July,
							1848

						48. Austria was no less successful in reëstablishing her power in
							Italy than in Hungary. The Italians had been unable to drive out the Austrian army
							which, under the indomitable general, Radetzky, had taken refuge in the so-called
							Quadrilateral, in the neighborhood of Mantua, where it was protected by four great
							fortresses. Charles Albert of Sardinia found himself, with the exception of a few
							volunteers, almost unsupported by the other Italian states. The best ally of Austria
							was the absence of united action upon the part of the Italians and the jealousy and
							indifference which they showed as soon as war had actually begun. Pius IX decided that
							his mission was one of peace, and that he could not afford to join in a war against
							Austria, the stanchest friend of the Roman Church. The king of Naples 1 Kossuth's version of the
								revolution is given in the Readings, Vol. II, pp. 103 sqq.
							 easily found a pretext for recalling the troops that
							public opinion had compelled him to send to the aid of the king of Sardinia. Charles
							Albert was defeated at Custozza, July 25, and compelled to sign a truce with Austria
							and to withdraw his forces from Lombardy.

						Policy of the Italian republicans

						The Italian republicans now attempted to carry out their own programme. Florence
							followed the example of Venice and proclaimed itself a republic. At Rome the liberal
							and enlightened Rossi, whom the Pope had placed at the head of affairs, was
							assassinated in November just as he was ready to promulgate his reforms. Pius IX fled
							from the city and put himself under the protection of the king of Naples. A
							constitutional assembly was then convoked by the revolutionists, and in February,
							1849, under the influence of Mazzini, it declared the temporal power of the Pope
							abolished, and proclaimed the Roman Republic.

						Austria defeats the king of Sardinia at Novara, March, 1849
						Accession of Victor Emmanuel II as king of Sardinia

						While these local insurrections were weakening the already distracted Italy, the
							truce between Piedmont and Austria expired, and in March, 1849, Charles Albert renewed
							the war which had been discontinued after the disaster at Custozza. The campaign
							lasted but five days and closed with his crushing and definitive defeat at Novara
							(March 23), which put an end to the hopes of Italian liberty for the time being.
							Charles Albert abdicated in favor of his son, Victor Emmanuel II, who was destined
							before many years to exchange the title of King of Sardinia for that of King of
							Italy.

						Austria rëestablishes the former conditions in Italy, except in
							Piedmont

						After bringing the king of Sardinia to terms, Austria pushed southward,
							rëestablishing the old order as she went. The ephemeral Italian republics were unable
							to offer any effectual resistance. The former rulers were restored in Rome, Tuscany,
							and Venice, and the new constitutions were swept away from one end of the peninsula to
							the other, except in Piedmont, the most important part of the king of Sardinia's
							realms. There Victor Emmanuel not only maintained the representative government1 introduced by his father, but,
							by summoning to his councils 1 Extracts from the Constitution are given
									in the Readings, Vol. II, p. 109.
							 men known throughout Italy for their liberal
							sentiments, he prepared to lead the Italian states once more against their foreign
							oppressors.
					

					

						OUTCOME OF THE REVOLUTION OF 1848
								IN GERMANY

						Question of the extent of the proposed German union
						Impossibility of a German state which should include both Austria and
							Prussia

						49. In Germany, as elsewhere, Austria profited by the dissensions
							among her opponents. On May 18, 1848, the National Assembly, consisting of nearly six
							hundred representatives of the German people, had met at Frankfort. It immediately
							began the consideration of a new constitution that should satisfy the popular longings
							for a great free German state, to be governed by and for the people. But what were to
							be the confines of this new German state? The confederation of 1815 did not include
							all the German inhabitants of Prussia, and did include the heterogeneous western
							possessions of Austria,-- Bohemia and Moravia, for example, where many of the people
							were Slavs. There was no hesitation in deciding that all the Prussian territories
							should be admitted to the new union. As it appeared impossible to leave out Austria
							altogether, the Assembly agreed to include those parts of her territory which had
							belonged to the confederation formed in 1815. This decision rendered the task of
							founding a real German state practically impossible; for the new union was to include
							two great European powers which might at any moment become rivals, since Prussia would
							hardly consent to be led forever by Austria. So heterogeneous a union could only
							continue to be, as it had been, a loose confederation of practically independent
							princes.

						The Assembly at Frankfort gives Austria time to recover

						The improbability that the Assembly at Frankfort would succeed in its undertaking was
							greatly increased by its unwise conduct. Instead of proceeding immediately to frame a
							new form of government, it devoted several months to the formulation of the general
							rights of the German citizen. Consequently by the time that the constitution itself
							came up for discussion, Austria had begun to regain her influence and was ready to  lead the conservative forces once more. She could rely
							upon the support of the rulers of southern Germany, for they were well satisfied with
							the old confederation and the independence that it gave them.

						The Assembly asks the king of Prussia to become emperor of
							Germany
						Frederick William IV refuses the imperial crown
						The National Assembly disperses and the old diet is restored

						In spite of her partiality for the old union, Austria could not prevent the Assembly
							from completing its new constitution. This provided that there should be an hereditary
							emperor at the head of the government, and that exalted office was tendered to the
							king of Prussia. Frederick William IV had been alienated from the liberal cause, which
							he had at first espoused, by the insurrection in Berlin. He was, moreover, timid and
							conservative at heart; he hated revolution and doubted whether the National Assembly
							had any right to confer the imperial title. He also greatly respected Austria, and
							felt that a war with her, which was likely to ensue if he accepted the crown, would be
							dangerous to Prussia. So he refused the imperial title and announced his rejection of
							the new constitution (April, 1849). This decision rendered the year's work of the
							National Assembly fruitless, and its members gradually dispersed. Austria now insisted
							upon the reestablishment of the old diet and Germany returned once more to its old
							ways.

						Prussia granted a constitution by Frederick William IV (January,
							1850)

						Yet amid the meager results of the revolution of 1848 there was one gain of great
							significance for the future of Germany; Prussia emerged from the turmoil of the period
							with a written constitution which established a legislative assembly and admitted a
							portion of the people to a share in the government. As we have seen, the news of the
							revolution in France caused great excitement in Berlin, and the king, fearing a
							continuance of violence, promised to convoke an assembly to formulate a constitution.
							This convention met at Berlin in May of the same year, and, amid prolonged debates,
							advocated many radical measures which displeased the king. It proposed to abolish the
							nobility and to strike from the royal title the phrase "King by the Grace of God."
							Meanwhile there was disorder in the quarters occupied by the working class, and on
							June 14 a mob 
							
								FREDERICK WILLIAM IV TAKING OATH TO SUPPORT THE CONSTITUTION, FEBRUARY 6,
									1850
							
							
							 stormed the arsenal. This situation frightened the king
							and he withdrew to Potsdam. He then ordered the assembly to adjourn to Brandenburg,
							and on its refusal, he dissolved it in spite of its protests. After getting rid of the
							popular assembly, the king, in 1849, submitted a constitution of his own to a more
							tractable convention of carefully selected subjects. This document, which was
							promulgated in January, 1850, remains, with some minor changes, the constitution of
							Prussia to-day.

						The Prussian constitution disappoints the liberals

						It proved, however, a great disappointment to the liberals, who had hoped for a
							really democratic form of government. It provides for a ministry, but makes it
							responsible to the king rather than to the diet. The latter comprises a house of
							lords-- consisting of princes, nobles, life peers selected by the king,
							representatives of the universities, and burgomasters of the large towns-- and a house
							of deputies.


						All men over twenty-five years of age may vote for the electors, who in turn select
							the deputies to the lower house, but the constitution carefully arranges to give the
							rich a predominating influence in the election. Those who stand first on the tax list,
							and pay together one third of the total taxes, are permitted to choose one third of
							the electors. The second third on the list also choose a third of the electors, and,
							finally, the great mass of the poorer people, whose small contributions to the
							treasury make up the remaining third of the revenue, are entitled to cast their votes
							for the remaining third of the electors assigned to the district. It may happen that a
							single wealthy man, if he pays a third of the taxes, has as much influence in electing
							representatives from his district as all the working people combined.
					

					

						REFERENCES
								The Austrian Empire on the Eve of the Revolution of 1848:
										SEIGNOBOS, Political History of Europe since
										1814, pp. 401-412; HAZEN, Europe since
											1815, pp. 152-159.
								The March Revolution in Austria: SEIGNOBOS, pp. 412-419; PHILLIPS, European
										History, 1815-1899, pp. 273-281; ANDREWS, 
									Historical Development of Modern Europe, Vol. I, pp. 363-373;
									HAZEN, pp. 169-180.
								Prussia and the Revolution of 1848: SEIGNOBOS, pp. 424-451; PHILLIPS, pp. 282-284; ANDREWS, Vol. I, pp. 379-384.
								Revolution and Restoration in Italy: SEIGNOBOS, pp. 335-346; ANDREWS, Vol. I, pp.
									384-395.
								The Frankfort Assembly and German Unity: SEIGNOBOS, pp. 391-399; ANDREWS, Vol. I, pp.
									418-448.
								General View of the March Revolution in Europe: FYFFE, History of Modern Europe, pp. 707-728;
									PHILLIPS, pp. 273-292.
								Reaction after the Revolution of 1848: FYFFE, pp. 738-823; PHILLIPS, pp. 293-331; HAZEN, pp. 181-186.
					
				

				

					

					CHAPTER XV
						THE UNIFICATION OF ITALY

					
						CAVOUR AND ITALIAN UNITY

						Italy in 1850

						50. The efforts of the Italian liberals to expel Austria from the
							peninsula and establish constitutional governments in the various Italian states had
							failed, and after the battle of Novara it seemed as if the former political conditions
							were to be restored. The king of Naples broke all the promises which he had made to
							his subjects, revoked the constitution which he had granted, and imprisoned, exiled,
							or in some cases executed the revolutionists. The Pope, with the assistance of France,
							Austria, Naples, and Spain, was able to destroy the Roman Republic which had been set
							up, and place the government again in the hands of the ecclesiastics. In northern
							Italy Austria was once more in control, and she found faithful adherents in the rulers
							of Modena, Parma, and Tuscany, who looked to her for continued support. The leading
							spirits of the revolution who had escaped prison or death fled to foreign countries to
							await a more auspicious opportunity to secure their ends, for they did not surrender
							the hope that Austria would sometime be driven from their country, and all the Italian
							states brought together in a federation, or perhaps united into a single monarchy or
							republic.

						Divergent views of those intent on unifying Italy

						However, those who, since the fall of Napoleon I, had been interested in promoting
							Italian independence and liberty differed among themselves as to the best way in which
							to make Italy a nation. There were the republicans, who became more and more disgusted
							with monarchy and believed that nothing could be accomplished until the various rulers
							should give way  to a great democratic republic, which
							should recall the ancient glories of Rome; others were confident that an enlightened
							Pope could form an Italian federation, of which he should be the head; lastly, there
							was a practical party, whose adherents placed their hopes in the king of Sardinia, who
							seemed to them to be the natural leader in the emancipation of Italy. Little as the
							revolution of 1848 had accomplished, it had at least given Sardinia a young and
							energetic king and a new constitution.

						Mazzini, 1805-1872

						Among the republican leaders the most conspicuous was the delicately organized and
							highly endowed Giuseppe Mazzini. Born in 1805, he had, as he tells us, become a
							republican from hearing his father discuss the achievements of the French Revolution,
							and had read eagerly the old French newspapers which he found hidden behind the
							medical books in his father's library. He joined the secret society of the Carbonari,
							and in 1830 was caught by the police and imprisoned in the fortress of Savona, west of
							Genoa. Here he arranged a secret code, which enabled him to keep in communication with
							the revolutionists.

						"Young Italy"

						Becoming disgusted with the inefficiency and the silly mystery of the Carbonari,
							Mazzini planned a new association, which he called "Young Italy." This aimed to bring
							about the regeneration of Italy through the education of young men in lofty republican
							principles. Mazzini had no confidence in princes or in foreign aid. He urged that all
							the Italians should be brought together into a single republic, for he feared that any
							form of federation would leave the country too weak to resist the constant
							interference of neighboring nations. Mazzini was not a man to organize a successful
							revolution, but he inspired the young Italians with almost religious enthusiasm for
							the cause of Italy's liberation.1 Still other patriots, however, who dreamed of a new Italy, placed their
							hopes, not in a republic in which the common man should have a voice in the conduct of
							the government, but in a federation 1 For Mazzini's doctrines, see Readings, Vol. II, pp. 115 sqq.
							 of princes under that most ancient of all Italian
							princes, the bishop of Rome.

						Progressive government of Victor Emmanuel

						The future, however, belonged neither to the republicans nor to the papal party, but
							to those who looked to the king of Sardinia to bring about the salvation of Italy.
							Only under his leadership was there any prospect of ousting Austria, and until that
							was done no independent union could possibly be formed. Practical men therefore began
							to turn to the young Victor Emmanuel, whose devotion to the cause of freedom in the
							war with Austria in 1848, and whose frank acceptance of the principles of
							constitutional government, distinguished him from all the other rulers of Italy. His
							father, Charles Albert, had granted Piedmont a constitution in 1848, which provided
							for a parliament with two houses and a responsible ministry. This constitution (which
							was later to become that of a united Italy) Victor Emmanuel maintained in spite of
							Austria's demands that he suppress it.

						Count Cavour, 1810-1861

						Victor Emmanuel was wise enough to call to his aid one of the most distinguished of
							modern statesmen, Count Cavour, who had long been an advocate both of constitutional
							government and of Italian unity.1 Cavour, however, did not believe that unity could be secured without
							foreign aid, for Sardinia was a rather insignificant kingdom when compared with the
							more important countries of Europe. It had a population of less than five millions and
							consisted of four distinct regions which were more or less hostile to one another. In
							view of this fact Cavour held that it was impossible to disregard the other powers of
							Europe, who had so long interfered freely in Italian affairs. He early declared,
							"Whether we like it or not, our destinies depend upon France; we must be her partner
							in the great game which will be played sooner or later in Europe."

						Sardinia joins France in the Crimean War

						An opportunity soon offered itself for Sardinia to become the ally of France. The
							Crimean War2 had broken out in
							1854 between England and France on the one side, and Russia on 1
								Readings, Vol. II, pp. 119 sqq.
							2 See
									below, pp. 457 sq.
							 the other, and in 1855 Cavour signed an offensive and
							defensive alliance with France and sent troops to her aid in the Crimea. This gave him
							an opportunity to take part in the European congress which met in Paris in 1856 to
							conclude a peace. There he warned the powers that Austrian control in northern Italy
							was a menace to the peace of Europe, and succeeded in enlisting the interest of
							Napoleon III in Italian affairs;-- it will be remembered that in his younger days the
							French emperor had sympathized with the Carbonari, and he had a number of Italian
							relatives who besought his aid in forwarding the cause of Italian unity.

						Position and policy of Napoleon III

						There were other reasons, too, why Napoleon was ready to consider intervention in
							Italy. Like his distinguished uncle, he was after all only a usurper. He knew that he
							could not rely upon mere tradition, but must maintain his popularity by deeds that
							should redound to the glory of France. A war with Austria for the liberation of the
							Italians, who like the French were a Latin race, would be popular, especially if
							France could thereby add a bit of territory to her realms and perhaps become the
							protector of the proposed Italian confederation. A conference was arranged between
							Napoleon and Cavour. Just what agreement was reached we do not know, but Napoleon no
							doubt engaged to come to the aid of the king of Sardinia, should the latter find a
							pretense for going to war with Austria. Should they together succeed in expelling
							Austria from northern Italy, the king of Sardinia was to reward France by ceding to
							her Savoy and Nice, which belonged to her geographically and racially.

						Victories of Victor Emmanuel and Napoleon III over Austria

						By April, 1859, Victor Emmanuel had managed to involve himself in a war with Austria.
							The French army promptly joined forces with the Piedmontese, defeated the Austrians at
							Magenta, and on June 8 Napoleon III and Victor Emmanuel entered Milan amid the
							rejoicings of the people. The Austrians managed the campaign very badly and were again
							defeated at Solferino (June 24).

						

						
							VICTOR EMMANUEL'S ENTRACE TO FLORENCE IN 1800
						

						
						

						Napoleon III unexpectedly consents to a truce

						Suddenly Europe was astonished to hear that a truce had been concluded and that the
							preliminaries of a peace had been arranged which left Venetia in Austria's hands, in
							spite of Napoleon III's boast that he would free Italy to the Adriatic. The French
							emperor was shocked, however, by the horrors of a real battlefield; he believed,
							moreover, that it would require three hundred thousand soldiers to drive the Austrians
							from their strongly fortified Quadrilateral, and he could not draw further upon the
							resources of France. Lastly he had begun to fear that, in view of the growing
							enthusiasm which was showing itself throughout the peninsula for Piedmont, there was
							danger that it might succeed in forming a national kingdom so strong as to need no
							French protector. By leaving Venetia in the possession of Austria and agreeing that
							Piedmont should only be increased by the incorporation of Lombardy and the little
							duchies of Parma and Modena, Napoleon III hoped to prevent the consolidation of Italy
							from proceeding too far. He had, however, precipitated changes which he was powerless
							to check. Italy was now ready to fuse into a single state.

						Parma, Modena, Tuscany, and the Romagna request to be annexed to
							Sardinia (August-September, 1859)

						During the months of August and September, 1859, the people in the three duchies of
							Parma, Modena, and Tuscany declared in favor of the permanent expulsion of their
							respective rulers and for annexation to the kingdom of Sardinia. An assembly in the
							Romagna repudiated the temporal rule of the Pope and also expressed the wish to be
							joined to Sardinia.

						Garibaldi, 1807-1882

						The king of Naples stubbornly refused either to form any kind of an alliance with the
							king of Sardinia or to grant his people a constitution. Garibaldi thereupon determined
							to bring him to terms and prepare the way for the union of southern Italy and Sicily
							with the expanding Sardinia. This bold sailor, warrior, and ardent revolutionist
							decided to carry on the work of unifying Italy on his own responsibility, and
							accordingly set sail from Genoa for Sicily in May, 1860, with a band of a thousand
							"Red Shirts," as his followers were called  from their
							rough costume.1 He gained an
							easy victory over the few troops that the king of the Two Sicilies was able to send
							against him, and made himself dictator of the island in the name of Victor Emmanuel.
							He then crossed over to the mainland, and after a slight skirmish he was received in
							Naples with enthusiasm on September 6.

						Napoleon III intervenes to prevent the annexation of Rome to the
							kingdom of Italy

						Garibaldi now proposed to march on Rome and proclaim the kingdom of Italy from the
							Quirinal. This would have imperiled all the previous gains, for Napoleon III could
							not, in view of the strong Catholic sentiment in France, possibly permit the
							occupation of Rome and the destruction of the political independence of the Pope. He
							agreed that Victor Emmanuel might annex the outlying papal possessions to the north
							and reestablish a stable government in Naples instead of Garibaldi's dictatorship. But
							Rome, the imperial city, with the territory immediately surrounding it, must be left
							to its old master. Victor Emmanuel accordingly marched southward and occupied Naples
							(October). Its king capitulated and all southern Italy became a part of the kingdom of
							Italy.

						In February, 1861, the first Italian parliament was opened at Turin, and the process
							of really amalgamating the heterogeneous portions of the new kingdom began. Yet the
							joy of the Italians over the realization of their hopes of unity and national
							independence was tempered by the fact that Austria still held one of the most famous
							of the Italian provinces, and that Rome, which typified Italy's former grandeur, was
							not included in the new kingdom.
					

					

						THE KINGDOM OF ITALY SINCE 1861

						Attitude of the Pope toward the new Italian kingdom

						51. The fact that Italian unification was not complete did not
							cause the patriots to lose hope. In a debate in the very first parliament held in the
							new kingdom of Italy, Cavour directed the thoughts and energies of the nation to the
								1
									Readings, Vol. II, p. 126.
							 recovery of the "Eternal City and the Queen of the
							Adriatic." Meanwhile Pius IX declared that the ruler of Sardinia had forgotten every
							religious principle, despised every right, trampled every law under foot, and deprived
							the head of the Church of the most flourishing portions of his legitimate possessions.
							He therefore excommunicated the king and his ministers and declared the new
							constitution to be a creation of revolution, which was a thing to be struck down like
							a mad dog wherever it showed itself. Any temptation, however, that the Italians may
							have felt to add Rome to the kingdom of Italy was discouraged by the intervention of
							Napoleon III, who, at the instigation of the French Catholics, sent a French garrison
							to Rome with a view to protecting the Pope from attack.

						How Venetia was added to the kingdom of Italy, 1866

						Help, however, soon came from an unexpected quarter. In the early months of 1866
							Prussia and Austria were on the eve of war, and in order to gain the support of Italy,
							Prussia concluded a treaty with Victor Emmanuel in April of that year. When the war
							came in July the Italians as well as the Prussians attacked Austria. The Italians were
							worsted in the battle of Custozza, but the Prussians more than made up for this defeat
							by their memorable victory at Sadowa. Thereupon Austria consented to cede Venetia to
							Napoleon III, with the understanding that he should transfer it to Italy. The efforts
							of the Italians to wrest Trent and Trieste from Austria failed, however, for their
							fleet was defeated, and they were forced to content themselves with Venetia, which
							they owed rather to the victories of others than to their own.

						Rome occupied by the king of Italy, 1870

						Four years later, when war broke out between France and Prussia, Napoleon III was
							forced to withdraw the French garrison from Rome, and Victor Emmanuel, having nothing
							further to fear from French intervention, dispatched an ultimatum to Pius IX demanding
							that he make terms with the kingdom of Italy. The Pope refused, whereupon the Italian
							troops blew open the gates of the city and, without further violence, took possession
							of Rome, while the Pope withdrew  to the Vatican and
							proclaimed himself the prisoner of the Italian government. The inhabitants, however,
							welcomed the invaders, and, by a vote of one hundred and thirty thousand to fifteen
							hundred, Rome and the remaining portions of the Papal States were formally annexed to
							the kingdom of Italy in January, 1871.

						Rome becomes the capital of the kingdom of Italy, 1871

						Italy was at last free and united from the Alps to the sea, and, as King Victor
							Emmanuel said at the opening of the parliament of 1871, "It only remains to make our
							country great and happy." The capital was transferred from Florence to Rome in 1871,
							and the king made his solemn entry into the city, announcing to the people, "We are at
							Rome and we shall remain here." The Sardinian constitution became the constitution of
							the kingdom of Italy.

						Position of the Pope

						It was a difficult problem to determine the relations which should exist between the
							new government and the head of the Christian Church, who for a thousand years had
							regarded the city of Rome as his capital. By a law of May, 1871, the Pope was declared
							to enjoy perfect freedom in all his spiritual functions, and his person was made
							sacred and inviolable like that of the king. He was to continue to enjoy the honors
							and dignity of a sovereign prince, and to send and receive diplomatic agents like any
							other sovereign. Within the trifling domain which was left to him,-- the Vatican and
							Lateran palaces, Castel Gandolfo and the gardens attached to them,-- he may live as an
							independent ruler, since no officer of the Italian government is permitted to enter
							these precincts on any business of State. In order to indemnify him decently for the
							loss of his possessions, the Italian government assigned him something over six
							hundred thousand dollars a year from the State treasury. The Pope, however, has not
							only always refused to accept this sum, but he persistently declines, down to the
							present day, to recognize the Italian government, and continues to consider himself
							the prisoner of a usurping power.1

						1 For
								Pius IX's protest, see Readings, Vol. II, p. 136.

						

						 

						
						

						Italy becomes a European power

						In order to maintain the dignity of her new position, Italy adopted the expensive
							policy of rapidly increasing her army and navy. Modern warships were constructed, the
							principle of universal military service was introduced, and the army reorganized on
							the Prussian model. This nearly doubled the military expenses and served to produce a
							deficit which amounted in 1887 to $83,000,000. In 1882 the government concluded the
							famous triple alliance with Germany and Austria-Hungary in which the powers guaranteed
							one another in the possession of their recently acquired territories. Alsace-Lorraine
							was assured to Germany, Bosnia and Herzegovina to Austria-Hungary, and Rome to
								Italy.1

						Italy's colonial policy in Africa

						Having secured unity at home, the Italians also turned their attention to winning
							colonial domains in the region of Abyssinia, near the outlet of the Red Sea. An army
							of occupation was dispatched thither in 1887, and after some fifteen years of
							intermittent warfare, treaties, negotiations, and massacres of the Italian troops by
							the natives, the Italians were able to make themselves masters of an area about twice
							the size of the state of Pennsylvania, inhabited by half a million of nomad peoples.
							More recently the Italians have waged war on the Turks for the purpose of securing
							dominion in northern Africa by the conquest of Tripoli.2

						Political parties in Italy

						It is clear that the old ideals of Cavour and King Victor Emmanuel have been left far
							behind. The heavy burden of taxation which the Italians have had to bear, in order to
							play the part of a European power and pay for the very expensive luxury of
							colonization, has roused deep discontent among the peasants and workingmen. The
							patriotic feelings which had nerved the people to heroic service in behalf of unity
							and independence gave way later to a spirit of selfishness in the various provinces,
							the interests of which were by no means identical, for the conditions in Naples were
							essentially different from those of Venetia or Piedmont. The republicans, who still
								1 This triple alliance
								was renewed in 1902.
							2 See
									below, p. 532.
							 clung to the ideas of Mazzini and Garibaldi, continued
							to oppose the monarchy, while the ideals of socialism, as elsewhere in Europe,
							appealed strongly to the workingmen. Lastly there were the defenders of the Pope's
							political power, who were among the bitterest enemies of the new government.

						Progress of Italy

						Notwithstanding these adverse circumstances, the kingdom has made remarkable progress
							during the last generation. Italy is rapidly becoming an industrial state, and to-day
							more than one third of its population is engaged in manufacturing and commercial
							pursuits. Silk, cotton, and woolen mills export large quantities of goods to foreign
							markets.

						Improvements in education

						Many laws have been passed for the improvement of the public schools, in the hope of
							diminishing the illiteracy which is a reproach to the kingdom. The republicans and
							socialists are not satisfied, however, with the amount of money voted for education;
							they admit that there has been a steady reduction in the number of persons over twenty
							years of age who are unable to read and write,-- from 73 per cent in 1862, to 52 per
							cent in 1901,-- but they contend that it is a disgrace for the nation to spend six or
							eight times as much a year on the army and navy as it does for the schools.1

						Burden of taxation

						Italy has suffered more from strikes and riots than her neighbors; this is doubtless
							partly attributable to the fact that the sources of discontent are particularly
							obvious. In proportion to its wealth, the Italian nation has the largest debt and the
							heaviest taxation of any country in Europe.2 There are the land tax, the income tax, the house tax, the
							inheritance tax, the stamp tax, the excise, the customs duties, in addition to the
							government monopolies of tobacco, lotteries, salt, and quinine. These are so
							distributed that the most burdensome of them fall on the workingmen and the peasants,
							who receive very low 1 In
								1901, 28 per cent of the population of northern Italy over six years of age could
								not read or write, and in southern Italy, from whence a large proportion of the
								American immigrants come, 70 per cent were illiterate.
							2
								Readings, Vol. II, p. 141.
							 wages, so that it is estimated that the poor pay over
							one half of the revenue of the government.

						The heaviest taxes are imposed on the necessities of life, such as grain and salt;
							and in times of scarcity this has been a source of serious bread riots in the towns.
							As for the salt, the government in 1900 was charging eight dollars for a quintal (two
							hundred and twenty pounds) of salt, which cost it only thirty cents. An Italian
							economist estimated in 1898 that the family of a Florentine workingman was forced to
							pay in local and national taxes no less than one fourth of its income, whereas in
							England the government demanded less than one twentieth of the earnings of a workman
							in a similar position.

						Assassination of King Humbert

						Victor Emmanuel died in 1878. His son and successor, Humbert I, although personally
							courageous and faithful to the constitution, was not the man to undertake the reforms
							necessary to relieve the prevailing discontent. He was not the controlling factor in
							the government either for or against reform; nevertheless the anarchists marked him as
							one of their victims, and on July 29, 1900, he was assassinated while distributing
							prizes at a great public meeting in Monza. He was succeeded by his son, Victor
							Emmanuel III, who has continued the general policy of his father.

						Emigration from Italy

						The discontent continues, and if emigration can be taken as in any sense a measure of
							it, the year after the assassination of Humbert was a period of exceptional distress.
							In 1888 Italy lost by emigration one hundred and nineteen thousand subjects; this had
							increased by 1900 to three hundred and fifty-two thousand, and in 1901 to over half a
							million. Italy had never come into possession of any of those new territories which
							her sons, Columbus, Cabot, and Verrazano, had laid claim to in the name of other
							European nations, and her acquisitions in Africa were entirely uninviting to her
							discontented peasants and workingmen. Those who leave Italy, therefore, go to foreign
							lands,-- to Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay, and Paraguay; while hundreds of thousands
							settle in the United States. In 1910, however, no less than 147,000 returned from
							abroad.

						

						This enormous emigration does not appear to relieve the discontent. In 1905 the
							strength of the socialists became so alarming that Pope Pius X instructed faithful
							Catholics to aid in the struggle against socialism by taking part in the elections,
							from which they had hitherto been admonished by the Church to abstain. Indeed it seems
							not impossible that the Pope may forget his grievance against the Italian State in his
							anxiety to combat the common enemy. Others, on the contrary, have reached the
							conclusion that the socialist party is an effective instrument for arousing the more
							conservative people to undertake important reforms.
					

					

						REFERENCES
								Mazzini and Young Italy: ANDREWS, Historical Development of Modern Europe, Vol. I, pp. 205-213; STILLMAN, The Union of Italy, 1815-1895, pp.
									44-48; HAZEN, Europe since 1815, pp.
									159-168.
								Piedmont and Cavour: ANDREWS, Vol. II,
									pp. 91-114; SEIGNOBOS, Political History of Europe
										since 1814, pp. 346-351; STILLMAN, pp. 242-280; CESARESCO, Cavour (Foreign Statesmen Series);
										FYFFE, History of Modern Europe, pp.
									866-876; HAZEN, pp. 215-225.
								Napoleon III and the Italian War: ANDREWS, Vol. II, pp. 115-129; SEIGNOBOS, pp. 792-796;
										PHILLIPS, European History, 1815-1899, pp.
									361-375; STILLMAN, pp. 281-297; FYFFE, pp.
									876-884; HAZEN, pp. 225-232.
								Establishment of Italian Unity: ANDREWS,
									Vol. II, pp. 130-145, 391-405; SEIGNOBOS, pp. 351-359; PHILLIPS, pp. 375-389; STILLMAN, pp. 297-358;
										FYFFE, pp. 886-908; HAZEN, pp.
									232-239.
								Development of the Italian Kingdom: ANDREWS, Vol. II, pp. 405-414; SEIGNOBOS, pp. 359-372;
										STILLMAN, pp. 359-393; HAZEN, pp.
									376-387.
								The Government of Italy: LOWELL, Governments and Parties in Continental Europe, Vol. I, pp. 146-231. 
					
				

				
					

					CHAPTER XVI
						FORMATION OF THE GERMAN EMPIRE AND THE AUSTRO-HUNGARIAN
						UNION

					
						PRUSSIA ASSUMES THE LEADERSHIP
								IN GERMANY

						Industrial Revolution in Germany

						52. The failure of the liberals to bring about the unity of Germany
							at the congress at Frankfort in 1848 was largely due to the tenacity with which the
							numerous German rulers clung to their sovereignty and independence. No fine theories
							of national union formulated by an assembly of lawyers and professors could destroy
							the spirit of state sovereignty. However, industry and commerce were silently but
							surely welding the German people into a nation. In 1835 the first railway line had
							been built, and the era of steam transportation inaugurated; a network of telegraph
							lines quickly brought the separate states into close and constant touch with one
							another; and the growth of machine industry compelled them to seek wider markets
							beyond their borders. A solid foundation for unity was thus laid by steam,
							electricity, and machinery, and the development of common interests.

						Commercial disadvantages of the division of Germany into practically
							independent states

						Statesmen as well as leaders in commerce and industry began, shortly after the
							settlement of 1815, to realize the disastrous effects of the existing division of
							Germany into numerous independent countries. Each of the thirty-eight states had its
							own customs line, which cut it off from its German neighbors as well as from
							foreigners. How this hampered trade can be readily seen by examining the map of
							Germany at that time. One who traveled in a straight line from Fulda to Altenburg, a
							distance of some one hundred and twenty-five English miles, crossed on the way
							thirty-four boundary lines and passed through  the
							dominions of nine sovereign and independent monarchs. A merchants' association
							complained to the diet of the Confederation in 1819 that in order to trade from
							Hamburg to Austria, or from Berlin to Switzerland, one had to cross ten states, study
							ten different customs systems, and pay ten tariff charges.

						The customs union (Zollverein)

						In January, 1834, a Zollverein, or tariff union, was formed, which
							was composed of seventeen states with a combined population of twenty-three millions.
							Goods were allowed to pass freely from one of these states to another, while the
							entire group was protected against all outsiders by a common tariff frontier. Austria,
							after some hesitation, decided not to join this union, but other German states were
							from time to time compelled by their own interests to do so.

						Accession of William I, 1858 (1861)

						As the center of this commercial reorganization of Germany, Prussia gathered strength
							for the coming conflict with her great rival, Austria, and with the accession of
							William I in 1858,1 a new era
							dawned for Prussia. A practical and vigorous man was now at the helm, whose chief aim
							was to expel Austria from the German Confederation, and out of the remaining states to
							construct a firm union under the leadership of Prussia, which would then take her
							place among the most powerful nations of Europe. He saw that war must come sooner or
							later, and therefore made it his first business to develop the military resources of
							his realms.

						The strengthening of the Prussian army

						The German army, which owes much of its fame to the reforms of William I, is so
							extraordinary a feature of Europe to-day that its organization merits attention. Fifty
							years before, the necessity of expelling Napoleon had led Scharnhorst to revolutionize
							the military strength of the kingdom by making military service a universal obligation
							for all healthy male citizens, who were to be trained in the standing army in all the
							essentials of discipline, and then retired to the reserve, ready 1 He ruled until 1861 as regent for his
								brother, Frederick William IV, who had become incapacitated by disease.
							 for service at need. The first thing that William I did
							was to increase the annual levy from forty to sixty thousand men, and to see that all
							the soldiers remained in active service three years. They then passed into the
							reserve, according to the existing law, where for two years more they remained ready
							at any time to take up arms should it be necessary. William wished to increase the
							term of service in the reserve to four years. In this way the State would claim seven
							of the years of early manhood and 
								The Zollverein
							 have an effective army of four hundred thousand, which would permit it to
							dispense with the service of those who were approaching middle life. The lower house
							of the Prussian parliament refused, however, to make the necessary appropriations for
							thus increasing the strength of the army.

						Bismark and his struggle with the Prussian parliament

						The king proceeded, nevertheless, with his plan, and in 1862 called to his side the
							most commanding figure among the statesmen of modern times, Otto von Bismarck. The new
							minister  conceived a scheme for humiliating Austria and
							exalting Prussia, which he carried out with startling precision. He could not,
							however, reveal it to the lower chamber; he would, indeed, scarcely hint its nature to
							the king himself. In defiance of the lower house and of the newspapers, he carried on
							the strengthening of the army without formal appropriations, on the theory that the
							constitution had made no provision in case of a deadlock between the upper and lower
							house, and that consequently the king, in such a case, might exercise his former
							absolute power.1 In one of his
							first speeches in parliament he said with brutal frankness, "The great questions of
							the time are to be decided not by speeches and votes of majorities, but by blood and
							iron." For a time it seemed as if Prussia was returning to a pure despotism, for there
							was assuredly no more fundamental provision of the constitution than the right of the
							people to control the granting of the taxes. Yet Bismarck was eventually fully
							exonerated by public opinion, and it was generally agreed in Germany that the end had
							amply justified the means.

						The Schleswig-Holstein affair

						Prussia now had a military force that appeared to justify the hope of victory should
							she undertake a war with her old rival. In order to bring about the expulsion of
							Austria from the Confederation, Bismarck took advantage of a knotty problem that had
							been troubling Germany, known as the Schleswig-Holstein affair. The provinces of
							Schleswig and Holstein, although inhabited largely by Germans, had for centuries
							belonged to the king of Denmark. They were not considered a part of Denmark, however,
							any more than Hanover had been a part of Great Britain. But in 1847 the king of
							Denmark proclaimed that he was going to incorporate these provinces into the Danish
							kingdom in spite of the large proportion of Germans in the population. This aroused
							great indignation throughout Germany. The controversy over the relation of these
							provinces to Denmark continued, and finally, in 1863, Schleswig was definitely united
							with the Danish kingdom.

						1
								Readings, Vol. II, p. 143.

						

						Bismarck's audacious plan for the expulsion of Austria from
							Germany

						
							"From this time the history of Germany is the history of the profound and audacious
								statecraft and of the overmastering will of Bismarck; the nation, except through its
								valor on the battlefield, ceases to influence the shaping of its own fortunes. What
								the German people desired in 1864 was that Schleswig-Holstein should be attached,
								under a ruler of its own, to the German Federation as it then existed; what Bismarck
								intended was that Schleswig-Holstein, itself incorporated more or less directly with
								Prussia, should be made the means of the destruction of the existing federal system,
								and of the expulsion of Austria from Germany. . . . The German people desired one
								course of action; Bismarck had determined on something totally different; with
								matchless resolution and skill he bore down all the opposition of people and of the
								[European] courts, and forced a reluctant nation to the goal which he himself had
								chosen for it."1

						Character of Bismarck

						Bismarck was forty-seven years old when, in 1862, he was called to the presidency of
							the Prussian cabinet, and he had already won a reputation as a shrewd diplomat and an
							ardent champion of the Prussian monarchy. He was an aristocrat of the aristocrats, and
							his policy was akin to that of the benevolent despots of the eighteenth century;
							Germany was to be united not by the will and the cooperation of the German people, but
							only by the aggrandizement of Prussia and the exaltation of the Prussian king. Firmly
							believing in the destiny of the German nation and justifying the means by the end,
							Bismarck proved himself just the leader needed to weld the nation by the heat and
							violence of war.
					

					

						WAR OF 1866 AND THE FORMATION OF
								THE NORTH GERMAN FEDERATION

						The working out of Bismarck's plan
						Prussia declares the German Confederation dissolved, June,
							1866

						53. Bismarck's first step was to invite Austria to cooperate with
							Prussia in settling the Schleswig-Holstein difficulty. As Denmark refused to make any
							concessions, the two powers 1 Fyffe, History of Modern
										Europe, pp. 936-937.
							 declared war, defeated the Danish army, and forced the
							king of Denmark to cede Schleswig-Holstein to the rulers of Prussia and Austria
							jointly (October, 1864). They were to make such disposition of the provinces as they
							saw fit. There was now no trouble in picking a quarrel with Austria. In April, 1866,
							Italy agreed that, should the king of Prussia take up arms during the following three
							months with the aim of reforming the German union, it too would immediately declare
							war on Austria, with the hope, of course, of obtaining Venice.1 The relations between Austria and Prussia
							grew more and more strained, until finally in June, i866, Austria induced the diet to
							call out the forces of the Confederation for the purpose of making war on Prussia.
							Prussia's representative in the diet declared that this act put an end to the existing
							union. He accordingly submitted Prussia's scheme for the reformation of Germany and
							withdrew from the diet.

						War declared between Austria and Prussia

						On June 14 war was declared between Austria and Prussia. With the exception of
							Mecklenburg and the small states of the north, all Germany sided with Austria against
							Prussia. Bismarck immediately demanded of the rulers of the larger North German
							states-- Hanover, Saxony, and Hesse-Cassel-- that they stop their warlike preparations
							and agree to accept Prussia's plan of reform. On their refusal, Prussian troops
							immediately occupied these territories and war actually began.

						Prussia wins the battle of Sadowa, July 3, 1866

						So admirable was the organization of the Prussian army that, in spite of the
							suspicion and even hatred which the liberal party in Prussia entertained for the
							despotic Bismarck, all resistance on the part of the states of the north was promptly
							prevented; Austria was miserably defeated on July 3 in the decisive battle of
							Königgrätz, or Sadowa,2 and
							within three weeks after the breaking off of diplomatic relations the war was
							practically over. Austria's influence was at an end, and Prussia had won the right to
							dictate to the rest of Germany.

						1 See above, p. 317.

						2 Bismarck's account of the
							battle is given in the Readings, Vol. II, p. 147.

						

						
							OPENING THE REICHSTAG OF THE NORTH GERMAN CONFEDERATION
						

						
						

						The North German Federation

						Prussia was aware that the larger states south of the river Main were not ripe for
							the union that she desired. She therefore organized a so-called North German
							Federation, which included all the states north of the Main. Prussia had seized the
							opportunity to increase considerably her own boundaries and round out her territory by
							annexing the North German states (with the exception of Saxony) which had opposed her 
								Prussia's Annexations in 1866
							 in the war. Hanover, Hesse-Cassel, Nassau, and the free city of Frankfort,
							along with the duchies of Schleswig and Holstein, all became Prussian.

						Requirements of the proposed constitution

						Prussia, thus enlarged, summoned the lesser states about her to confer upon a
							constitution that should accomplish four ends. First, it must give to all the people
							of the territory included in the new union, regardless of the particular state in
							which they lived, a voice in the government. A popular assembly satisfied this demand.
							Secondly, the predominating position of Prussia  must be
							secured; but at the same time, thirdly, the self-respect of the other monarchs whose
							lands were included must not be sacrificed. In order to accomplish this double purpose
							the king of Prussia was made "president" of the federation but not its sovereign. The
							chief governing body was the Federal Council (Bundesrath). In this
							each ruler, however small his state, and each of the three free towns-- Hamburg,
							Bremen, and Lübeck-- had at least one vote; thus it was arranged that the other rulers
							should not become subjects of the king of Prussia. The real
							sovereign of the North German Federation was not the king of Prussia, but "all of the
							united governments." The votes were distributed as in the old diet, so that Prussia,
							with the votes of the states that she annexed in 1866, enjoyed seventeen votes out of
							forty-three. Lastly, the constitution was so arranged that when the time came for the
							southern states-- Bavaria, Würtemberg, Baden, and South Hesse-- to join the union, it
							would be adapted to the needs of the widened empire.
					

					

						THE FRANCO-PRUSSIAN WAR AND THE FOUNDATION OF
								THE GERMAN EMPIRE

						Foreign policy of Napoleon III

						54. No one was more chagrined by the abrupt termination of the war
							of 1866 and the victory of Prussia than Napoleon III. He had hoped that both
							combatants might be weakened by a long struggle, and that in the end he might have an
							opportunity to arbitrate, and incidentally to gain something for France, as had
							happened after the Italian war. His disappointment was the more keen because he was
							troubled at home by the demands of the liberals for reform, and had recently suffered
							a loss of prestige among his people by the failure of a design for getting a foothold
							in Mexico.1 Napoleon was 1 This Mexican episode is one
								of the most curious incidents in the checkered career of Napoleon III. He desired to
								see the Latin peoples of the western world develop into strong nations to offset the
								preponderance of the Anglo-Saxons in North America; and furthermore, like his uncle,
								he cherished imperial designs outside of the confines of Europe. What appeared to
								him to be an excellent opportunity to build up a Latin empire under his protection
								was afforded by disorders in Mexico. In the summer of 1861, at the opening of the
								great Civil War in America, the republic of Mexico suspended payments on its debts.
								England, France, and Spain made a joint demonstration against Mexico in favor of
								their subjects who held Mexican bonds. Napoleon then entered into negotiations with
								some Mexicans who wanted to overthrow the republic, and he offered to support the
								establishment of an empire if they would choose as their ruler Archduke Maximilian,
								brother of the Austrian emperor, to which they agreed. Little realizing how few of
								the Mexican people wanted him for their ruler, Maximilian landed in his new realm in
								1864, strongly supported by French troops. As soon as the Civil War in the United
								States was brought to a close, the American government protested, in the name of the
								Monroe Doctrine, against foreign intervention in Mexican affairs, and as Napoleon
								III was in no position to wage war with so formidable a power, he withdrew his
								soldiers and advised Maximilian to abdicate and return to Europe. The new emperor,
								however, refused to leave Mexico, and shortly afterwards he was captured and shot
								(June, 1867). The whole affair cost France a great deal of money and the lives of
								many soldiers, and discredited Napoleon's ability as a statesman.
							 further chagrined by his failure to secure the grand
							duchy of Luxemburg, which its sovereign, the king of Holland, would have sold to him
							if it had not been for the intervention of Prussia. In other diplomatic negotiations
							also it was believed that Napoleon had been outwitted by Bismarck, and a war fever
							developed both in France and Germany, which was fostered by the sensational press of
							Paris and Berlin. Frenchmen began to talk about "avenging Sadowa," and the Prussians
							to threaten their "hereditary enemy" with summary treatment for past wrongs.

						Question of the succession to the throne of Spain

						In the midst of this irritation a pretext for war was afforded by the question of the
							Spanish throne then vacant as the result of the expulsion of Queen Isabella in 1868.
							After the flight of the queen a national Cortes was summoned to determine upon a form
							of government, and after long deliberations it finally tendered the crown to Leopold
							of Hohenzollern, a very distant relative of William I of Prussia. This greatly excited
							the journalists of Paris, who loudly protested that it was only an indirect way of
							bringing Spain under the influence of Prussia. The French minister of foreign affairs
							declared that the candidacy was an attempt to reestablish the empire of Charles V.
							This belief was entirely unfounded, for, in spite of the apprehensions of the French,
							the mass of the Spanish people were more anxious  to see
							the restoration of the Bourbon line in the person of Alfonso, the son of Queen
							Isabella, than they were to have as their ruler Leopold of Hohenzollern, or Amadeus
							(the son of the king of Italy), who was finally induced in 1870 to accept the
								crown.1

						Attitude of France toward candidacy of Leopold of Hohenzollern
						France declares war on Prussia, July 19, 1870

						But the war parties in France and Prussia were looking for a pretext for a conflict,
							and consequently the candidacy of Prince Leopold was given an exaggerated importance.
							In June, 1870, with the consent of the king of Prussia, Leopold accepted the proffered
							crown; but when the French government protested he withdrew his acceptance, also with
							the approbation of the Prussian king. The affair now seemed to be closed, but the
							French ministry was not satisfied with the outcome and demanded that the king of
							Prussia should pledge himself that the candidacy should never be renewed. This William
							refused to do, and Bismarck, with gleeful malice,2 so edited the account given to the German newspapers of
							the refusal as to make it appear that the French ambassador had insulted King William,
							and had been rebuffed. This excited the "jingoes" in both countries to a state of
							frenzy, and although the war party in France was a small minority, that country
							nevertheless declared war against Prussia on July 19, 1870.

						Disastrous opening of the war for France

						The French minister proclaimed that he entered the conflict with a "light heart," but
							it was not long before he realized the 1 Amadeus was an enlightened prince, and endeavored to rule
								according to the wishes of his new subjects, but he found himself opposed by the
								Carlists, who supported a grandson of Don Carlos as their candidate; by the clergy,
								who opposed the new constitution because it granted religious liberty; and by the
								moderate royalists, who favored placing Isabella's son, Alfonso, on the throne.
								After little more than two years' experience, Amadeus laid down his crown, and the
								revolutionists proclaimed a republic (February 12, 1873) which lasted only about a
								year. At last, in 1875, the crown was given to Isabella's son, who took the title of
								Alfonso XII, and after a short civil war with the Carlists a new constitution was
								drawn up in 1876 providing for a parliament of two houses-- a senate composed of
								grandees, appointed dignitaries, and elected persons, and a lower house of
								representatives chosen by popular suffrage. (By the electoral law of 1890 all male
								Spaniards twenty-five years of age are entitled to vote.) This is the present
								constitution of Spain. Alfonso XII died in 1885, and was succeeded by the present
								king, Alfonso XIII, who was born a few months after his father's death.
							2 For Bismarck's version
								of the affair, see Readings, Vol. II, pp. 158 sqq.
							
							
							
							
							 folly of the headlong plunge. The hostility which the
							South German states had hitherto shown toward Prussia had encouraged Napoleon III to
							believe that so soon as the French troops should gain their first victory, Bavaria,
							Würtemberg, and Baden would join him. But that first victory was never won. War had no
							sooner been declared than the Germans laid all jealousy aside and ranged themselves as
							a nation against a national assailant. The French army, moreover, was neither well
							equipped nor well commanded. The Germans hastened across the Rhine and within a few
							days were driving the French before them. In a series of bloody encounters about Metz,
							one of the French armies was defeated and finally shut up within the fortifications of
							the town. Seven weeks had not elapsed after the beginning of the war before the
							Germans had captured a second French army and made a prisoner of the emperor himself
							in the great battle of Sedan, September 1, 1870.

						Siege of Paris and close of Franco-Prussian War

						The Germans then surrounded and laid siege to Paris. Napoleon III had been completely
							discredited by the disasters about Metz and Sedan, and consequently the empire was
							abolished and France for the third time was declared a republic.1 In spite of the energy which the new
							government showed in arousing the nation against the invaders, prolonged resistance
							was impossible. The capital surrendered on January 28, 1871, after a memorable siege,
							and an armistice was concluded.

						Cession of Alsace and Lorraine to Germany

						In arranging the treaty of peace Bismarck deeply humiliated France by requiring the
							cession of two French provinces which had formerly belonged to Germany,-- Alsace and
							north-eastern Lorraine.2 In
							this way France was cut off from the 1 See below, Chap. XVIII.
							2 Alsace had, with
								certain reservations,-- especially as regarded Strassburg and the other free
								towns,-- been ceded to the French king by the treaty of Westphalia at the close of
								the Thirty Years' War. Louis XIV disregarded the reservations and seized Strassburg
								and the other towns (1681), thus annexing the whole region to France. The duchy of
								Lorraine had fallen to France in 1766, upon the death of its last duke. It had
								previously been regarded as a part of the Holy Roman Empire. In 1871 less than a
								third of the original duchy of Lorraine, together with the fortified city of Metz,
								was ceded back to Germany.
							 Rhine, and the crest of the Vosges Mountains was
							established as its boundary. The Germans further exacted an enormous indemnity for the
							unjustifiable attack which the French had made upon them. This was fixed at five
							billion francs, and German troops were to occupy France till it was paid. The French
							people made pathetic sacrifices to hasten the payment of this indemnity, in order that
							the country might be freed from the presence of the hated Germans. The bitter feeling
							of the French for the Germans dates from this war, and the longing for revenge has by
							no means disappeared. For many years after the war a statue in Paris, representing the
							lost city of Strassburg, was draped in mourning.

						Proclamation of the German Empire, January 1, 1871

						The attack of France upon Prussia in 1870, instead of hindering the development of
							Germany, as Napoleon III had hoped it would, only served to consummate the work of
							i866. The South German states,-- Bavaria, Würtemberg, Baden, and South Hesse,-- having
							sent their troops to fight side by side with the Prussian forces, consented after
							their common victory over France to join the North German Federation. By a series of
							treaties it was agreed, among other things, that the name "North German Federation"
							should give way to that of "German Empire," and that the king of Prussia, as president
							of the union, should be given the title of German Emperor. Surrounded by German
							princes, William, king of Prussia, and president of the North German Federation, was
							proclaimed German Emperor in the former palace of the French kings at Versailles,
							January 18, 1871. The long conflict for unity was now at an end; it only remained for
							Germany to assert its place among the great nations of the world.
					

					

						AUSTRIA-HUNGARY SINCE 1866

						Problems facing Austria in 1866

						55. The defeat at Sadowa and the formation of the North German
							Federation had served to cut off Austria from Germany altogether, and she was left to
							solve as best she might the problems of adjusting her relations with Hungary,
							reconciling the  claims of the various races within her
							borders, arid meeting the demands of the liberals for constitutional government and
							reforms in general.

						The Austro-Hungarian monarchy established in 1867

						An attempt had been made in 1861 to unite all the possessions of Francis Joseph into
							a single great empire with its parliament at Vienna, but the Hungarians obstinately
							refused to take part in the deliberations, and, by encouraging the Bohemians, Poles,
							and Croats to withdraw, brought the plan to naught.

						Soon after the defeat of Austria by Prussia in 1866 the relations between the
							Austrian Empire and the kingdom of Hungary were finally settled by a compromise (Ausgleich, as the Germans call it).1 Francis Joseph agreed to regard himself as ruling over two
							separate and practically independent states: (1) the Austrian Empire, which includes
							seventeen provinces,-- Upper and Lower Austria, Bohemia, Moravia, Carinthia, Carniola,
							and the rest; and (2) the kingdom of Hungary, including Croatia and Slavonia. While
							each of these had its own constitution and its own parliament, one at Vienna, and the
							other at Pesth, and managed its own affairs under the guidance of its own ministers,
							the two governments, in dealing with foreign nations, declaring war, and concluding
							treaties, were to appear as one state, to be called Austria-Hungary. They were to have
							a common army and navy and to be united commercially by using the same coins, weights,
							and measures, and agreeing upon a common tariff. Although this particular kind of
							union between two states was a new thing in Europe, it has so far proved a permanent
							one.

						The government of the Austro-Hungarian dualism consists of a common
							sovereign, three ministries and the Delegations

						In order to manage the affairs common to the two states, their joint monarch appoints
							three ministers,-- of foreign affairs, war, and finance. These ministers are
							responsible to a curious kind of joint parliament, called the Delegations, one of which is chosen by the Austrian parliament, and the other
							by the Hungarian diet. These Delegations consist of sixty members each and hold their
							sessions alternately at Vienna and at Pesth, 1 See Readings, Vol.
									II, pp. 165 sqq. for extracts.
							 in order to avoid all jealousy. They sit as separate
							bodies, one carrying on its discussions in German and the other in Hungarian, and
							ordinarily communicate with each other in writing, except in cases of disagreement,
							when the two Delegations come together and vote as a single body, but without
							debate.

						Continued difficulties due to the mixture of races

						The problem of satisfying the various races, with their differing languages and their
							national aspirations, has been the most characteristic difficulty which both Austria
							and Hungary have had to face. There were in Austria in 1867, 7,100,000 Germans,
							4,700,000 Czechs, 2,440,000 Poles (in Galicia), 2,580,000 Ruthenians (in eastern
							Galicia), 1,190,000 Slovenians (principally in Carniola), 520,000 Croats (in Dalmatia
							and Istria), 580,000 Italians (in Trieste and southern Tyrol), and 200,000 Roumanians
							(in Bukovina). The Germans held that the German town of Vienna, the old seat of the
							court, was the natural center of all the provinces, and that the German language,
							since it was spoken more generally than any other in the Austrian provinces and was
							widely used in scientific and literary works, should be given the preference
							everywhere by the government. The Czechs and Poles, on their part, longed for their
							old freedom and independence, wished to use their own language, and constantly
							permitted their dislike of the Germans to influence their policy in the parliament at
								Vienna.1

						Power of the Church reduced in Austria

						The three most noteworthy achievements in Austria during the past fifty years have
							been the establishment of a constitutional system in 1867, the readjustment of the
							relations between Church and State in 1867-1868, and the extension of the suffrage in
							1906. After the settlement of 1867 the German liberal party forced through the
							Austrian parliament a series of laws which restricted the time-honored prerogatives of
							the Catholic clergy.2 Every
							individual was given the right to choose his own religion and to worship as he
							pleased. Government 1 In
								the newspapers we read of the "Young" Czechs, who agree with the "Old" Czechs in
								working for Bohemian independence, but are more progressive than their
								fellow-representatives.
							2
									Readings, Vol. II, pp. 169 sqq.
							 offices and positions in the schools were thrown open
							to all citizens, regardless of creed; the State, not the Church, was thereafter to
							manage the schools; civil marriage was instituted for those who did not wish to have a
							priest officiate at their marriage, as well as for those whom the priests refused to
							unite. The Pope vigorously condemned the constitutional laws of 1867, which had
							guaranteed complete religious liberty; the laws of 1868 he pronounced "abominable,"
							and rejected them as null and void. Nevertheless the reforms which Joseph II had
							striven to introduce before the French Revolution were at last secured.

						Question of the suffrage

						Austria, like the other European states, has been profoundly affected by the
							Industrial Revolution. The ever-increasing numbers of workingmen began to urge that
							the old system of voting, which permitted the richer classes to choose the members of
							the parliament, should be changed so as to allow the great mass of the people to send
							representatives to Vienna.1 At
							last, in 90o6, the suffrage was extended to all males over twenty-four years of age.
							The first election under the new law took place in May, 1907.2 The socialists gained over fifty seats, many
							of which they secured at the expense of the Czechs. But, on the other hand, the
							conservative clerical party also gained. It remains to be seen whether the various
							little parties formed on race issues will give way in time to those representing grave
							economic and social problems such as exist in the other European states.

						The Magyars predominate in Hungary

						The history of Hungary since 1867 has resembled that of Austria in some respects. The
							Magyars have, however, been more successful than the Germans in maintaining their
							supremacy. The population of Hungary proper in 1900 was 1 The system adopted in 1867, according to
								which the local diets of the provinces elected the deputies, was later abolished,
								and the right to select the 425 deputies was put into the hands of four classes: the
								landowners were assigned 85 seats; the chambers of trade and commerce, 21; the
								towns, 118; the rural districts, 129. The adult males were permitted to choose the
								remaining 72.
							2
								Readings, Vol. II, pp. 171 sqq.
							 about seventeen millions, of which the Magyars formed
							something over half. Croatia and Slavonia had together less than two and a half
							millions. In the lower house of the diet four hundred and thirteen deputies are chosen
							in Hungary, and only forty in Croatia and Slavonia. Magyar is naturally the language
							chiefly used in the diet, and by government officials, and railway employees, and in
							the universities. The government encourages the migration of the people to the cities,
							especially to Budapest, for it is the rapidly growing cities which are the strongholds
							of the Magyars, and the number of those who speak their language is steadily
							increasing.

						Race discontent in Hungary

						Croatia and Slavonia do not consider that they have their proper weight in the
							national parliament at Budapest. The Servians are discontented, and some of the
							extremists among them would like to have the region they inhabit annexed to the
							kingdom of Servia; while the Roumanians look longingly to the independent kingdom of
							Roumania, of which they feel they should form a part.1
					

					

						REFERENCES
								The Zollverein: SEIGNOBOS, Political History of Europe since 1814, pp. 451-454; ANDREWS, Historical Development of Modern Europe, Vol. I,
									pp. 252-257; HAZEN, Europe since 1815, pp.
									147-149.
								Bismarck and the Rise of Prussia: SEIGNOBOS, pp. 456-466; ANDREWS, Vol. II, pp. 189-213;
										PHILLIPS, Modern History, pp. 390-407; FYFFE, History of Modern Europe, pp. 909-920;
									HAZEN, pp. 240-256.
								The Schleswig-Holstein Question and Dissolution of the
										Confederation: SEIGNOBOS, pp. 466-472; ANDREWS, Vol. II, pp. 213-252; PHILLIPS, pp. 407-448;
										FYFFE, pp. 934-963; HAZEN, pp.
									256-268.
								Formation of the North German Federation: SEIGNOBOS, pp. 472-481; ANDREWS, Vol. II, pp. 252-261;
									HAZEN, pp. 268-271.
								The Establishment of the Empire: SEIGNOBOS, pp. 482-484; ANDREWS, Vol. II, pp. 261-277;
										PHILLIPS, pp. 449-485; FYFFE, pp.
									968-1010; HAZEN, pp. 303-306.
								1 For
										the annexation of Bosnia and Herzegovina see below, p. 517.
								
								Formation of Austria-Hungary: SEIGNOBOS,
									pp. 518-529; ANDREWS, Vol. II, pp. 278-296; LEGER, History of Austria-Hungary, pp. 572-588; HAZEN, pp. 388-396.
								Political Development of Austria-Hungary: SEIGNOBOS, pp. 529-553; ANDREWS, Vol. II, pp. 415-435;
										LEGER, pp. 589-637; HAZEN, pp.
									396-405.
								The Government of Austria and Hungary: LOWELL, Governments and Parties in Continental Europe,
									Vol. II, pp. 70-179. Spain after the Revolution of 1820: SEIGNOBOS, pp. 293-308; HAZEN, pp.
									564-569.
								The Spanish Revolution of 1868: SEIGNOBOS, pp. 308-315. The Reëstablishment of the Spanish
										Monarchy: SEIGNOBOS, pp. 315-325; HAZEN, pp. 569-575.
					
				

				
					

					CHAPTER XVII
						THE GERMAN EMPIRE

					
						THE GERMAN CONSTITUTION

						The constitution of the German Empire

						56. It will be remembered that the constitution of the North German
							Federation had been drawn up in 1866 with the hope that the southern states, Bavaria,
							Würtemberg, Baden, and South Hesse, would later join the union; consequently little
							change was necessary when the empire was established four years later. The title of
							German Emperor (Deutscher Kaiser) was bestowed on King William I of
							Prussia and his successors, but it did not carry with it any authority which he had
							not enjoyed as president of the North German Federation. In the empire, as in the
							federation, the sovereignty is not vested in the ruler, but in the Bundesrath, or Federal Council, which is made up of representatives of the
							twenty-two monarchs and the three free cities included in the union.1 The emperor does not possess the right to
							veto laws passed by the imperial parliament, but nevertheless he exercises many of the
							powers which would naturally fall to a monarch. He appoints and dismisses the imperial
							chancellor,-- the chief minister of the empire,-- as well as other imperial officials.
							Though he cannot declare an offensive war without the consent of the Bundesrath, he
							commands the unconditional obedience of all German soldiers and sailors, and appoints
							the chief officers in the army and all those in the navy.2

						The Bundesrath, or Federal Council

						The Bundesrath, like the Senate of the United States, represents the various states
							of the union. Unlike the American 1 See above, pp. 329
								sq.
							2 As king of Prussia the
								emperor controls seventeen votes in the Bundesrath, which would usually enable him
								to block measures which he disapproves.
							 system, the various states in the German union are not
							given equal representation in the Bundesrath; Prussia, which includes more than one
							half of the territory and population of the empire, sends seventeen delegates, Bavaria
							six, Saxony four, Würtemberg four, Baden and Hesse three each, Mecklenburg-Schwerin
							and Brunswick two each, and all the others one each. The free cities and
							Alsace-Lorraine are also represented in the Bundesrath.1

						The Reichstag, or House of Representatives

						The democratic element in the government is the Reichstag, or House
							of Representatives, which consists of about four hundred members distributed among the
							various states according to their population. The constitution provides that every
							German citizen twenty-five years of age may vote for members of the Reichstag. The
							representatives are elected for a term of 1 COMPOSITION OF THE GERMAN EMPIRE
							

								
									NAMES OF THE STATES
									POPULATION IN DEC. 1, 1900 (IN ROUND NUMBERS)
									NUMBERS OF MEMBERS IN THE BUNDESRATH
									PRESENT NUMBER OF REPRESENATIVES IN THE REICHSTAG
								

								
									Kingdom of Prussia
									40,100,000
									17
									236
								

								
									Kingdom of Bavaria
									6,800,000
									6
									48
								
								
									Kingdom of Saxony
									4,800,000
									4
									23
								
								
									Kingdom of Würtemberg
									2,400,000
									4
									17
								
								
									Grandduchy of Baden
									2,100,000
									3
									14
								
								
									Grandduchy of Hesse
									1,200,000
									3
									9
								
								
									Grandduchy of Mecklenburg-Schwerin
									639,000
									2
									6
								
								
									Grandduchy of Saxe-Weimar
									417,000
									1
									3
								
								
									Grandduchy of Mecklenburg-Strelitz
									106,000
									1
									1
								
								
									Grandduchy of Oldenburg
									482,000
									1
									3
								
								
									Duchy of Brunswick
									494,000
									2
									3
								
								
									Duchy of Saxe-Meiningen
									278,000
									1
									2
								
								
									Duchy of Saxe-Altenburg
									216,000
									1
									1
								
								
									Duchy of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha
									257,000
									1
									2
								
								
									Duchy of Anhalt
									331,000
									1
									2
								
								
									Principality of Schwarzburg-Sondershausen
									89,000
									1
									1
								
								
									Principality of Schwarzburg-Rudolstadt
									100,000
									1
									1
								
								
									Principality of Waldeck
									61,000
									1
									1
								
								
									Principality of Reuss, elder line
									72,000
									1
									1
								
								
									Principality of Reuss, junior line
									152,000
									1
									1
								
								
									Principality of Schaumburg-Lippe
									46,000
									1
									1
								
								
									Principality of Lippe
									150,000
									1
									1
								
								
									Free town of Lübeck
									116,000
									1
									1
								
								
									Free town of Bremen
									298,000
									1
									1
								
								
									Free town of Hamburg
									1,015,000
									1
									3
								
								
									Imperial territory of Alsace-Lorraine
									1,800,000
									3
									15
								

								
									Total (details added)
									64,903,423
									61
									397
								
							
							 five years, but the house may at any time be dissolved
							by the emperor with the consent of the Bundesrath. Members of the Reichstag, under a
							law of May, 19o6, are paid for their services.

						The chancellor

						The chief minister of the empire is the chancellor, who is appointed by the Kaiser
							from among the Prussian delegates in the Bundesrath and may be dismissed by him at
							will without regard to the rise and fall of parties in the Reichstag. The chancellor
							is not bound by any resolutions or votes of the Reichstag; he is entirely at the
							command of the emperor from whom alone he derives his authority. He presides over the
							Bundesrath, appoints the federal officers in the name of the emperor, and supervises
							the discharge of their duties.

						No cabinet system in the German Empire

						In short, Germany has never introduced the cabinet system of government which
							prevails in other European countries.1 The Kaiser exercises, through the chancellor, and in view of his position
							as king of Prussia, a power unrivaled by any of the constitutional rulers of Europe;
							and the Reichstag serves rather as a critic of, and a check on, the government than as
							the directing force.

						Necessity of uniform laws for the whole empire

						When German unity was finally achieved in 1871 by the formation of the empire, the
							new nation was very much in the position of the United States after the adoption of
							the constitution in 1789. A federation had been entered into by states bound together
							by ties of a common race and language, but its permanence was by no means assured. The
							various German rulers were zealous in safeguarding their dignity and their own
							particular rights, and they were not altogether pleased with the preeminence assumed
							by the king of Prussia. Each common-wealth had its own traditions as an independent
								state,2 its own peculiar
							industrial interests, and its own particular form of government. Realizing that the
							new union might not bear the 1 See below, p. 513 . See Readings, Vol. II, pp. 176 sqq., for Bismarck's
								view.
							2 As a concession to the
								feelings of the previously sovereign states of southern Germany, the constitution
								assures them a few special rights. The most important of these is the special postal
								system which both Bavaria and Würtemberg are permitted to maintain.
							 continued strain of these disruptive tendencies, the
							imperial government undertook to establish stronger national ties through the
							introduction of uniform laws for the whole German people, to supplant the diverse laws
							of the various commonwealths.

						Powers of the imperial government

						The leadership in this nationalizing movement fell naturally to Bismarck, chancellor
							of the empire and president of the Prussian ministry., Fortunately for him, the
							constitution conferred on the imperial legislature wide powers in regulating matters
							which in the United States are reserved entirely to the states. The imperial
							parliament is authorized to regulate commerce and intercourse between the states and
							with foreign nations, to coin money, fix weights and measures, control the banking
							system, the railways, telegraph, and post office, besides other general powers. But,
							more than this, the federal government in Germany is empowered by the constitution to
							make uniform throughout the empire the criminal and civil law, the organization of the
							courts, and judicial procedure, whereas in the United States each state defines
							crimes, regulates the form of contracts, and so forth.

						Imperial legislation

						The parliament at once set to work to carry into effect the important powers
							conferred upon it. In 1873 a uniform currency law was passed, and the bewildering
							variety of coins and paper notes of the separate states was replaced by a simple
							system of which the mark (about twenty-five cents) is the basis. The
							new coins bore on one side the effigy of the emperor, and on the other the arms of the
							empire, "to preach to the people the good news of unity." In 1871 a uniform criminal
							code was introduced; in 1877 a law was passed regulating the organization of the
							courts, civil and criminal procedure, bankruptcy, and patents; and from 1874 to 1887 a
							commission was busy drafting the civil code which went into effect in 1900.

						Although the champions of states' rights looked with disfavor upon Bismarck's policy
							of strengthening the imperial government and making uniform laws for the whole empire,
							the most significant opposition came from the Catholics, who feared the  growing influence of Protestant Prussia. At the first
							imperial elections in 1871 the Catholics returned sixty-three members to Parliament,
							and in this the chancellor saw, or pretended to see, a conspiracy of clerical forces
							against the state. At all events, he began a war on the Catholics known as the
							Kulturkampf, or "war in defense of civilization," by legislation expelling the Jesuits
							and other religious societies and imposing penalties upon the clergy for any criticism
							of the government.1 This was
							followed by other harsh legislation in Prussia; and the Pope and German clergy in
							general were moved to resist Bismarck's anti-clerical policy. Instead of submitting,
							the Catholics were welded into a strong political party which elected ninety-one
							members to the Reichstag in 1874.

						Finding the Catholic opposition growing stronger, and discovering a new danger to his
							policy in the rapid rise of a socialistic party, Bismarck came to terms with the
							Church, repealed nearly all of the measures directed against the clergy, and
							established cordial relations with the Vatican. The Catholic political party-- whose
							representatives in the Reichstag are called the Center-- was not, however, broken up
							by the reversal of the government policy; and the attempt to destroy the socialist
							party, which Bismarck was now free to make, proved no more successful.
					

					
						BISMARCK AND STATE SOCIALISM

						Beginnings of socialism in Germany

						57. The socialist party had grown up in Germany practically within
							Bismarck's own time. In 1842 a German professor had declared that Germany had nothing
							to fear from that movement since the country had no distinct working class. But within
							less than a quarter of a century Germany, like England and France, underwent a radical
							industrial revolution. Large manufacturing towns sprang up; railways were built; the
							working classes inevitably combined to protect and advance their own interests; and
							all the problems of capital and labor were suddenly thrust upon the German people.

						1 See Readings, Vol. II, p. 183.

						

						
							BISMARCK
						

						
						

						Karl Marx
						Lasalle

						The socialist view of the labor problems and their solution had been elaborated by a
							German scholar, Karl Marx, before the revolution of 1848,1 but it was not until nearly twenty years
							later that a party championing his doctrines entered German politics. Under the
							leadership of Lassalle, a radical thinker and a brilliant orator, a General
							Workingmen's Association was formed at a labor congress in Leipzig in 1863. After more
							than a year's vigorous agitation Lassalle had, however, mustered less than five
							thousand members for his association, and he was thoroughly discouraged when he met
							his end in a duel over a love affair in 1864.

						The social democrats organize in 1869

						Notwithstanding the death of Lassalle, the campaign which he had begun continued to
							be prosecuted with greater vigor than before, although by no means all of the
							workingmen believed in his programme. Some of the more radical among them, under the
							influence of the teachings of Marx, founded at Eisenach, in 1869, a new association,
							which bore the name of the Social Democratic Labor Party of Germany. The two groups
							worked side by side until 1875, when, at a general labor congress held at Gotha, they
							combined and issued an important statement of the views and purposes of the party. In
							the elections of that year for the Reichstag the socialists polled three hundred and
							forty thousand votes and began to arouse the apprehension of the government, which was
							naturally suspicious of them.

						Bismarck determines to crush out socialism, 1878

						Bismarck resented the attitude of the socialists, and after two attempts had been
							made upon the life of the emperor, which he ascribed without justification to
							socialist conspiracies, he had a law passed in 1878 designed to suppress socialistic
							agitation altogether. It prohibited meetings, publications, and associations having
							for their purpose "the subversion of the social order" or the promotion of socialistic
							tendencies dangerous to the public peace, and authorized the government to proclaim
							martial law in any city threatened by labor disturbances. This repressive 1 See
									above, p. 278 .
							 law remained in force for twelve years and completely
							disorganized the party as far as national politics were concerned. It failed, however,
							in accomplishing its full purpose, for the socialists continued to form local
							societies in spite of the precautions of the police, and to spread their doctrines by
							secret propaganda in the factories and the army and by means of papers smuggled in
							principally from Switzerland.1

						Origin of the "state socialist" party

						While these attempts were being made to suppress the social democrats, there was
							growing up in Germany a new school of political economists known as "state
							socialists," who maintained that the government should adopt a number of the
							socialistic schemes for the benefit of the working classes in order to remove the
							causes of their discontent. The practical proposals of the state socialists were
							exceedingly numerous. They advocated providing steady employment for the working
							classes, reduction of the hours of labor, improvement of the sanitary and moral
							conditions in factories, restriction of the labor of women and children, and adequate
							precautions against accidents and sickness. They proposed to equalize the distribution
							of wealth by taxing those whose incomes were derived from rents, interest, or
							speculation, and favored government ownership of railways, canals, and all means of
							communication and transport, water and gas works, a large portion of the land within
							city limits, markets, and the business of banking and insurance.

						Attitude of Bismarck toward socialism and the working classes

						Bismarck himself took a deep interest in the theories of the state socialists, and
							from 1878 to the close of his administration he advocated a number of reforms for the
							benefit of the working people and carried out a few of them. In undertaking these
							measures he frankly admitted that he was only renewing the old Brandenburg policy of
							paternal interest in the welfare of the people and in increasing the power and
							prosperity of the State. He accepted the capitalist system of industry and the
							division of society into rich and poor as a natural and permanent arrangement, but
							considered it the duty of the State to 1 See Readings, Vol. II,
									pp. 185 sqq.
							 better the condition of the working people by special
							laws, as well as to encourage industry by protective tariffs.

						State insurance in the interest of the working classes
						Accident and sickness insurance

						He looked upon certain reforms in favor of the working classes as the best means of
							undermining the influence of the socialists. In 1882 the government introduced two
							bills providing for accident and sickness insurance, which were given their final form
							after two years of deliberation and went into effect in 1885. According to the
							provisions of the first law, employers are obliged to provide a fund to insure their
							employees against accidents. From this fund the workmen are compensated when partially
							or totally disabled, and in case of death provision is made for the family of the
							deceased. The sickness insurance law compels working men and women to insure
							themselves against sickness, but helps them to bear the burden by requiring the
							employer to pay a portion of the premium and to be responsible for carrying out the
							law.

						Insurance for the aged and incapacitated

						These measures were supplemented in 1889, after the accession of the present Kaiser,
							by an old-age insurance law which compels every workman with an income under five
							hundred dollars a year to pay a certain proportion into a state fund which provides an
							annual pension for him after he has reached the age of seventy years. In case he is
							incapacitated earlier in life he may begin to draw the pension before he reaches that
							age. As in other forms of workingmen's insurance, the employers pay a portion of the
							premium; and the State also makes a regular contribution to every annuity paid.1 In 1909 over twelve million
							persons were insured under these laws.

						These three measures constitute the main results of Bismarck's policy of aiding the
							workingman, for notwithstanding an early promise of the present emperor, no
							substantial addition has been made to imperial labor legislation since 1889. Moreover
							these measures have failed to accomplish the purpose which Bismarck particularly had
							at heart,-- that of checking the socialist influence.

						1 See Readings, Vol. II, pp. 189 sqq.
					

					

					
						GERMANY'S POLICY OF PROTECTION AND COLONIZATION

						Demand for protection of German industries

						58. Closely connected with Bismarck's paternal attitude toward the
							working classes was his policy of protecting German industries against foreign
							competition. The successful war with France, the establishment of the empire, and,
							above all, the payment of the French indemnity had created a great "boom" in Germany.
							New enterprises multiplied; in Prussia alone the number of joint-stock companies
							increased from 410 in 1870 to 2267 in 1874; wages rose rapidly and times were "good"
							until the inevitable reaction due to overspeculation set in. Prices and wages then
							began to fall, companies failed, and factories closed. The manufacturers then
							commenced to demand that they be protected from foreign competition, and the farmers
							asked that high duties be placed upon the grain that was being shipped into the
							country from the United States and Russia. It was urged that the German "infant"
							industries (of which we have heard so much in the United States) could not maintain
							themselves without aid when rival nations, especially England, were so much better
							equipped with machinery, experience, and natural resources.

						Bismarck's views of protection

						Bismarck, who had formerly seemed to favor free trade, declared in the Reichstag that
							he was convinced that it would never be universally adopted by the nations of the
							earth, as some economists hoped. Even England, he argued, could not continue her
							free-trade policy. "Both France and America have completely forsaken free trade;
							Austria, instead of reducing her protective duties, has increased them; Russia has
							done the same. . . . Therefore no one can expect Germany to remain permanently the
							victim of its sincere belief in the theory of free trade. Hitherto we have thrown our
							doors wide open to foreign goods and so have made our country the dumping ground for
							all the overproduction of other countries. . . . Let us close the door and erect the
							somewhat higher barriers that are proposed, 
							
							 
							
							 and let us see to it that we secure at any rate the
							German market for the German manufacturers."

						Germany established a protective system in 1879

						It was under these circumstances that the imperial chancellor presented to the
							Reichstag in 1878 a programme of tariff revision embodying two main points: (1)
							protective duties designed to give German industries the advantage over foreign
							producers; (2) a reduction of duties on raw materials not produced within the empire.
							In the following year the Reichstag adopted the new tariff laws by a large majority
							and thus initiated a system under which Germany has become one of the greatest
							manufacturing countries in the world.

						African colonization

						German manufacturers were, however, not satisfied with securing preference over
							foreign competitors in their domestic trade; they soon began to demand government aid
							in finding new markets abroad. In spite of many misgivings about the ultimate value of
							distant colonies peopled by barbarous races, Bismarck was induced to take steps toward
							the acquisition of territory in Africa.

						Togoland and Kamerun

						He sent out Dr. Gustav Nachtigal in 1884 for the purpose of establishing German
							control at certain points along the western coast of Africa. In a short time the
							German agent had induced native chiefs to acknowledge a German protectorate over two
							large provinces, Togoland in Upper Guinea, a region about the size of the state of
							Indiana, and Kamerun, adjoining the French Congo,-- in all an area of over two hundred
							thousand square miles.1 In the
							same year Herr Luederitz, a Bremen merchant, acting under orders from Bismarck, raised
							the German flag at Angra Pequena (a point on the west coast a short distance above the
							English possessions at the Cape), where German merchants and traders had been active
							for some time. Within a few years the German government carved out a block of
							territory estimated at over three hundred and twenty thousand square miles, an area
							far greater than that of the entire German Empire. This colony bears the name of
							German 1 See map of Africa below, p. 492 .
							 Southwest Africa, but its entire European population is
							less than fifteen thousand.

						German East Africa

						Even larger territories were secured by Germany in East Africa. In 1884 the Society
							for German Colonization sent Dr. Karl Peters to determine what could be done in that
							region. The sultan of Zanzibar was induced in 1888 to lease a narrow strip of
							territory over six hundred miles long to the Germans, and in two years transferred all
							his rights to the German Empire for a million dollars. The few German settlers then
							established plantations of cocoa palms, coffee, vanilla, tobacco, caoutchouc, sugar,
							tea, etc., and the government founded several experiment stations for determining the
							possibilities of profitable agriculture.1
						
					

					

						REIGN OF WILLIAM II

						Accession of William II, 1888

						59. With the accession of the present emperor, William II,2 in 1888, Prince Bismarck lost
							his power. He had been implicitly trusted by the old Kaiser, William I, who had been
							content to leave the practical management of the empire largely in the hands of the
							chancellor. The new emperor proved a very different man. He was fond of making
								speeches3 in which he had
							much to say of the power which God had given him; indeed, he seemed to be a stout
							adherent of that conception of kingship which Bossuet extracted from the Holy
							Scriptures 1 About the
								same time German agents found their way into the Pacific and occupied a region in
								New Guinea to which the name of Kaiser Wilhelm's Land was given. The Caroline
								Islands (except Guam, which belongs to the United States) and a part of the Solomon
								group were also acquired. German merchants and investors are also developing
								railways in Asia Minor, Syria, and Mesopotamia with a view of opening up the natural
								resources. Their activities in Morocco brought them into conflict with the French,
								who believed that they possessed special rights there, and for a time there was talk
								of war, but matters were adjusted in 1906 at a congress of European powers held at
								Algeciras on the Strait of Gibraltar and later (in 1911) by a special arrangement
								between France and Germany.
							2 William II is the
								eldest son of Frederick III (who succeeded his father, William I, in March, 1888,
								and died in June of the same year) and of Victoria, the daughter of Queen Victoria
								of England.
							3 See the Readings, Vol. II, pp. 193 sqq., 198 sqq.
							 and urged upon the willing Louis XIV.1 On his accession to the throne he expressed
							himself as follows: "Summoned to the throne of my fathers, I have taken up the reins
							of government, looking for aid to the King of kings. I have sworn to God to follow the
							example of my fathers and be to my people a just and firm ruler, to nurture piety and
							the fear of God, to cherish peace, and to be a helper of the poor and oppressed, and a
							faithful guardian of justice."

						
							Dropping the Pilot2
						

						Bismark resigns, March, 1890

						It is not strange that Bismarck, who, with firm hand, keen vision, and unswerving
							devotion, had guided the ship of state through troubled waters for over a quarter of a
							century, should have found it hard to tolerate the intervention of the inexperienced
							young emperor. In March, 1890, he presented his resignation, and, amid a great
							demonstration of popular feeling, the "Iron Chancellor," the most extraordinary
							statesman Germany has ever produced, retired to private life. He had assumed no
							responsibility for the policies of William II, and may have cherished some bitterness
							against him. At any rate, after his death in 1898 these simple words were carved upon
							his tomb, "Here lies Prince Bismarck, a faithful servant of Emperor William I." 1 See Readings, Vol. I, pp. 5 sqq.
							2
									Caricature from Punch, 1890.
							 Upon the announcement of Bismarck's resignation,
							William II declared, "I am as much afflicted as if I had lost my grandfather anew, but
							we must endure whatever God sends us, even if we should have to die for it. The post
							of officer of the quarterdeck of the ship of state has fallen to me. The course
							remains unchanged. Forward, with full steam!"

						Attitude of William II toward socialism

						For a time it seemed as if William II proposed to conciliate the socialist party,
							although he could not possibly have had any real sympathy with its aims. The
							legislation against the socialists which Bismarck had inaugurated in 1878 was allowed
							to lapse in 1890, and they now carried on their agitation openly and with vigor and
							success. The emperor pledged himself to continue the social legislation begun by his
							grandfather, since he deemed it one of the duties of the State to relieve poverty; and
							he declared that the welfare of the workingman lay close to his heart. Irritated,
							however, at his failure to check the expression of discontent on the part of the
							working classes, he grew angry and pronounced the social democrat as "nothing better
							than an enemy of the empire and his country." Of late the emperor has had less to say
							about helping the workingman, but he watches with no little uneasiness the steady
							increase of the number of socialist voters.1

						Germany in the Far East

						United Germany, like united Italy, had embarked on a colonial policy, and William II
							has shown himself very ready to participate in world politics. At the close of the war
							between China and Japan, in 1895, he joined with Russia and France in preventing Japan
							from occupying the Liaotung peninsula. Two years later the Germans seized the port of
							Kiauchau on the Shantung peninsula opposite Korea.

						Doubtful value of Germany's experiments in colonization

						Notwithstanding Germany's extensive colonial dominion and commercial adventures in
							the Far East, the whole enterprise has been of doubtful value. None of the lands
							acquired are really suitable for settlement by German people who wish 1 See table
									below, p. 353, note.
							 to emigrate from the fatherland,1 and there is a steadily increasing
							expenditure for new battleships and the maintenance of troops in the colonies.
							Especially in Africa, the native races under the German flag are very warlike, and in
							1905-1906 the government spent the sum of nine million dollars in suppressing local
							uprisings, while the value of the exports and imports of the provinces scarcely
							exceeded two million dollars. The whole question therefore remains one of the most
							hotly contested in German politics and was made the leading issue in the elections for
							the Reichstag in 1907, when a majority was returned in favor of continuing the
							existing imperial policy.

						Sources of dissatisfaction on the part of the liberals and
							socialists

						However, both the colonial policy and the system of autocratic government represented
							by the Kaiser are not without powerful opponents, for in spite of the fact that the
							imperial government is founded on a written constitution and the Reichstag is elected
							by popular vote, the German government is the least democratic in western Europe. The
							emperor is not controlled by a ministry representing the majority in parliament, and
							public criticism of the governments is liable to cause the arrest and imprisonment of
							the offender. Furthermore, the Reichstag can scarcely be regarded as really
							representing the views of the nation.2 The government has refused to revise the apportionment of representatives
							as it was arranged in 1871, although great changes have taken place since that year.
							As a result Berlin, for instance, has only six members in the Reichstag, although its
							population of two million inhabitants would entitle it to twenty. This accounts 1 In 1910 there were only 340
								Germans in Togoland, 1132 in Kamerun, about 10,000 in German South West Africa, and
								2700 in East Africa.
							2 The steady increase of
								socialism is shown by the following table: 
									
										Year of election
										Socialist votes
										Members elected
										Year of election
										Socialist votes
										Members elected
									
									
										1877
										493,288
										12
										1903
										3,008,000
										81
									
									
										1881
										311,961
										12
										1907
										3,251,009
										43
									
									
										1887
										763,000
										11
										1912
										4,250,300
										110
									
									
										1890
										1,497,298
										36
									
								
							
							 for the relatively small number of socialists and the
							large number of conservatives in the parliament, for in 1907 the socialists, although
							they could muster 3,250,000 voters, returned only 43 members, whereas the
							conservatives secured 83 seats with less than 1,500,000 supporters, mainly in the
							country districts. In the elections of 1912 the socialists made large gains in spite
							of the unequal distribution of seats.

						There is no large liberal party in Germany to advocate the more democratic principles
							of responsible ministers, equal electoral districts, and retrenchment in military
							expenditures; consequently the chief opposition to the methods of William II comes
							from the socialist party which steadily grows in numbers and in the effectiveness of
							its organization. It stoutly resists any increase in expenditure for colonial
							purposes, favors international peace, and scorns the "divine right" theories of the
							emperor. Whether it will be possible for the German government to continue to adhere
							to its present methods in the face of the rising tide of democracy all over the world
							remains for the future to decide.1
					

					
						REFERENCES
								The Government of Germany: LOWELL, Governments and Parties in Continental Countries, Vol. II, pp.
									1-8.
								Development of Parties in Germany: LOWELL, Vol. II, pp. 9-69.
								The Kulturkampf: SEIGNOBOS, Political History of Europe since 1814, pp. 491-496; ROSE, Development of Modern European Nations, Vol. I, pp.
									164-168; ANDREWS, Historical Development of Modern
										Europe, Vol. II, pp. 370-375; HAZEN, Europe
											since 1815, pp. 306-310.
								The Conflict with the Socialists: SEIGNOBOS, pp. 496-498; DAWSON, German
										Socialism and Ferdinand Lassalle, pp. 247-278; ANDREWS,
									Vol. II, pp. 375-378; HAZEN, pp. 312-315.
								1 For more recent
									political developments in Germany, see below, chap. xxiv.
								
								Bismarck and Social Reform: ROSE, Vol. I,
									pp. 178-183; DAWSON, Bismarck and State
										Socialism, pp. 23-36, 72-127; ANDREWS, Vol. II, pp.
									378-381; HAZEN, pp. 315-318.
								Bismarck and Tariff Reform: DAWSON, pp.
									47-61; ROSE, Vol. I, pp. 168-178.
								The Establishment of the Colonial Empire: DAWSON, pp. 145-155 ; ROSE, Vol. II, pp. 235-263.
								William II: SEIGNOBOS, pp. 502-510; ANDREWS, Vol. II, pp. 383-390; HAZEN, pp.
									322-328.
					
				

				
					

					CHAPTER XVIII
						FRANCE UNDER THE THIRD REPUBLIC

					
						ESTABLISHMENT OF THE THIRD
								FRENCH REPUBLIC

						The third French Republic proclaimed, September 4, 1870

						60. On September 3, 1870, Napoleon III telegraphed from Sedan to
							Paris, "The army is defeated and captured, and I am a prisoner."1 This meant an immediate collapse of the
							empire which he had established some twenty years before. The Chamber of Deputies was
							invaded by a mob shouting for the republic, and a motion was made to dethrone Napoleon
							and his dynasty. Next day Gambetta and the deputies representing the city of Paris
							betook themselves to the old revolutionary storm center, the City Hall, and there
							proclaimed the reestablishment of a republic. This was sanctioned by an overwhelming
							majority of the Parisians. Meanwhile other large cities, such as Bordeaux, Marseilles,
							and Lyons, took similar action.

						The Germans invade France and lay siege to Paris

						The terrible defeat at Sedan and the capture of the emperor did not, as we know,
							bring the war to a close. The German invaders pressed on; city after city was taken;
							the strongly fortified Strassburg fell at the end of September after a terrific
							bombardment, and the fortress of Metz a month later. Paris itself was surrounded by an
							immense German army, and the king of Prussia took up his quarters at Versailles.
							Gambetta, the energetic republican leader, escaping from Paris in a balloon, floated
							safely over the lines of the besieging Germans and reached Tours. Here he invoked the
							memories of 1793 and sought to organize a national army of volunteers; but the raw
							French battalions were easily defeated by the disciplined German 1 After the conclusion of peace between
								France and Germany the Germans set Napoleon III free and he retired to England,
								where he died in 1873.
							 regiments which had been set free by the surrender of
							Metz. In January, 1871, the French made their last effort to bring the enemy to terms
							by endeavoring to cut off his communications with Germany, but the attempt failed and
							the remains of the French forces were compelled to take refuge in the neutral
							territory of Switzerland, whither the Germans could not pursue them. Paris, reduced
							after a terrible siege to the point of starvation,1 capitulated on January 28, and an armistice was
							concluded.

						The National Assembly elected February, 1871, proves to be strongly
							monarchical

						Since the dissolution of the government of Napoleon III early in September, France
							had had no opportunity to work out a new constitution, and had drifted on under a
							provisional "Government of the Public Defense" which Gambetta, Favre, and others among
							the former deputies had improvised. It was questionable whether this revolutionary
							body was authorized to conclude a peace, and accordingly it was arranged, upon the
							surrender of Paris, that the French should elect a national assembly which would
							legally represent the nation in dealing with the victorious enemy. The result of the
							elections was surprising, for only two hundred republican candidates were chosen as
							against five hundred monarchists of various kinds, namely, legitimists, Orleanists,
							and a few Bonapartists. This was largely due to the fact that Gambetta and other
							prominent republicans had talked so fervidly of continuing the war at any cost that
							the mass of the people was fearful lest if put in power they might prolong the
							disastrous conflict which was ruining the country. The National Assembly, aware that
							Paris was strongly republican in its sentiments, determined to meet in Bordeaux, where
							it held its first session on February 12.

						Adolphe Thiers

						Foremost among the brilliant men who composed this body was Adolphe Thiers, the
							historian, journalist, and politician, who for more than forty years had been a
							prominent figure both in literature and in affairs of State. In the grave crisis in
							which France found herself in February, 1871, he appeared, to be the natural leader.
							His popularity was demonstrated by 1 For a description by an eyewitness, see
										Readings, Vol. II, pp. 208 sqq.
							 the fact that in the elections for the National
							Assembly he had received over two million votes. The National Assembly therefore
							appointed him "Head of the Executive Power of the French Republic" and provided that
							he should exercise his authority through ministers of his own choice. This was, of
							course, a temporary arrangement, and the vital question whether France was to remain a
							republic or to be reconverted into a monarchy was deferred until the hated Germans
							should be got rid of. Thiers declared that in the face of the trying situation in
							which France found herself, all enlightened and patriotic citizens, whatever their
							individual views of government, should unite to free their country from the invader
							and restore her to her former prosperity.

						The conclusion of peace with the Germans. Treaty of Frankfort, May
							10, 1871

						The first step in the realization of this policy was the conclusion of a final peace
							with the Germans, for the armistice which had been agreed upon at the capitulation of
							Paris had almost expired. On February 21 Thiers hurried to Versailles to open
							negotiations with the German emperor and Bismarck, and on the twenty-sixth, after many
							stormy scenes, the terms of the preliminary treaty were formulated. France was to
							renounce Alsace and a part of Lorraine, which together included a population of almost
							1,600,000; pay an enormous indemnity of five billion francs; and submit to the
							presence of German troops until the last payment was made. The Assembly, convinced
							that a renewal of the war would be futile, accepted the terms imposed by the
							victorious Germans, and the peace documents were formally signed at Frankfort on May
								10.1

						The National Assembly moves to Versailles, March, 1871

						As soon as peace had been duly concluded with Germany the republican minority urged
							that the National Assembly should dissolve itself, since it had now fulfilled its
							purpose. The majority, however, insisted upon continuing to govern 1 The Germans were disappointed in their
								hope that the indemnity would seriously cripple France, for the first loan of two
								billion francs was secured in 1871 with ease, and the next year the second loan of
								three billions was subscribed twelve times over,-- thus demonstrating both the
								patriotism and the credit of the French people. In the autumn of 1873 the amount was
								paid in full and the last German soldier left the soil of France.
							 France and proceeding to draft a constitution. The
							Assembly refused to remove to Paris, the "headquarters of sedition and the center of
							revolution," where the monarchists had good reason to fear the strong republican
							sentiment, so they chose Versailles as their place of meeting.1 Louis Blanc warned the members that if they
							thus neglected the claims of Paris as the seat of government, there might arise "from
							the ashes of a horrible war with the foreigner a still more horrible civil conflict."
							His fears proved only too well founded, for Paris rose in revolt against an assembly
							which it regarded as made up of obstinate and benighted "rustics" who still clung to
							monarchy and had no sympathy with the needs of the great cities.

						Paris resolves to bid defiance to the National Assembly
						Views of the communards

						Trouble had been brewing in Paris for several months. The siege had thrown tens of
							thousands out of work and had produced general demoralization. The revolutionary
							group, which was speedily formed and which now attempted to govern Paris, included
							republicans, socialists, communists, anarchists, and some who could scarcely be said
							to have had much interest in anything except disorder. Many of the leaders were men of
							unquestionable integrity, who were determined to defend the republic, even by the
							sacrifice of their lives, as the "only form of government compatible with the rights
							of the people and the development of a free society." They all agreed in demanding
							that every commune, or municipality, should be left free to manage its own affairs in
							the interests of its own people. France would then become a sort of federation of
							communes, each community electing its own officers and introducing freely such social
							reforms as suited local conditions. It was this exalted confidence in the commune, or
							local government, that gained for the leaders the name of "communards."2

						1 Not until 1879 did the
							French legislature again return to Paris.

						2 The word "communist" is
							often unhappily applied to the communards. But " communist " is best reserved for
							those who advocate the more or less complete abolition of private property and
							maintain that society as a whole should own and control, in the interests of all, the
							capital which is now left in the hands of individuals. Many of the communards were
							communists, but the terms are not synonymous.

						

						The commune suppressed with terrible loss of life and property,
							April-May, 1871

						The doctrines of the communards failed, however, to gain any considerable support in
							the other cities of France, and the Assembly at Versailles determined to reduce
							rebellious Paris to subjection. Toward the close of April Thiers ordered a bombardment
							of the fortifications on the outskirts of the city preparatory to its capture. This
							was the beginning of a desperate struggle; the Versailles troops, under orders,
							refused to accord to the communards the rights of soldiers, and shot, as traitors and
							rebels, all who fell into their hands. After three weeks of fighting on the outskirts,
							the forces of the Assembly entered Paris by an unguarded gate on May 21, and then
							began a terrible period of war, murder, and arson in the city itself. For a whole week
							the fratricidal strife raged, until finally, on May 28, Marshal MacMahon, who was in
							command of the troops, was able to announce the close of the conflict and the
							restoration of order. The slaughter, however, was not yet at an end, for the
							monarchists set up courts-martial and, with scarcely the semblance of a trial, shot
							hundreds of the prisoners that had been taken. Unlike the government of the United
							States after the close of the Civil War, that of France under the leadership of
							Thiers-- once a revolutionist himself-- forgave no one. Seventy-five hundred of the
							insurgents were sent to the penal colony in New Caledonia and thirteen thousand were
							condemned to imprisonment at hard labor or sent into exile.

						Dissensions between legitimists and Orleanists in the National
							Assembly

						The National Assembly was at last free to turn to the vexed question of settling upon
							a permanent form of government for the distracted country. There would have been
							little difficulty in reestablishing the monarchy if the monarchists had not been
							hopelessly divided among themselves. Some of them, known as the "legitimists" because
							they regarded the older Bourbon line as the lawful one, were in favor of bestowing the
							crown on the count -of Chambord, a grandson of Charles X, who had been deposed by the
							Orleanist revolution in 1830. The "Orleanists," who wished to see a restoration of the
							House  of Orleans which had been overthrown in 1848, had
							a strong candidate in the person of the count of Paris, a grandson of Louis Philippe.
							These two groups of monarchists had nothing in common but their opposition to a
							republic; their hatred of each other was bitter and uncompromising.

						Thiers (elected president of the republic, August, 1871) undertakes
							to strengthen the French Army

						In view of these divisions all factions were willing to postpone for a time the final
							solution of the problem, each hoping meanwhile to gain strength by delay. This policy
							was sanctioned by Thiers, who urged the assembly to devote its attention to the
							pressing task of strengthening the army and restoring the prosperity of France.
							Smarting under the humiliation of their defeat by the Germans, the Assembly passed a
							new army law modeled upon that of Prussia, which bound every Frenchman to military
							service for five years in the active service and fifteen years in the reserve
								force.1 The frontier defenses
							were strengthened, the army equipped with the most improved instruments of war, and
							the war department completely reorganized.

						Thiers overthrown and MacMahon elected president, 1873

						At last, in December, 1872, Thiers, who had been an Orleanist, declared himself for
							the republic, arguing that its overthrow would mean a new revolution. His conservative
							republicanism, however, did not save him from attacks by Gambetta and the radical
							republicans of the extreme left; while the monarchists, angered by his defection,
							determined on his downfall. In May, 1873, they secured a majority vote in the Assembly
							for a resolution condemning Thiers's policy, and he thereupon resigned, leaving the
							government in the hands of the monarchists, who chose Marshal MacMahon as president
							and formed a coalition ministry representing Orleanists, legitimists, and
							Bonapartists.

						The legitimists and Orleanists agree on a compromise, 1873

						The various monarchist parties soon saw that they must arrange a compromise if they
							wished to restore the monarchy. Accordingly the Orleanists and legitimists agreed that
							the count of Chambord should be recognized as Henry V, and that since he had no
							children he should be succeeded by the count of Paris, 1 The term of service in the active army, from
								which no able-bodied man is exempted, is now two years, followed by eleven years in
								the reserve.
							 the candidate of the Orleanists. The thorny question
							whether France should cling to the tricolored flag, which suggested revolution, or
							adopt the ancient white banner of the Bourbons was deferred until the monarchy should
							be securely established.

						The count of Chambord refuses to abandon the while flag of the
							Bourbons

						In this adjustment of affairs the parties had not reckoned with the character of the
							count of Chambord. He was then over fifty years of age and had spent most of his life
							as an exile in Scotland, Germany, Austria, and Italy. He had been educated by pious
							Catholics and ardent supporters of the legitimist cause, who had imbued him with a
							passionate devotion to the ancient rights of his house and with an equally passionate
							hatred of revolution in every form. Immediately after the suppression of the Paris
							Commune he had issued a manifesto in which he declared, "France will come to me, and I
							to her, just as I am, with my principles and my flag." He consented to negotiate with
							the count of Paris only on condition that he himself should be recognized as the
							legitimate head of the family and the lawful king. He then published an open letter in
							which he declared that he would not renounce the white flag which had so long been the
							standard of his house.

						MacMahon's term prolonged to seven years

						The Orleanists, enraged by the conduct of the fusion candidate, determined that he
							should not ascend the throne upon his own terms and took measures to prevent his
							coronation, although he had come to Versailles to superintend the preparations. They
							turned to the Bonapartists and republicans with a proposition to prolong the term of
							Marshal MacMahon, as president of the republic, for a period of seven years, in the
							hope that by the time his term expired they could gain sufficient strength to place
							their own candidate on the throne.

						The Assembly at last agrees to sanction a republican form of
							government, January, 1875

						The Assembly meanwhile continued its confused and heated debates, the republicans
							demanding the establishment without further delay of a republican constitution; the
							legitimists, the retirement of Marshal MacMahon in favor of the count of Chambord; and
							the Orleanists, the president's continuance in office until 188o. Finally, at the
							beginning of the year 1875,  four years after the
							election of the Assembly, it at last took up seriously the consideration of a
							permanent form of government, and on January 29 a motion was carried by a majority of
							one, providing that the president of the republic should be elected by the Senate and
							Chamber of Deputies meeting in a joint assembly. Thus the republicans finally carried
							the day by the narrowest possible margin.

						Peculiar form of the present constitution of France

						The restoration of the monarchy having now become impossible, for the time being at
							least, the Assembly proceeded with the work of completing a form of government, not by
							drafting an elaborate constitution but by passing a series of laws. These separate
							laws, supplemented by later amendments, form the constitution of the Third Republic,
							which consequently differs in many fundamental ways from all the previous French
							constitutions. It contains no reference to the sovereignty of the people; it includes
							no bill of rights enumerating the liberties of French citizens; and it makes no
							definite provision for maintaining a republican form of government. It, in fact, bears
							throughout the marks of hasty compilation, designed as it was to tide the nation over
							a crisis until one of the contending parties in the Assembly could secure a triumphant
							majority. Nevertheless, despite the expectations of many who took part in its making,
							it has lasted longer and provided a more stable government than any of the numerous
							constitutions France has had since 1789.

						Position of the president of the French republic

						Under this new constitution the president of the French republic occupies a position
							rather more like that of the king of England than that of the president of the United
							States. He is elected for a term of seven years, not by the people at large but by the
							Senate and Chamber of Deputies which meet as one body in Versailles for the purpose.
							There is no vice president, and in case of the death or resignation of the president a
							new one is immediately chosen for the full term of seven years. He selects his cabinet
							principally from among the members of the chambers, and the ministers thus chosen  exercise a powerful control over his policy and
							appointments. The real head of the government is the prime minister, as in England.
							The president has no veto, but may return a measure to the Chamber and Senate for
							reconsideration.

						The Senate and Chamber of Deputies

						The parliament consists of two houses, differing in this respect from the legislative
							bodies established in 1791 and 1848. The members of the Chamber of Deputies (now 597
							in number) are chosen for a term of four years directly by the people, and every man
							over twenty-one years of age-- unless he be in active service in the army-- is
							permitted to vote. The three hundred senators are chosen indirectly for a term of nine
							years by a small group of local government officers in each department.

						Exceptional powers of the French Parliament

						It will be observed that the French parliament is more powerful than the Congress of
							the United States. It not only elects the president, who is under the control of a
							ministry representing the majority in the chambers, but it may by meeting in joint
							session amend the constitution without the necessity of submitting the changes to the
							people for their ratification. There is no supreme court in France to declare the
							measures of parliament unconstitutional, and the president cannot veto them. Like the
							members of the English cabinet, the French ministers resign when they find their
							policy is no longer supported by a majority in the Chamber of Deputies.
					

					
						THE THIRD FRENCH REPUBLIC SINCE 1875: THE DREYFUS AFFAIR

						Strength of the republicans causes MacMahon to resign, 1879

						61. The National Assembly, after completing the laws which now
							serve France as a constitution, dissolved on December 31, 1875, and a regular election
							was held throughout France for the purpose of choosing the members of the Senate and
							Chamber of Deputies. This resulted in an overwhelming majority for the republicans in
							the Chamber, and even in the Senate there were enough of them to give them the balance
							of  power among the conflicting royalist factions. The
							Orleanist president, Marshal MacMahon, found himself unable to work in harmony with
							the deputies, and in 1877 he dissolved the Chamber with the hope that by meddling in
							the elections and manipulating the returns he could secure at last a monarchical
							majority. This coup d'ètat failed. The new election left the
							republicans still in power; they denounced the president's policy and refused to
							approve the budget that he presented. After continuing the struggle until 1879,
							MacMahon resigned and was succeeded by an unmistakable republican, Jules Grévy, who
							enjoyed the entire confidence of the Chamber.

						Freedom of the press and of public assemblies

						Still further strengthened by the elections of 1881, the republicans undertook a
							number of urgent reforms. The press had been declared free in 1789 and in 1815, but
							the government had constantly watched the newspapers and punished editors who offended
							it by too frank criticism. At last, in 1881, the licenses previously required of those
							who wished to undertake new publications were abolished, publishers were no longer
							forced to make deposits in order to insure their respectful treatment of the
							government, and the police courts were deprived of their right to try those accused of
							defaming government officials. Akin to this reform was the right extended to any group
							of citizens to hold public meetings, on condition that they should merely announce
							their intention to the authorities. In 1884, after nearly a hundred years of harsh
							repressive legislation directed against all labor associations, a law was passed
							permitting workingmen to form unions. Finally, the government undertook a series of
							measures with a view of freeing the schools from the influence of the clergy, who were
							accused of undermining the loyalty of the children to the republic. These measures
							will be considered presently.

						Disappearance of the monarchical parties

						Year by year the French republic gained in the number of its adherents and in the
							confidence of the other powers of Europe. The death of the son of Napoleon III in 1879
							was a fatal blow to the already declining hopes of the Bonapartists,  and the death of the childless count of Chambord in 1883
							left the legitimist faction without a head. A few Orleanists clung to their candidate,
							the count of Paris, until his death in 1894, but the elections of the preceding year,
							which resulted in the choice of only seventy-three royalist deputies-- legitimists,
							Orleanists, and Bonapartists-- had shown that France was at last irrevocably committed
							to the republic.

						Boulanger's attempt to overturn the republic

						Only twice since the formation of the republic has it been seriously threatened by
							political disturbances. The death of Gambetta in i881 left the republicans, who
							naturally split up into several factions, without any distinguished leader. Encouraged
							by this situation a popular officer, General Boulanger, began courting the favor of
							the army and the workingmen in somewhat the same way that Napoleon III had done when
							he was planning to make himself master of France. In 1889 he was reflected to the
							Chamber of Deputies by an overwhelming majority, and it seemed for a time that he
							might be able to gain sufficient popularity to enable him to get control of the
								government.1 His enemies
							charged him with threatening the safety of the State, and he was tried and condemned
							to life imprisonment. He escaped from France, however, and in 1891 committed suicide,
							leaving his party to go to pieces. This episode served rather to discredit the
							monarchists than to weaken the republic.

						The opening of the Dreyfus affair, 1894

						France had scarcely settled down after the Boulanger episode before a singular
							incident rent the country into angry factions and stirred up the most bitter animosity
							which had distracted the nation since the Franco-German War and the suppression of the
							Commune. In 1894 Captain Alfred Dreyfus, an Alsatian Jew in the French artillery
							service, was charged with having delivered to a representative of the German
							government "a certain number of confidential documents relating to national defense,"
							which might enable Germany to undertake war against France. He was secretly tried by a
							military tribunal, 1 For a defense of Boulanger, see Readings,
									Vol. II, pp. 216 sqq.
							 condemned to life imprisonment, degraded from his rank,
							and sent into solitary confinement on the lonely Devil's Island off the coast of
							French Guiana.

						Dreyfus had consistently protested that he was entirely innocent of the charge, and
							his friends began to work for a new trial. Prominent military officers, however, were
							determined that the Dreyfus affair should not be reopened for fear, apparently, that
							something discreditable to the army might be unearthed.

						France roused to frenzy over the affair

						The supporters of Dreyfus charged the army officers with unscrupulousness and
							corruption; his opponents, on the other hand, appealed to the country in the name of
							the honor of the army; churchmen attacked him as a Jew and as an enemy of Christian
							France. Government officials in general maintained his guilt, but many politicians,
							journalists, and prominent radicals declared their belief in his innocence and accused
							those in power of shielding criminal injustice. Monarchists cited the whole scandal as
							conclusive evidence of the failure of republican government. Thus the Dreyfus affair
							became a military, religious, and political question, which created a sort of frenzy
							in France and aroused the interest of the whole civilized world.

						Dreyfus at last declared innocent, 1906

						The controversy reached a crisis in 1898 when the well-known novelist, Émile Zola,
							published an article1 accusing
							all officials connected with the trial and conviction of Dreyfus not only of wanton
							injustice but of downright dishonesty. Zola's charges greatly increased the
							excitement, and distinguished scholars and men of letters raised their voices in
							defense of Dreyfus. Zola was tried and condemned for his bold indictment,2 but the reconsideration of the
							whole case could not be postponed any longer, and a new trial-was ordered, which began
							at Rennes in the summer of 1899. This resulted in the condemnation of Dreyfus to six
							years' imprisonment, but he was immediately pardoned by President Loubet. It was hoped
								1 An
									extract is given in the Readings, Vol. II, pp. 219 sqq.
							2 He
									escaped punishment by retiring to England.
							 that the credit of those who had originally condemned
							Dreyfus might in this way be saved and yet no penalty be imposed on an innocent man.
							Naturally enough, however, this did not satisfy Dreyfus, who wanted not freedom as a
							pardoned criminal but a judicial declaration of his innocence. Consequently his
							numerous sympathizers continued to work for a new trial, and finally, in 1906, the
							highest court in France completely exonerated Dreyfus.

						Effects of the controversy
						The formation of the "bloc"

						The affair was thus at an end, but the effects of the controversy on the political
							situation in France could not be undone. It produced an alliance, called the "bloc," among the republicans of all shades, including the socialists,
							for the purpose of reducing the political importance of the army and the Church. The
							army was republicanized by getting rid of the royalist officers; the destruction of
							the political power of the clergy was by no means so easy a matter.
					

					
						THE SEPARATION OF CHURCH AND STATE

						Natural hostility of the clergy to the French republic

						62. The Catholic clergy had from the first been hostile to the
							republic, for they had every reason to fear that the new government, with its
							confidence in popular sovereignty, freedom of the press, and public schools, would
							sooner or later undermine their authority. The head of the Church, Pius IX, in a
							solemn statement called the Syllabus of 1864, had denounced in no uncertain terms what
							he regarded as the great dangers and errors of the age. Among these were religious
							toleration, liberty of conscience, freedom of the press and of speech, separation of
							Church and State, and secular education. The republicans were therefore pledged to
							just those things which the Pope condemned. It was inevitable, therefore, that the
							clerical party should do all in its power to discredit the republic and bring about a
							restoration of the monarchy. The Jesuits and other religious orders who maintained
							schools roused in the children's minds a distrust of the government, and the  clergy actively engaged in electioneering whenever there
							was hope of electing deputies who would favor their cause. The religious newspapers
							represented the republic as an unfortunate accident which had put ungodly men in power
							but which would doubtless speedily give way to a more legitimate form of
							government.

						The republicans become anticlerical

						This attitude on the part of the clergy naturally made the republicans more strongly
							anticlerical than ever. They came to hate the clergy and all they stood for. Gambetta
							declared that clericalism was "the enemy." Indeed, it was not until
							1892 that Leo XIII admonished the French bishops and priests to "accept the republic,
							that is to say, the established power which exists among you; respect it and submit to
							it as representing the power which comes from God."

						Main objects of the anticlericals during the past twenty-five
							years

						In spite of this peaceful advice on the part of the head of the Church there has been
							no peace; for during the past twenty-five years an extraordinary struggle between
							Church and State has been in progress in France, in which the republic has proved the
							victor and has succeeded in depriving the Church of a great part of those sources of
							political influence which remained to it after the losses it suffered during the
							French Revolution. The opponents of the Church have had two main objects in view: (1)
							to free the schools from the influence of the clergy and thus prevent the children of
							France from being brought up as monarchists, and (2) to relieve the government from
							the burden of paying the salaries of the clergy and to bring about the complete
							separation of Church and State.

						Establishment of public schools under purely secular influence

						The first step was to increase the number of public schools which might serve to
							attract pupils away from the convent and other Church schools. Over two hundred
							millions of dollars have been appropriated for this purpose during the past thirty
							years. By laws passed in 1881-1886 instruction was made free in the primary public
							schools, no clergyman was to be employed as a teacher in them, and compulsory
							education for children between six and thirteen years was established. The private
							schools were also placed under strict government supervision.

						

						Opposition in the religious associations

						Many of the monastic orders and various other religious associations which had lost
							their property and then been abolished during the first revolution had been
							reestablished, and new ones had been created. Most of them were devoted to charitable
							work or to education. The Jesuits were accused of working, as always, in the interests
							of the Pope, and the Dominicans of preaching openly against the republic, while the
							innumerable schools in the convents and elsewhere were reproached with instilling
							monarchical and reactionary ideas into the tender minds of the children committed to
							their charge.

						The Associations Law of 1901

						From time to time some anticlerical deputy would propose the abolition of all the
							religious associations, and finally, in 1900, Waldeck-Rousseau, then prime minister,
							committed himself and his cabinet to a measure for greatly reducing their number,
							declaring that "There are too many monks in politics and too many monks in
								business."1 The following
							year the Associations Law was passed. This provided that no religious order could
							continue to exist in France without a specific authorization from the parliament, and
							that no one belonging to a nonauthorized association should be permitted to teach or
							to conduct a school. At the time of the passage of the law there were about one
							hundred and sixty thousand members (mainly women) in the various religious
							associations, which maintained about twenty thousand establishments. The parliament
							refused to grant most of the applications made by the many unauthorized associations,
							and as a result numerous teaching, preaching, and commercial societies which had been
							organized under the auspices of the Catholic Church were broken up, and within two
							years ten thousand religious schools were closed. In the year 1909-1910 there were
							over five million French children in the public and other secular schools and less
							than one 1 Sometimes the
								orders carried on a little industry in the interests of their convent. For example,
								the monks of the great Carthusian monastery above Grenoble manufactured the famous
								liqueur known as Chartreuse. The labor parties denounced the monks for thus going
								into business and competing with other manufacturers.
							 hundred thousand enrolled in those connected with
							religious associations. A law of 1904 provided that within ten years all teaching by
							religious associations shall cease.

						The Concordat of 1801 established a close relation between Church and
							State

						The attack on the religious orders was only the prelude to the complete separation of
							Church and State which had been advocated for a century by the opponents of the
							Church. It will be remembered that the French Convention proclaimed this separation in
							1795 and refused longer to pay the salaries of the clergy, or in any way to recognize
							the existence of the Church except as a voluntary association which should be
							supported by those who wished to belong to it. Bonaparte, however, partially restored
							the old system in the Concordat which he arranged with the Pope in 1801.1 This, with a supplementary act,
							remained the basis of the relations between Church and State in France down to
								1906.2 Bonaparte did not give
							back the property of the Church of which it had been deprived by the first French
							Assembly in 1789, but he agreed that the government should pay the salaries of the
							bishops and priests whose appointment it controlled. Although the Catholic religion
							was recognized as that of the majority of Frenchmen, the State also helped support the
							Reformed and Lutheran churches and the Jewish religious community.

						Power of the clergy during the nineteenth century

						From the standpoint of the government this was in many ways an excellent arrangement,
							for it was thus enabled profoundly to influence public opinion through its control
							over the clergy. Consequently, amid all the later political changes, the settlement
							reached by Bonaparte was retained essentially unaltered. Louis XVIII, Charles X, Louis
							Philippe, and Napoleon III had no desire to do away with the Concordat which afforded
							them such great political power.

						1 See Readings, Vol. II, pp. 224 sq.
						2 The policy of the leaders
							of the French Revolution and of Bonaparte in regard to the clergy and the religious
							associations has already been carefully described with a view of preparing the way for
							an understanding of the recent important legislation in France affecting the Church.
							See above, pp. 127
							sqq., 141, and 194
							sqq.

						

						Final separation of Church and State in 1905

						But with the establishment of the republic all this was changed, owing to the strong
							monarchical sympathies of the clergy. There were, moreover, large numbers of Frenchmen
							who, if not actively opposed to the Church, had no interest in religion. To this class
							it seemed absurd that the government should be paying forty million francs a year to
							clergymen for teaching the people what seemed to them nonsense and for stirring up
							hostility to the government. Nevertheless, it was no easy task to put asunder Church
							and State, which had been closely associated with one another from the times of
							Constantine and Theodosius the Great. It was not until December, 1905, that the
							Separation Law was promulgated.

						Main provisions of the Separation Law

						The main provisions of the new law are relatively simple. It suppresses all
							government appropriations for religious purposes, but provides pensions for clergymen
							of long service and the gradual extinction of the salaries of others. It declares that
							cathedrals, churches, the residences of bishops, and other ecclesiastical buildings
							belong to the government, but shall be placed at the disposal of congregations and
							their pastors free of charge. The management of these edifices and the control of
							other property of the Church are vested in Associations for Religious Worship1 (associations
								cultuelles) composed of from seven to twenty-five persons according to the size
							of the commune. The Concordat concluded in 1800 is, of course, expressly
							abolished.

						The Pope and clergy oppose the new law

						It soon became evident that the Pope and a large Catholic party were determined not
							to accept these provisions. Crowds collided with the soldiers sent to guard the
							churches while inventories were being made of the property to be handed over to the
							Associations for Public Worship. In February, 1906, the Pope condemned the entire law
							in a long encyclical letter 1 These closely resemble the various Church associations, both Catholic and
								Protestant, in the United States, which are, from the standpoint of the law, merely
								religious societies on the same footing as social, literary, or scientific
								associations.
							
							
								CATHOLICS DEFENDING A CHURCH AGAINST THE INVENTORY OF PROPERTY
									BY THE POLICE, IN 1906
							
							
							 to the archbishops and bishops of France in which he
							protested especially against the religious associations for which it provided.1 Unfortunately he did not advise
							the French clergy just how to get out of the predicament in which they found
							themselves.

						National elections uphold the government

						The clergy, obedient to the commands of the head of the Church, refused to
							countenance the formation of associations, and most of them declined the proffered
							pensions. The nation at large, however, evidently supported the government in its
							plans, for the elections held in May, 1906, returned a large majority of radicals,
							socialists, and progressives committed to the full execution of the law.

						The government permits the continuance of public worship by a new
							law, December, 1906

						When the year allowed for the formation of the religious associations expired in
							December, 1906, the Church property which had no legal claimants passed into the hands
							of the government. However, the minister of public worship, M. Briand, socialist,
							unwilling to stop religious services, took steps to allow the churches to remain open
							in spite of the failure to comply with the law. At his instigation the French
							parliament passed a very important supplementary measure which provides that buildings
							for public worship and their entire furniture shall remain at the disposal of priests
							and their congregations even if the associations required by the original law are not
							formed.

						In January, 1907, the Pope again denounced the government, which, he declared, was
							confiscating Church property and attempting to destroy Christianity in France; and he
							has not yet been reconciled to the policy of the government. Nevertheless, it is quite
							clear that the republic means to render permanent the separation of Church and State.
							Subsidies to the clergy are no longer provided, although the promised pensions are
							paid to such clergymen as apply for them. In the budget of 1912 only about $50,000 was
							set aside for "the assistance of retired clergymen." The government leaves the Church
							to choose its own bishops and priests and hold conventions when 1 The protest is
									printed in the Readings, Vol. II, pp. 226 sqq.
							 and where it wishes. It has converted the palaces of
							the bishops, the parsonages, and the seminaries into schools, hospitals, or other
							public institutions, although it still permits the churches to be used for public
							worship.
					

					

						POLITICAL PARTIES IN FRANCE

						Parties in the French Parliament

						63. The parties and factions in the French parliament are
							bewildering in number. The election of 1906 sent to the Chamber of Deputies
							representatives of the following groups: radicals, socialist radicals, dissident
							radicals, independent socialists, unified socialists, republicans of the left,
							progressivists, nationalists, monarchists and Bonapartists, and a few other minor
							factions. With the exception, of course, of the monarchists and Bonapartists, they all
							agree that the republic shall be maintained, and they have been able to unite upon
							many important measures, such as those relating to education and the relations of the
							State to the Church, but they differ on other questions of reform which are constantly
							coming up. Some are pretty well satisfied with things as they are, while others,
							especially the various socialist groups, would like to see the government undertake a
							complete social and economic revolution for the benefit of the laboring classes. The
							State should, they believe, take possession of lands, mines, mills, and other sources
							of wealth and means of production, and see that they are used for the benefit of those
							who do the work and no longer serve to enrich men who seem to them to sit idly by and
							profit by the labor of others.

						Socialism reappears under the Third Republic

						The socialistic party, which figured so prominently in the Revolution of 1848 and the
							revolt of the Paris Commune, disappeared for a time after the suppression of the
							insurrection in 1871, but again reappeared shortly after the final establishment of
							the republic. In 1879 the socialists held their first congress under the republic at
							Marseilles, where they may be said to have initiated the present socialist movement in
							France.  The following year a general amnesty was
							granted to all who had been connected with the Commune, and a great labor convention
							was immediately held in Paris, where, under the inspiration of Jules Guesde, the
							doctrines of Karl Marx were accepted as the fundamental principles of French
							socialism.

						Divisions among the socialists,-- Marxians and possibilists

						Notwithstanding their general agreement as to their ends, the French socialists have
							from the very first been divided over the question of the best methods of attaining
							their aims. Broadly speaking, there have been two groups, each with varying shades of
							opinion. In the first place there are the Marxians,-- who are in general strongly
							opposed to voting for candidates of other parties, though willing to wring concessions
							from them in the Chamber of Deputies,-- who expect socialism to be ushered in by a
							crisis in which the workingmen will seize the supreme power and use it for their own
							benefit, as the middle class did in the previous revolutions. The second, and more
							numerous, socialist group goes by the name of the "possibilists," because they do not
							believe that socialistic ideas can be carried into effect as the result of a violent
							revolution, but hope to see them realized by a gradual process in which the government
							will assume control and ownership of one industry after another.

						The socialists become a political factor

						The various socialistic factions, numbering six or seven at times, united at the
							general election in 1893, and by remarkable energy succeeded in returning about fifty
							members to the Chamber of Deputies, thus inaugurating a new era in French politics.
							The socialist vote steadily increased until in 1899 the prime minister,
							Waldeck-Rousseau, was forced to accept a socialist, M. Millerand, as Minister of
							Commerce in order to control enough votes in the chamber to carry on the government.
							Since then the possibilists have from time to time been represented in the cabinet,
							and they have worked for their ends by combining with other parties.1

						1 For a speech by the
							former prime minister, Clemenceau, on socialism, see Readings, Vol.
							II, pp. 233 sqq.

						

						Contrast between the French parties and those in England and the
							United States

						In England and the United States there are two great parties, one of which is
							ordinarily in unmistakable control. In France there are so many parties that no single
							one can ever long command a majority of votes in the Chamber of Deputies. As a result
							measures cannot be carried simply because the leaders of one party agree on them, but
							they must appeal to a number of groups on their own merits. Minorities, consequently,
							have an opportunity to influence legislation in France, and there is little chance for
							machine politics to develop. It is true that French ministries rise and fall at very
							short intervals, but nevertheless the laws which do pass receive more careful
							attention, perhaps, than they would if pushed through as party measures.1

						"Interpellations"

						The opponents of a ministry in the Chamber of Deputies take advantage of the
							privilege of asking the ministers questions in regard to their policy and thus force
							them to explain their motives. When a deputy formally announces that he is going to
							"interpellate" the ministers, he must be given an opportunity to do so within a
							certain period at a regular session of the Chamber. These "interpellations" are more
							common in France than elsewhere, but are not unknown in other governments.
					

					
						EXPANSION OF FRANCE

						French colonial dominion in 1870

						64. While solving grave problems at home the Third Republic in has
							pushed forward its commercial, exploring, and military enterprises until it has built
							up a colonial dominion vaster than that lost during the eighteenth century in the
							conflicts with England, though less valuable and less inviting to French emigrants.
							When the Third Republic was established French colonial possessions consisted of
							Algeria in northern Africa, the Senegal region on the west coast of Africa, some minor
							posts scattered along the Gulf of Guinea down to the Congo River, a foothold in Cochin
							China, and a number of small islands in various parts of the 1 For recent social
									legislation in France, see below, p. 527.
							 world. The basis of territorial expansion had thus been
							laid, and after the quick recovery which followed the reverses of the German War, the
							French government frankly committed itself to a policy of imperialism.

						The French annex Algeria

						While the National Assembly was deliberating on the form of government at home, a
							revolt in Algeria, which had been seized in 1830, forced France to formulate a
							colonial policy. This insurrection was not put down until more than two hundred
							battles and skirmishes had been fought. The great province of Algeria is only slightly
							smaller than France itself, and has a population of over five millions, of whom only
							about eight hundred thousand are of European origin.1 To the east of Algeria lies the province of Tunis,
							equaling in area the state of New York and having a population akin to that of Algeria
							in race and religion. Tunisian tribes were accused by the French of disturbing the
							peace of the Algerian border, and in 1881 France dispatched troops into Tunis. After
							some serious fighting the province was occupied and the Bey was virtually forced to
							surrender the administration of his possessions to the French government, in whose
							hands it remains.

						The French in Senegal

						While these enterprises were bringing northern Africa under French dominion, a series
							of daring explorations and conquests in western and central Africa were adding vast
							regions and millions of African natives to the French colonial domain. France had
							taken formal possession of the province of Senegal on the west coast as early as 1637,
							but no serious efforts to extend her control inland were made until the annexation of
							Algeria called attention to the possibility of joining the two provinces. After the
							middle of the nineteenth century steady pressure inland began and Timbuktu was
							conquered in 1894.

						The Fashoda incident

						Four years later Marchand, a French explorer, pressed eastward across the desert and
							reached the Nile region, where he raised the French flag at Fashoda over lands claimed
							by the 1 The French have
								also been mapping out and occupying the vast desert to the south.
							 English. An English force, however, compelled Marchand
							to lower the flag, and for a time it looked as if the two countries might come to
							blows. Fortunately, however, the French withdrew, and the two nations arranged the
							disputed boundaries between them, thus closing the "Fashoda incident," as it was
							called.

						French Congo

						A post on the equator at the mouth of the Gabun River, bought in 1839, became the
							base for celebrated expeditions headed by du Chaillu and de Brazza, which added a vast
							region north of the Congo River more than twice the size of France and now known as
							French Congo.1 The vast extent
							of the French possessions in northwestern Africa will become apparent as one glances
							at the map, p. 492, below.

						The annexation of Madagascar, 1896

						While the French explorers were pushing their way through the jungles of the Senegal
							and Congo regions, or braving the sand storms of the Sahara,2 French missionaries and commercial agents
							were preparing the way for the annexation of the island of Madagascar. Using as a
							pretext the murder of some French citizens by the natives, the French waged war on the
							ruler of Madagascar (1882-1885), and succeeded in establishing a protectorate over the
							entire island. Later they accused Queen Ranavalona III of bad faith and of inability
							to suppress brigandage. A second war which broke out in 1895 ended in the deposition
							and expulsion of the queen.

						Advance of France in Asia

						The Third Republic also has extensive colonial dominions in Asia, where French
							missionaries and traders had been attracted under Colbert's administration. Interest
							in the province of Anam was renewed about 1850 when some French missionaries were
							murdered there. Napoleon III waged war on the 1 In addition to their larger African
								dependencies the French control French Guiana, south of Senegal, the Ivory Coast,
								and the native kingdom of Dahomey.
							2 In the contest for the
								east coast of Africa the French have taken little part. In 1862 they purchased from
								a native chief the post of Obock, but it was not actually occupied until 1884. Since
								that time, however, slight additions of land have been made, and the post has grown
								into French Somaliland, a province of about six thousand square miles.
							 king in 1857, forcing from him the payment of an
							indemnity and the cession of a small portion of his territory. The foothold thus
							obtained formed the basis for rapid expansion in every direction; a protectorate was
							extended over the kingdom of Cambodia in 1864; and in 1867 Cochin China was entirely
							annexed. An attempt in 1873 to force the opening to navigation of the Red River in
							Tonkin led to a war with the ruler of that province which resulted in the extension of
							a protectorate over all of Anam, of which Tonkin was a district. This defiance of the
							Chinese emperor's claims at length stirred him to resistance; but the war of 1884
							which resulted cost him all his rights over Tonkin and the remainder of Anam. In 1893
							France extended her authority over the territory of Laos to the south. The French
							possessions are thus in close contact with the provinces of southern China into which
							French influence is already penetrating in the form of railways and mining
							concessions. France is therefore deeply involved in the rivalry of the powers of the
							world in the Far East, among which the United States must now be reckoned on account
							of its possession of the Philippine Islands lying just eastward from the coast of
							French Indo-China.
					

					

						COLONIES AND DEPENDENCIES OF FRANCE

						

							IN ASIA: Five towns in India, Anam,
								Cambodia, Cochin China, Tonkin, and Laos.

							IN AFRICA: Algeria, Tunis, Sahara,
								Senegal, Upper Senegal and Niger, French Guinea, Ivory Coast, Dahomey, Congo,
								Somaliland, Mauretania, Madagascar, the islands of Réunion and Mayotte, and the
								Comoro Isles.

							IN A>MERICA: Guiana, Guadeloupe,
								Martinique, St. Pierre, and Miquelon.

							IN OCEANIA: New Caledonia and
								dependencies. Various stations in Pacific.

							Total area, 4,776,126 square miles. Population, 41,653,650.
						
					

					

					
						REFERENCES
								The Commune: SEIGNOBOS, Political History of Europe since 1814, pp. 187-194; ROSE, Development of Modern European Nations, Vol. I, pp.
									126-134 ; COUBERTIN, The Evolution of France under
										the Third Republic, pp. 17-22; ANDREWS, Historical Development of Modern Europe, Vol. II, pp. 343-349; HAZEN, Europe since 1815, pp. 330-336.
								Establishment of the Third Republic: SEIGNOBOS, pp. 194-204; ROSE, Vol. I, pp. 135-152: COUBERTIN, pp. 1-52; ANDREWS, Vol. II, pp.
									349-355; HAZEN, pp. 336-345.
								The Government of France: LOWELL, Governments and Parties in Continental Europe, Vol. I, pp. 1-68;
										BODLEY, France; HAZEN,
									pp. 345-348.
								Political Parties in France: LOWELL, Vol.
									I, pp. 69-145; SEIGNOBOS, pp. 205-221.
								The Struggle between Church and State: PAUL SABATIER, >Disestablishment in
										France; BODLEY, The Church in France,
									pp. 13-114; COUBERTIN, pp. 272-307; HAZEN,
									pp. 364-371.
								The French Colonial Empire: COUBERTIN,
									pp. 162-197; The Statesman's Year-Book (1912), pp. 798-837; HAZEN, pp. 371-375.
					
				

				
					

					CHAPTER XIX
						POLITICAL AND SOCIAL REFORMS IN ENGLAND

					
						PARLIAMENTARY REFOM

						Backwardness of England at the opening of the nineteenth
							century

						65. In the eighteenth century the English government had been
							extolled by Montesquieu and others as by far the most liberal and enlightened in
							Europe. But the reforms of the French Revolution made England appear almost medieval
							in its backwardness. Its Parliament was, after all, only a council of wealthy
							landlords and nobles who often gained their seats by bribery and could not be said to
							represent the nation, which had, indeed, little to do with their election. The English
							law was still shockingly brutal; citizens who did not comply with certain rites of the
							Established Church were excluded from office; and education was far from the reach of
							the masses. When the downfall of Napoleon left the English free to turn their
							attention to the problems which faced them at home, they were forced to undertake a
							thorough modernization of their institutions almost as radical as that which was being
							effected with more turmoil on the continent.1

						Origin of the "rotten boroughs"

						The leading issue was the reform of Parliament,-- a matter which had begun to attract
							the attention of English liberals before the opening of the French Revolution. It is a
							cardinal principle of modern democratic government that at least one 1 The important reforms which
								England carried through during the nineteenth century with little bloodshed or
								disorder are sometimes cited as showing the superior political genius of the
								English. It should be remembered, however, that the supremacy of the Parliament over
								the king had only been established after a bloody civil war, the execution of one
								king, and the expulsion of another. Louis XIV's minister, Torcy, regarded the
								English of his time as fickle and incompetent in governmental matters.
							 of the houses in the legislative body shall be made up
							of representatives of the people, fairly apportioned among the various election
							districts. In England, however, such towns as had in earlier times been summoned by
							the king to send their two representatives each to Parliament, continued to do so at
							the opening of the nineteenth century, regardless of the number of their inhabitants,
							and no new boroughs had been added to the list since the reign of Charles II. Mere
							villages had grown into great cities, and the newer towns which had developed under
							the influence of the Industrial Revolution, like Birmingham, Manchester, and Leeds,
							had no representatives at all. On the other hand, Dunwich, which had been buried under
							the waters of the North Sea for two centuries, was duly represented, as well as the
							famous borough of Old Sarum, which was only a green mound where a town had once stood.
							Moreover it was not only in the towns that representation was wholly unequal. The
							county of Cornwall, with a population of a quarter of a million, had forty-four
							representatives, while all Scotland, with eight times that population, was entitled to
							only one more member.

						Few persons permitted to vote

						A second cardinal principle of modern democracy was violated by the restrictions on
							the right to vote. In the towns there was no uniform rule. In some boroughs all
							taxpayers had the right to take part in elections, but in one of these-- Gatton--
							there were only seven voters. In other boroughs the right of choosing the members of
							Parliament was exercised by the mayor and town council, who were often not elected by
							the people at all.

						Many seats controlled by members of the House of Lords

						Many of the boroughs were owned outright by members of the House of Lords or others,
							who easily forced the few voters to choose any candidate they proposed. The duke of
							Norfolk chose eleven members of the House of Commons, Lord Lonsdall, nine, and Lord
							Darlington, seven; while other peers had one or more representatives in the Commons.
							In 1828 the duke of Newcastle evicted over five hundred of his tenants because they
							refused to vote for his candidate, and when this led to a protest  in Parliament he replied, "Have I not a right to do as I like with my
							own?" Some of the lords sold the seats they controlled to the highest bidders.

						Situation in the country districts

						In the country districts matters were no better. It is true that every person owning
							land which brought in forty shillings a year was permitted to vote for members of
							Parliament, but the disappearance of most of the small farmers had reduced the voters
							to the few who owned large estates. In the Scottish county of Bute, with its
							population of fourteen thousand inhabitants, there were twenty-one voters, of whom all
							but one were nonresidents. In 1831 the Lord Advocate declared: "At an election in
							Bute, not beyond the memory of man, only one person attended the meeting except the
							sheriff and the returning officer. He, of course, took the chair, constituted the
							meeting, called over the roll of freeholders, answered to -his own name, took the
							vote, and elected himself."

						Prevalence of bribery

						Bribery was prevalent and was fostered by the system of public balloting.1 By long-established custom the
							price of a vote at Hull was two guineas (something over ten dollars), at Stafford,
							seven.

						England really governed by an oligarchy

						Thus, through the gross inequalities in apportioning the members, the curious methods
							of balloting, open bribery, and ownership of boroughs, the House of Commons was
							ordinarily under the control of a comparatively few men. It was alleged in 1792 that
							one hundred and fifty-four patrons, forty of whom were peers, returned a majority of
							the house. A very cautious scholar of our own day estimates that not more than one
							third of the representatives in the House of Commons were fairly chosen.

						Proposals for reform before the nineteenth century

						The whole system was so obviously preposterous that it is not surprising that
							objections to it had long been common. As early as the middle of the eighteenth
							century the abuses were severely attacked, and during the democratic agitation which
							preceded and accompanied the French Revolution several attempts were made to induce
							Parliament to reform itself. The elder Pitt 1 Secret ballot was not established until
									1872.
							 (Lord Chatham), in 1770, and later his distinguished
							son, the younger Pitt, proposed changes which were, however, successfully opposed by
							those who were well content with the existing system.

						The French revolution puts an end for a time to hopes of reform in
							England

						The excesses of the French Convention during the Reign of Terror put an end to all
							hope of reform for some time. Even the more cool-headed and progressive among the
							English states men were discouraged by the apparently disastrous results in France of
							permitting the people at large to vote. Burke wrote a furious attack upon the
							Revolution, and the English government adopted harsh measures to prevent all agitation
							for reform.

						The "Peterloo massacre," 1819

						After the overthrow of Napoleon, orators, writers, and agitators redoubled their
							efforts to arouse the working classes to action. Hampden clubs were founded to
							propagate reform doctrines, and monster demonstrations and parades were organized to
							prove to the government the strength of the popular feeling. At one of these meetings
							in Manchester in 1819, the police and soldiers charged the populace without
							provocation and killed and wounded a large number.1 The government followed this up by a series of laws known
							as the Six Acts, which restricted the rights of free press, free speech, and public
							meeting.

						Merchants and manufacturers begin to urge reform

						This attempt at repression proved unavailing, for it was not only the working classes
							but the rich and powerful merchants and manufacturers as well who demanded the
							revision of a system which excluded them from political power. Under the leadership of
							Lord John Russell parliamentary reform was again and again urged in the Commons. The
							revolution of 1830 in France added impetus to the agitation in England, and that
							stanch Tory, the duke of Wellington, was led to resign his premiership under pressure
							of a growing public opinion that seemed verging on open violence.

						The passage of the Reform Bill of 1832

						A new ministry was organized, and in March, 1831, Lord John Russell introduced a
							reform bill into the House of 1 This assault, known as the "Peterloo massacre," occurred in St. Peter's
								Field, then on the outskirts, but now in the heart of Manchester.
							 Commons.1 The violent opposition which the measure encountered at
							the outset led to a dissolution of Parliament and to a general election. The result
							was a triumph for the reform party, which then carried the bill through the Commons by
							a substantial majority. It was, however, rejected by the House of Lords. The Commons
							then replied by passing another bill of the same character as the first, and the
							country awaited with breathless anxiety the action of the peers. Finally, King William
							IV granted permission to the prime minister "to create such a number of peers as will
							insure the passage of the reform bill." The lords, realizing that further opposition
							was useless, gave way, and in June, 1832, the long-debated bill became a law.

						Provisions of the Reform Bill of 1832

						According to its provisions fifty-six "rotten boroughs," each containing less than
							two thousand inhabitants, were entirely deprived of representation; thirty-two more,
							with less than four thousand inhabitants, lost one member each; and forty-three new
							boroughs were created with one or two members each, according to their respective
							populations. The counties were divided into election districts and assigned a
							representation corresponding more nearly than heretofore with the number of their
							inhabitants. The suffrage was given in the towns to all citizens who owned or rented
							houses worth ten pounds a year, and to renters as well as owners of lands of a certain value in the country. In this way the
							shopkeepers and manufacturers and some of the more prosperous people in the country
							were given the right to vote, but nearly all workingmen and agricultural laborers were
							still excluded from the franchise.

						The Reform Bill of 1832 far from a democratic measure

						The great Reform Bill of 1832 was therefore not really a triumph for democracy. It
							was estimated from official returns in 1836 that out of a total number of 6,023,752
							adult males there were only 839,519 voters. The thousands whose parades and
							demonstrations had frightened the duke of Wellington and 1 For Lord John Russell's speech on
								parliamentary reform, see Readings, Vol. II, pp. 239 sqq. A speech in opposition is printed on pp. 242 sqq.
							 the king into yielding were naturally dissatisfied with
							the outcome. The fact that those who came into power under the new bill showed little
							inclination to relieve the condition of the working classes, whose wages were pitiably
							low and whose homes were miserable hovels, added bitterness to their
							disappointment.

						The Chartist movement

						The Reform Bill had scarcely been signed before a veritable flood of pamphlet
							literature appeared, proposing more radical measures.1 Translations of Magna Carta and reprints of the Bill of
							Rights and the acts of the Long Parliament abolishing the House of Lords and the
							kingship were circulated as leaflets among the working classes. The reformers at last
							agreed on pressing six demands, which they embodied in a charter; to wit, universal
							suffrage, vote by secret ballot, annual parliaments, payment of members 'of
							Parliament, abolition of property qualifications for members of Parliament, and equal
							electoral districts. This charter soon won thousands of adherents to whom the name of
							"Chartists" was given. Local Chartist clubs were founded in every manufacturing town,
							and in 1840 a national Charter Association was organized for the purpose of federating
							the various clubs. Leaders of remarkable oratorical ability sprang into prominence;
							papers were established; Chartist songs and poems were composed, and national
							conventions assembled. Great meetings and parades were held all over England; the
							charter was transformed into a petition to which it was claimed that over a million
							signatures were obtained. This petition was presented to Parliament in 1839 only to be
							rejected by a large vote.2

						1 For extracts from
							contemporary pamphlets on the extension of the suffrage, see Readings, Vol. II, pp. 245 sqq.

						2 The Chartists were
							violently attacked by the opponents of their democratic proposals, which seem harmless
							enough to-day. In 1840 the Reverend E. Jenkins issued a book called Chartism Unmasked,
							in which he made the following observations: "What would you gain by universal
							suffrage? I am certain that you would gain nothing but universal confusion, universal
							setting of workmen against each other. .. . All workmen would then become politicians-
							they would neglect their vocations in life - spend their time, their strength their
							talents in what would increase their poverty. Vote by ballot would be nothing but a
							law for rogues and knaves, nothing but a cloak for dishonesty, insincerity, hypocrisy
							and lies. ... With respect to having members of Parliament paid and void of property
							qualifications -really this is too absurd for an idiot to be the author of it. ... The
							famous Chartist doctrine of Equality is diametrically opposed to Nature and the word
							of God; it is a doctrine taught only by lying prophets-- men who are of their father
							the Devil, for his works they do."

						

						Some of the Chartists advocate violence

						Despairing of securing reforms by peaceful means, many of the leaders began openly to
							advocate revolutionary violence, and rioting spread to such an extent that the
							government had to resort to extraordinary police measures to suppress it. Birmingham
							was for a time in the hands of revolutionists, and at Newport in 1839 twenty Chartists
							were shot in an attempt to seize the town and start an insurrection. Though the police
							were successful in quelling these armed uprisings, agitation continued, several
							Chartist members were elected to Parliament, and another petition was submitted to
							that body.

						Fina Chartist petition of 1848

						The revolution of 1848 in France and the establishment of the Second Republic gave
							the signal for the last great outburst of Chartist enthusiasm. Owing to the hard times
							in that year, thousands of workmen were unemployed, and the poor were roused to bitter
							hatred for a government that replied to demands for reform by police measures.
							Preparations were made to present another gigantic petition to the House of Commons,
							to which it was claimed that six million names had been secured, and the Chartist
							leaders determined to overawe Parliament by a march on London. Though this show of
							force was frustrated by Metternich's friend, the duke of Wellington, then commander of
							the troops policing London, the petition was finally presented to the House of
							Commons. It was there referred to a committee, which reported that there were less
							than two million names and that many of these were evident forgeries, such as
							"Victoria Rex," "the Duke of Wellington," "Pugnose," and "Snooks." The petition was
							thereby greatly discredited, and Parliament refused to take any action on it.
							Chartism, as an organized movement, thereupon collapsed.

						

						Gladstone espouses the cause of parliamentary reform in 1866

						The cause of parliamentary reform was not, however, lost with the failure of the
							Chartist movement. The doctrines of democracy had been spread among the people by the
							agitation, and from time to time advocates were found to introduce reform measures in
							the House of Commons. Although these proposals were easily defeated, there was a
							steadily growing recognition that some changes were inevitable, and at length, in
							1866, Gladstone, as leader of the House of Commons, made the question an issue of
							practical politics. Mr. Gladstone was then fifty-seven years old. He had entered
							Parliament as a Tory at the first election after the Reform Bill of 1832, and had
							quickly shown himself a commanding orator and a capable politician. At the end of a
							few years his views on public questions began to change, and at length he broke with
							the conservative traditions of his youth. In a debate on parliamentary reform in 1864
							he maintained that the burden of proof rested on those "who would exclude forty-nine
							fiftieths of the working classes from the franchise." The very next year the veteran
							reformer of 1832, Lord Russell, now elevated to the peerage, was called upon to form a
							new ministry, and he selected Gladstone as leader of the lower house.

						Disraeli succeeds Gladstone as leader of the House of Commons

						At the opening of Parliament in 1866 Gladstone proposed a moderate extension of the
							franchise, which was still based on property qualifications. This measure displeased
							many of Gladstone's followers because it went too far, and others because it did not
							go far enough. Consequently the cabinet felt compelled to resign, and a Conservative
							ministry was formed under the leadership of Lord Derby, who was represented in the
							House of Commons by Benjamin Disraeli (afterwards created Lord Beaconsfield), one of
							the most striking figures in the political life of England during the nineteenth
							century. When a young man of twenty-two he had sprung into prominence as the author of
							a successful novel, Vivian Grey, and at the age of thirty-three he
							entered upon his political career as a Conservative member of Parliament. His Jewish
							origin, his obtrusive 
							
								MEN RIOTING FOR THE SUFFRAGE IN HYDE PARK (1800)
							
							
							 style of dress, and his florid oratory immediately
							brought him into conspicuous notoriety; but those who laughed at him at first soon
							came to recognize him as a leader of great force and a politician of remarkable
							ability.

						Disraeli's reform bill of 1867 doubles the number of voters

						The Conservatives, as the old Tory party had come to be called, were alarmed by the
							general demand for reform and some rioting which took place in Hyde Park, but Disraeli
							was able to secure the passage of a reform bill in spite of the denunciations of some
							of his fellow-Conservatives and the smiles of the Liberals, who taunted him with
							advocating changes which he had long opposed.1 The new law of 1867 granted the right to vote to every
							adult male in the larger towns who occupied for twelve months, either as owner or
							tenant, a dwelling within the borough, and paid the local poor tax; also to lodgers
							who paid ten pounds or more a year for unfurnished rooms. In the country it permitted
							those to vote who owned property which produced an income of at least five pounds net
							a year, and all renters paying at least twelve pounds annually. This served to double
							the previous number of voters.2

						Extension of the franchise in 1884

						In 1884 the Liberal party, again under Gladstone's leadership, resolved to carry
							still further the reforms of 1832 and 1867, for over two million men, chiefly
							agricultural laborers, were denied the right to vote.3 By extending the suffrage to them the Liberals hoped to
							gain their support to offset the control of the rural districts which had hitherto
							been enjoyed by the Conservatives. The new law which they succeeded in passing
							provided that the franchise established for the larger towns in 1867 should be
							extended to all towns, and to the country districts as well, thus introducing general
							uniformity 1 Extracts
								from a contemporary speech against giving the vote to workingmen are given in the
									Readings, Vol. II, pp. 251 sqq.
							2 It may be said here,
								once for all, that in England, as in most European countries, it is customary to
								exclude from the suffrage all paupers, criminals, the insane, and certain other
								classes of persons.
							3 For Gladstone's speech
								on suffrage in 1884, see Readings, Vol. II, pp. 255 sqq.
							 throughout the United Kingdom. While this measure
							seemed to establish something approaching the manhood suffrage already common on the
							Continent, many men are still excluded from voting, especially unmarried laborers who,
							owing to the low rents in England, do not pay as much as ten pounds (fifty dollars) a
							year for unfurnished lodgings. On account of the dissatisfaction with this system the
							Liberal government in 1912 introduced in Parliament a new reform bill which, if
							passed, will practically establish universal manhood suffrage.
					

					
						THE ENGLISH CABINET

						The position of the English sovereign

						66. These reforms, which permit a large number of voters to select
							the members of the House of Commons, have left untouched, so far as appearances are
							concerned, the ancient and honorable institutions of the king and the House of
								Lords.1 The sovereign is
							crowned with traditional pomp; coins and proclamations still assert that he rules "by
							the grace of God"; and laws purport to be enacted "by the king's most excellent
							Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal and
							Commons in Parliament assembled." Justice is executed and the colonies are governed in
							the name of the king. The term "royal" is still applied to the army, the navy, and the
							mail service, reserving, as a wit once remarked, the word "national" only for the
							public debt.

						Parliament really controls the English government

						There was a time, of course, when the highest prerogatives were really exercised by
							the king of England. Henry VIII, for example, appointed his own ministers and
							dismissed them at will. He made war and peace at his pleasure, and exercised such an
							influence on the elections that Parliament was filled with his supporters. The long
							struggle, however, between the king and the Parliament in the seventeenth century, and
							the circumstances of the Revolution of 1688 which placed William and Mary on the
							throne, made Parliament the predominant 1 For recent attacks on the Lords, see below, chap.
								xxiv.
							 element in the English government. The king is still
							legally empowered to veto any bill passed by Parliament, but he never exercises this
							power. He has in reality only the right to be consulted, the right to encourage, and
							the right to warn. He cannot permanently oppose the wishes of the majority in
							Parliament, for should he venture to do so, he could always be brought to terms by
							cutting off the appropriations necessary to conduct his government.

						The cabinet

						The king of England must now act through a ministry composed of the important
							officers of the government, such as the first lord of the treasury, the foreign
							secretary, the colonial secretary, the secretary of the war department, with the prime
							minister as their head.1 The
							development of this ministry, which is known as the cabinet, has been described in an
							earlier chapter.2 It was pretty
							firmly established under George I and George II, who were glad to let others manage
							the government for them. While the king nominally appoints the members of the cabinet,
							that body is in reality a committee selected from the party which has a majority in
							the House of Commons. The reasons for this were also explained earlier in dealing with
							the English government in the eighteenth century and need not be repeated here.

						How the members of the cabinet are chosen

						The party which secures the majority in a parliamentary election is entitled to place
							its members in all the important government offices. The party leaders hold an
							informal caucus and agree on a prime minister, who then takes one of the cabinet
							offices. After the party has chosen its leader he is appointed to some high office
							(acceptable to him as prime minister) by the king, who charges him with the task of
							naming, with the advice of his political associates, the other occupants of cabinet
							positions, who may be selected from among the lords as well as the commons, or from
							among distinguished men outside of Parliament. Thus it comes about that, unlike 1 Gladstone's description of
								the cabinet system is given in Readings, Vol. II, pp. 258 sqq.
							2 See
									above, pp. 49 sqq.
							 the President of the United States and his cabinet, who
							must communicate with Congress through messages, reports, or other indirect means, the
							prime minister and the heads of departments in England themselves sit in Parliament
							and can therefore present and defend their own proposals.

						The cabinet acts as a unit

						The body of officials so constituted draft the more important measures to be laid
							before Parliament and decide on the foreign and domestic policy to be pursued by the
							government. At the opening of each session of Parliament the general programme of the
							cabinet is laid before the House of Lords and the House of Commons in the form of the
							"king's speech," which is read by the sovereign or his representative. In its secret
							sessions the head of each department presents to the cabinet the measures which he
							recommends in his particular branch of the government. If, after discussion, these are
							approved by a majority of the other members, they are submitted to the House of
							Commons. In all matters the cabinet acts as a unit, and whenever a member cannot agree
							with the majority on an important point he is bound to resign. The cabinet, therefore,
							presents a united front to Parliament and the country. An interesting illustration of
							this is to be found in the story told of Lord Melbourne when prime minister. His
							cabinet was divided on the question of the duty on grain, and with his back against
							the door, he declared to them: "Now, is it to lower the price of corn, or is n't it?
							It does not matter much what we say, but mind, we must all say the same thing."

						How ministries rise and fall

						Whenever the House of Commons expresses its disapproval of the policy of the
							ministry, either by defeating an important measure or by a direct vote of censure, the
							cabinet is bound to do one of two things. It may resign in a body and thus give way to
							a new ministry made up from the opposite party. If, however, the ministers feel that
							their policy has popular support outside of Parliament, they may "go to the country";
							that is to say, they may ask the king to dissolve the existing Parliament and order a
							new election in the hope that  the people may indicate
							its approval of their policy by electing their supporters. The further action of the
							ministry is then determined by the outcome of the election. The return of a majority
							of members in favor of the ministerial policy is taken as justification for retaining
							office. On the other hand, a failure to gain a majority is the signal for the
							resignation of the entire ministry and the transference of power to their
							opponents.

						The English government more under the influence of public opinion
							than that of the United States

						As the members of the House of Commons are not elected for a definite term of years
							(though according to law elections must be held at least every five years), that body
							may be dissolved at any time for the purpose of securing an expression of the popular
							will on any important issue. It is thus clear that the British government is more
							sensitive to public opinion than are governments where the members of the legislatures
							are chosen for a definite term of years. For example, in the United States,
							Congressmen are elected for two years and Senators for six; consequently when a crisis
							arises it usually has to be settled by men who were not chosen according to their
							views on that particular question, while in England a new election can be held with
							direct reference to the special issue at hand.

						The House of Lords

						Nevertheless, the reader will naturally ask, how is it that the British government
							can be so democratic and yet retain, in its upper house, a body of hereditary peers
							responsible to no constituents? The explanation is that the House of Commons, by
							reason of its ancient and exclusive right of initiating all money bills, can control
							the king and force him, if necessary, to create enough new peers to pass any measure
							blocked by the House of Lords. In practice the king does not have to do more than
							threaten such a measure to bring the House of Lords to terms.

						Unpopularity of the House of Lords

						Although many bills have been defeated in the House of Lords during the nineteenth
							century, a sort of constitutional understanding has grown up that the upper house must
							yield to an unmistakable and definite expression of public opinion  in favor of a measure which it has previously opposed.
							However, the House of Lords is increasingly unpopular with a large class in England.
							Its members for the most part take little or no interest in their duties and rarely
							attend the sessions. The opposition of the peers to the educational bill introduced in
							1906, and also to the budget of i909, again raised the question of the abolition or
							complete reorganization of the upper house, and a compromise was reached in the
							Parliament Act of 1911 by which, under certain circumstances, the House of Commons may
							force a bill through in spite of the Lords.1

						English political parties

						The smooth working of the English cabinet system may be partially attributed to the
							fact that during the nineteenth century there were only two political parties
							represented in Parliament,-- the Conservatives, who dropped the name Tory after the
							first parliamentary reform, and the Liberals, who abandoned the name of Whig about the
							same time. The leaders of the former party came principally from the aristocracy and
							landed proprietors, while the latter found its chiefs among the middle classes. These
							two parties were alternately in power, and it was not until 1906 that their joint
							monopoly of politics was threatened by the election of over fifty labor members, some
							of whom are organized into a solid group acting independently. The Irish party, of
							course, stands firmly for home rule but is willing to cooperate with other parties,
							especially the Liberals, to obtain its ends. At the present juncture it appears
							possible that England may develop a many-party system comparable to that existing in
							the countries of the Continent.
					

					
						SOCIAL REFORMS

						67. While England was transforming herself into a democracy by
							remodeling her Parliament and her local government, the people gradually gained the
							right freely to discuss political questions in the newspapers and in public meetings,
							and to 1 See below, chap. xxiv.
								
							 express religious opinions differing from those
							sanctioned by the government without thereby sacrificing the possibility of holding
							office.

						Taxes on newspapers and other publications

						Freedom of the press from governmental censorship is commonly regarded as having been
							established in 1695 by the refusal of Parliament to renew an old law providing for
							such control. However, in times of disturbance the government adopted repressive
							measures, as, for instance, during the French Revolution and in 1819, when there was
							extensive popular agitation. Moreover the stamp duties on newspapers and
							advertisements hampered the publication of cheap journals for the diffusion of
							political information among the masses and were systematically used by the government
							for this purpose. In 1819 the tax was extended even to leaflets and tracts which had
							hitherto been allowed free circulation. The necessity of paying an eight-cent tax on
							each copy made the average price of a newspaper fourteen cents, while the price of the
							London Times was eighteen cents. In addition to these stamp duties
							there was a special tax on paper, which increased its cost about fifty per cent.

						Taxes on the press

						These "taxes on knowledge," as they were called, were attacked by those who advocated
							popular education, and by the political reformers who wanted cheap newspapers through
							which to carry on agitation.1
							Some opponents of the stamp tax openly violated the law, but the more moderate wing
							set about securing a repeal of the obnoxious taxes by Parliament. At length, in 1833
							the tax on advertisements, and in 1836 the stamp taxes, were reduced, bringing the
							price of most London papers down to ten cents. Twenty years later these taxes were
							swept away altogether, and in 1861 the duty on printing paper was removed, and thus
							England secured a free press. The government, however, does not give low postal rates
							to the newspapers as in the United States.

						1 For Bulwer-Lytton's
							speech in favor of a free press, see Readings, Vol. II, pp. 270 sqq.

						

						Freedom of the press

						No less important to democracy than freedom of the press is the right to hold public
							meetings and to criticise the government. In common with other European monarchies,
							England, in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, imprisoned, and otherwise
							severely punished, those who spoke disrespectfully of the king and Parliament. During
							the eighteenth century, particularly in the period of the French Revolution, the
							English government severely stamped out all open criticism, and again in 1819, owing
							to the violent agitation for parliamentary reform, police surveillance was established
							over public meetings and the press. At length, however, the government, finding its
							efforts futile, gave up altogether attempts to silence the press. Thus by the middle
							of the century freedom of speech was established, and now any one may write or say
							anything "which a jury consisting of twelve shopkeepers think it expedient should be
							said or written."

						Religious liberty

						It was natural that, in the midst of this general movement for political liberty and
							freedom of the press, the Dissenters and Catholics should have put in a claim for the
							abolition of the laws which placed them under many disabilities. The Dissenters,
							although they enjoyed a certain liberty of religious worship, were excluded from
							municipal offices and from all places of trust, civil and military, in the government,
							although, curiously enough, they were not forbidden to sit in Parliament-- a
							disability imposed on Catholics in addition to exclusion from public offices. The
							rapid increase of the dissenting sects in wealth, numbers, and influence, especially
							after the appearance of the Methodists, at last forced Parliament to respect their
							demand, and in 1828 the old laws against them were repealed, and they were admitted
							freely to public offices on condition that they would take an oath "upon the true
							faith of a Christian" not to use their influence to injure or weaken the Established
							Church. The following year the Catholics secured the passage of the famous
							Emancipation Act, which admitted them to both houses of Parliament and to practically
							all municipal and government  offices, upon condition
							that they would take an oath renouncing the temporal supremacy of the Pope and
							disclaiming any intention of injuring the Protestant religion.1

						Religion and the schools

						These reforms by no means took religious controversies out of politics in England,
							for the religious sects are still at war over the question as to who shall control the
							schools. Anglicans, Catholics, and Dissenters during the nineteenth century built
							schoolhouses and maintained schools of their own, and when the demand for free popular
							education became so strong that in 1870 the government provided for the erection and
							equipment of schools at public expense, religious bodies began to contend among
							themselves for a representation on the school boards having charge of the government
							schools. All of the sects agreed that education without religious instruction was bad,
							but they differed hotly on the particular kind of religious instruction that should be
							given. The problem of how to satisfy the demands of the several bitterly contending
							sects constitutes one of the main issues of English politics at the present time.
							Nevertheless, the efficiency of the schools has steadily increased, and there has been
							a corresponding decline in illiteracy. In 1843 thirty-two per cent of the men and
							forty-nine per cent of the women had to sign their names in the marriage registers
							with a cross. In 1903 only two per cent of the men and three per cent of the women
							were unable to write their own names in the registers.

						The brutal criminal law

						While some reformers were busy with securing freedom of the press and removing
							religious disabilities, others were attacking the brutal criminal law, which, at the
							opening of the nineteenth century, as an English writer has observed, sacrificed the
							lives of men with a reckless barbarity worthier of an Eastern despot than of a
							Christian state.2 This drastic
							code included no less than two hundred and fifty offenses, for which the death 1 For speeches for and
								against religious toleration, see Readings, Vol. II, pp. 274 sqq.
							2 See Readings, Vol. II, pp. 279 sqq.
							 penalty was imposed. In 1815 a young woman was executed
							for stealing a trifling article, the judge declaring that he wanted to make an example
							of her; and some years later a boy nine years old was sentenced to death for breaking
							a window and stealing four cents' worth of paint from a shop. It is estimated that
							between 1810 and 1845 there were fourteen hundred executions for acts which were not
							regarded as capital offenses after the latter date. The treatment of the prisoners in
							the overcrowded jails, where young and old, hardened criminals and little children,
							and men and women were crowded together, was so atrocious as to be well-nigh
							indescribable.

						Reform of the criminal law

						It required many years of agitation, however, to move the British Parliament, and it
							was only by the gradual process of abolishing one death sentence after another that
							the long list of capital offenses was at last reduced to three in 1861. For example,
							the act making it a capital offense to steal five shillings or more from a shop was
							repealed in 1820; and in 1823 transportation to a penal colony was substituted for the
							death penalty in cases of making false entries in marriage registers. In 1835, after a
							parliamentary investigation had revealed the horrible conditions of prisons, a law was
							passed providing for government inspection and the improvement of their
							administration, and this marked the beginning of prison reform, which includes
							sanitary buildings, separation of the sexes and of the hardened criminals from the
							younger offenders, and a more enlightened treatment of criminals generally, with a
							view to reform them and protect society rather than to wreak vengeance upon them.

						Wretchedness of life in the English factories

						The cruelty of the criminal law had its origin in the Middle Ages, but with the
							coming of the Industrial Revolution in the reign of George III new forms of inhumanity
							had arisen. These were the result of the factory system, which brought untold misery
							to the working classes of England.1 Great factory buildings were hastily erected by men ignorant of the most
							elementary 1 For extracts
								from parliamentary reports on conditions in the factories, see Readings, Vol. II, pp. 282 sqq.
							 principles of sanitary science, and often too
							avaricious to care for anything but space enough to operate the machines and light
							enough to enable the laborers to do their work. Around the factories there sprang up
							long, dreary rows of grimy brick cottages, where the workmen and their families were
							crowded together. To these industrial centers flocked thousands of landless and
							homeless men and women dependent upon the factory owners for the opportunity to earn
							their daily bread. Fluctuations in trade caused long periods of enforced idleness,
							which resulted in great uncertainty in the life of the workman.

						Horrors of child labor

						The introduction of steam-driven machinery had made possible the use of child labor
							on a large scale, and it was the condition of the children which first attracted the
							attention of philanthropists and reformers. Thousands of little paupers were taken
							from the poorhouses and nominally apprenticed, but practically sold, to the
							proprietors of the mills. Nor were pauper children the only ones to suffer. Necessity
							or greed on the part of the parents, and the demand for "cheap labor" on the part of
							the manufacturers, brought thousands of other children into industrial life.
							Parliamentary reports tell us of children under five years of age working in the
							mines, of coal drawers but little older crawling on hands and knees through narrow
							subterranean passages, dragging heavy carts of coal, and of mere lads laboring in pin
							mills at high tension for twelve hours a day.

						General misery of the factory hands and operatives in the
							mines

						The conditions of adult labor, save in the most skilled classes, were almost as
							wretched as those of child labor. Women and girls were employed in great numbers in
							mills and even in the dark and dangerous recesses of the mines, which were badly
							ventilated and perilous to work in; dangerous machinery was not properly safeguarded,
							and the working time was excessively prolonged. The misery of the poor is reflected in
							Mrs. Browning's poem, "The Cry of the Children," in the bitter scorn which Carlyle
							poured out on the heads of the factory owners, in the impassioned pages of Kingsley's
								Alton Locke, and in the vivid word pictures of Dickens.

						

						Opposition of economists and statesmen to factory legislation

						The working classes were excluded from representation in Parliament, they were denied
							opportunities for education, and the statesmen of the time refused to take action in
							their behalf until after long and violent agitation. In this refusal Parliament was
							supported by the economic theorists,-- Malthus, Ricardo, and others,-- who defended
							the rights of mill owners as Bossuet had defended the divine right of kings.

						Parliament at last begins to adopt reforms

						Ardent reformers disregarding the advice of the theorists, and discontented workmen
							filling the country with riot, at last forced Parliament to undertake to improve
							conditions. Indeed, the bad ventilation, scanty food, long hours, and lack of
							sanitation led to the spread of epidemics in the factory districts, and action could
							not longer be delayed without endangering the health of the well-to-do. Parliament,
							however, at first refused to do more than assume some responsibility for the pauper
							apprentices, by passing an act (1802) reducing the hours of labor for such children to
							seventy-two per week, and making some other regulations on their behalf, such as
							compelling employers to furnish at least one suit of clothes a year.

						Robert Owen

						An unselfish champion of the working class now appeared in the person of Robert Owen,
							a successful manufacturer, who had shown by experiments the advantages of treating
							employees with consideration. Beginning in 1815, he labored for four years to secure
							the passage of an effective measure in the interests of children. His appeal to the
							manufacturers for support of his factory legislation was, however, unavailing, and the
							outcome of his efforts was the mutilation of his original bill beyond recognition in
							an act of 1819, which merely forbade the employment in the cotton mills of children
							under nine, and limited the working time for those between nine and sixteen to twelve
							hours per day.

						The report of the factory commission appointed by Parliament in
							1832

						New advocates of factory reform continued to urge additional measures on Parliament.
							Among these were Richard Oastler, Thomas Sadler, John Fielden, and Lord Ashley, to
							whose unselfish and untiring labors was largely due the 'creation of the  public opinion which induced Parliament in 1832 to
							appoint a select commission for the purpose of investigating the whole question of
							factory legislation. The following year it made an unqualified report in favor of
							interference on behalf of children employed in factories, which resulted in a new bill
							still further reducing the working hours for children and providing for the first time
							for regular factory inspectors. In 1842 Lord Ashley carried through Parliament a
							mining law which forbade the employment of women and children in underground
							occupations.

						Agitation for a ten-hour day for women and children

						These laws did not satisfy the reformers, and they now began to work for another
							measure, restricting the labor of women and children in mills to ten hours per day
							exclusive of meal times. This proposition gave rise to a heated contest in the House
							of Commons between manufacturers and landed proprietors. In vain did John Bright
							(champion of the abolition of slavery in the United States) denounce the proposition
							as " most injurious and destructive to the best interests of the country," "a delusion
							practiced upon the working classes," and "one of the worst measures ever passed."1 Smarting under the action of the
							manufacturers in forcing free trade upon them,2 the landed proprietors rejoiced in this opportunity to
							retaliate, and in 1847 the ten-hour bill for women and children became a law. In
							practice it applied to all adults as well, for the mills could not run after the women
							and children had stopped working.

						John Morley's description of England's measure for protecting the
							laboring classes

						With this great victory for the reformers the general resistance to state
							interference was broken down, and year after year new measures were carried through
							Parliament, revising and supplementing earlier laws, until to-day England does more
							than any other European country to protect the factory operatives. In the language of
							Lord Morley, England has "a complete, minute, voluminous code for the protection of
							labor; buildings must be kept clear of effluvia; dangerous machinery must be fenced;
							children and young persons must not clean it while 1 Extracts from Bright's speech are given in
									Readings, Vol. II, pp. 285 sq.
							2 See below, p. 404 .
							 in motion; their hours are not only limited but fixed;
							continuous employment must not exceed a given number of hours, varying with the trade,
							but prescribed by law in given cases; a statutable number of holidays is imposed; the
							children must go to school, and the employer must every week have a certificate to
							that effect; if an accident happens, notice must be sent to the proper authorities;
							special provisions are made for bake houses, for lacemaking, for collieries, and for a
							whole schedule of other special callings; for the due enforcement and vigilant
							supervision of this code of minute prescriptions, there is an immense host of
							inspectors, certifying surgeons, and other authorities, whose business it is to 'speed
							and post o'er land and ocean' in restless guardianship of every kind of labor, from
							that of the woman who plaits straw at her cottage door to the miner who descends into
							the bowels of the earth, and the seaman who conveys the fruits and materials of
							universal industry to and fro between the remotest parts of the globe." Important as
							are the measures thus summarized, far more revolutionary legislation for the working
							class has been enacted during the last decade than during the entire nineteenth
								century.1
					

					
						FREE TRADE

						Policy of protection in England before the nineteenth century

						68. From the fourteenth century onward England endeavored, by high
							tariffs, navigation laws, and numerous other measures, to protect her manufacturers,
							farmers, and ship owners against foreign competition. Special tariffs were imposed on
							the manufactured goods of other countries; bounties were paid from the government
							treasury to encourage various forms of commercial enterprise; Englishmen were obliged
							to import their goods from the colonies in English ships, no matter how much cheaper
							they could get them carried by Dutch merchantmen; and high duties were imposed on
							grain.

						Manufacturers demand a repeal of the duties on grain

						Adam Smith and other economists denounced this system of protection and advocated
							free trade. However, the immediate 1 See below, chap. xxiv.
								
							 impetus to the movement for abolishing protective
							duties and opening British markets freely to the products of all nations was given by
							the objections of the owners of the new factories to the tariffs on grain, which, they
							argued, made the bread of their workmen dear and prevented undeveloped countries from
							procuring English manufactures in exchange for their bread-stuffs. They contended, for
							example, that Russians and Americans would be happy to buy English cloth, shoes, and
							cutlery, if they could freely send to England, in return, a portion of their great
							crops of wheat, rye, oats, and barley. Having little fear of foreign competition in
							their industries, and owning no land, they wanted no protection for themselves or the
							farmers.

						The Corn Laws

						The manufacturers began, therefore, to attack the Corn Laws,1 as the tariff acts protecting grain were
							called. The duties on grain had been made especially high after 1815, when the fall of
							the inflated war prices threatened to ruin the farmers. One measure even forbade the
							importation of wheat altogether whenever its price in England was below two dollars
							and a half a bushel, and later acts attempted to keep the price high by a sliding
							scale of duties according to which the tariff varied with the price; that is, when the
							price of wheat rose too high in England, the tariff would be lowered to admit foreign
							grain, but when English prices were low the tariff would be raised to check foreign
							competition and so benefit the farmers.

						The Anti-Corn Law League, 1838

						To secure the repeal of these duties on grain and to propagate the principles of free
							trade generally, the manufacturers founded in 1838 the Anti-Corn Law League, and for
							almost ten years this organization, under the brilliant leadership of Cobden2 and Bright, carried on one of
							the most thoroughgoing campaigns of popular education in the history of democracy,
							expending in one year over a million dollars in publications and meetings. The attack
							was concentrated on the Corn Laws 1 The term "corn," usually confined to Indian corn, or maize,
								in the United States, is commonly used in England to mean grain in general.
							2 Some of Cobden's
								arguments against the Corn Laws are given in the Readings, Vol.
								II, pp. 287 sqq.
							 because it was easier to rouse feeling against the
							landlords than in favor of any abstract theories of political economy. It was a war on
							the landed aristocracy.

						Sir Robert Peel carries the repeal of the Corn Law, 1846, and opens
							the way to free trade

						The agitation was brought to a crisis in 1845 by a failure of crops in England and a
							potato famine in Ireland, which raised the price of food stuffs enormously and brought
							thousands to the verge of starvation, especially in Ireland. In the midst of such
							distress it appeared to thinking men nothing short of criminal to maintain high prices
							of grain by law. Consequently Sir Robert Peel, then prime minister, determined that
							the Corn Laws must go, in spite of the fact that he had hitherto defended them, and in
							1846 he succeeded in carrying through Parliament a law which led to their practical
							repeal. Though compelled to resign immediately after the passage of this bill, Peel
							had given the whole protective system in England its death blow, since it was chiefly
							the tariff on grain that could claim any really active defenders.

						Free trade established, 1852-1867

						Within ten years all of the old navigation laws were abolished and English ports
							opened freely to the ships of other nations. Gladstone, as Chancellor of the Exchequer
							in 1852, removed the duties on one hundred and twenty-three articles entirely, and
							reduced them on one hundred and thirty-three more. On his return to office, some
							fifteen years later, he made a clean sweep of all protective duties,
							retaining, for revenue purposes, those on tea, wines, cocoa, and a few other
							articles.

						Tendency toward free trade in Europe followed by a reaction in the
							seventies

						The tendency toward free trade was not confined to England. Indeed, until the
							seventies, it looked as if a network of commercial treaties, combined with low
							tariffs, would carry all Europe into a free-trade policy. The liberals in France under
							Napoleon III favored it, and, as we have seen, Germany had accepted it in a modified
							form until Bismarck's tariff law of 1879. At last, however, a reaction set in. The
							protectionists rose to power in the continental countries; the United States converted
							what was once regarded as a temporary policy of encouraging infant industries and of
							increasing the revenue  during the Civil War into a
							permanent policy of high protection; and foreign competitors, having free access to
							England's markets, began to undersell her at home as well as abroad.

						Growing dissatisfaction with free trade in England

						This radical change in the economic conditions in the continental countries and the
							United States has convinced many Englishmen that some alteration will have to be made
							in England's free-trade policy. In the election of 1906 Mr. Chamberlain sought to make
							the establishment of some form of a protective tariff the leading campaign issue, and
							although the free traders carried the day, the arguments of the protectionists will
							doubtless continue to be urged with ever greater insistence.
					

					
						THE IRISH QUESTION

						69. In addition to the important problems the English have had to
							solve at home, they have been constantly involved in perplexities in their dealings
							with the Irish, who belong to the Celtic race and differ essentially from their
							English neighbors in sentiments and traditions. The principal troubles with Ireland
							have been over the land question, the disestablishment of the English Church in
							Ireland, and Home Rule.

						The land question

						The first of these questions, the land question, grew out of the fact that Ireland
							had been frequently invaded by the English, and Irish estates had been handed over to
							English warriors, fortune hunters, and royal favorites. These invasions dated back to
							the twelfth century, when, under Henry II (1154-1189), certain eastern districts,
							known as the "Pale," were wrested from the Irish. In the sixteenth century, during the
							reign of Queen Elizabeth, a revolt of the Irish led to new conquests and the seizure
							of more estates by the English. Half a century later, when the Puritans were
							quarreling with Charles I, the Irish made another attempt to throw off English rule,
							but they were severely punished by Cromwell, who scourged the country with fire and
							sword and made a new and still more extensive confiscation of their lands. Again,
							during  the troubles of the English Revolution of 1688,
							the Irish were severely punished for taking the part of the Catholic king, James II,
							and were again conquered and more lands were taken from them.

						Now the English landlords, to whom these estates were given, and their descendants,
							for the most part, lived in England. In the nineteenth century millions of pounds
							yearly were drained away from Ireland to pay absentee landlords, who rarely set foot
							in that country and took little or no interest in their tenants beyond the collection
							of their rents. If the tenants did not pay or could not pay, they were speedily
							evicted from their cottages and lands. It was estimated in 1847 that about one third
							of the entire rental of Ireland was paid to absentee landlords.

						The condition of the peasantry

						Throughout large portions of Ireland the peasants were constantly on the verge of
							starvation. They were deprived of nearly all incentive to work at the improvement of
							their little holdings, because they were liable to be evicted and lose the results of
							their own labors. Whenever there was a failure of the potato crop, on which from one
							third to one half the population depended for food, there were scenes of misery in
							Ireland which defy description. This was the case in the "Black Year of Forty-Seven,"
							when the potato crop failed almost entirely and thousands died of starvation in spite
							of the relief afforded by the government.1 It was in the midst of this terrible famine that the
							stream of emigration began to flow toward America. Within half a century four million
							emigrants left the shores of Ireland for other countries, principally the United
							States, taking with them their bitter resentment against England.

						The Protestant Established Church in Ireland

						The second source of trouble in Ireland was the Established Church. When England
							adopted the Protestant faith an attempt was made to force it upon the Irish, who
							however clung 1 For
								contemporary accounts of suffering during famines in Ireland, see Readings, Vol. II, pp. 297 sqq.
							 steadfastly to the Pope and their ancient Church. The
							monasteries were suppressed, the monks driven out and their lands seized and handed
							over to Protestants. Catholic clergy were expelled from their parishes and Protestant
							priests installed in their places, to be supported by tithes collected from a people
							still loyal to their old faith. Even in the darkest days of the nineteenth century,
							when Irish peasants were starving, the Established Church in Ireland continued to draw
							its ample revenues from the tithes and endowments, although its members numbered but
							one tenth of the population. These tithes, however, were collected from the peasants
							only with the utmost difficulty and pitched battles were often fought between them and
							the police when the latter undertook to drive off the last cow to pay the dues to the
							hated priest of an alien faith.1

						Disestablishment of the English Church

						It is small wonder, therefore, that the Irish were deeply embittered on the religious
							question and began a movement to overthrow the Anglican Church in their midst. By the
							Catholic Emancipation Act, mentioned above, Irish Catholics, along with the English
							Catholics, had been admitted to Parliament, as well as to other public offices; and
							they carried on an agitation which ended in 1869 in the passage of an act by
							Parliament which disestablished the English Church in Ireland and abolished its
								tithes.2 The Anglicans,
							however, were allowed to retain the beautiful buildings which had been seized during
							the period of the Reformation, and the clergy were recompensed for the loss of the
							tithes, which they found it difficult to collect, by a large grant of money from the
							government.

						Although the burden of the tithes was thus removed from the peasants, the evils of
							absentee landlordism were not mitigated; and finding themselves victorious in the
							struggle against the Anglican Church they undertook an agitation for a drastic land
							reform.

						1 For extracts from
							parliamentary reports showing the difficulties of collecting tithes, see Readings, Vol. II, pp. 293 sqq.

						2 For John Bright's plea
							for disestablishment, see Readings, Vol. II, pp. 295 sq.

						

						Parnell and the Land League, 1879

						In 1879 a great Land League, with Charles Stewart Parnell, a member of Parliament, at
							its head, was established with the aim of securing three things for the Irish
							peasant,-- fair rent, fixed holding, and fair sale; that is to say, they asked for
							legislation providing that the rent should not be fixed by the landlord at any amount
							he thought he could get, but by a court taking into consideration the fair value of
							the land; that the tenant should hold as long as he paid the rent so fixed; and
							finally that, in case he surrendered his holding, he should be allowed to sell his
							improvements to the tenant who succeeded him.

						The Irish land acts, 1881-1903

						Parnell, with the support of the Irish members in Parliament, resorted to
							"filibustering" until that body was forced in 1881 to pass a land act granting these
							three demands. This measure has been supplemented by land-purchase acts by which the
							government puts at the disposal of the tenants money to buy their holdings, with the
							privilege of repayment on the installment plan. One of these acts, passed in 1903
							during the administration of Mr. Balfour, appropriates a practically unlimited amount
							for this purpose, and offers a considerable inducement to landlords to sell, so that
							the land question seems in a fair way to be settled to the satisfaction of the
								peasantry.1

						Home Rule

						The third source of trouble between England and Ireland has been the contest over
							Home Rule. Until 18oi Ireland had maintained a separate parliament of her own; but in
							that year the English government determined to suppress it, because it enjoyed a
							larger degree of independence than was deemed compatible with the security of English
							rule. The Act of Union of 18oi abolished the Irish parliament and provided that
							Ireland should be represented by one hundred members in the House of Commons and, in
							the House of Lords, by twenty-eight peers chosen by the Irish baronage. This Act of
							Union was really forced upon the Irish by gross bribery of members of their 1 The Land-Purchase Act of
								1885, passed by Lord Salisbury, set apart twenty-five million dollars; that of 1888,
								a second sum of the same amount; that of 1891 devoted one hundred and seventy
								million dollars to the purchase of lands, and that of 1903 an almost unlimited
								sum.
							 parliament, and consequently the Irish patriots
							resented it. Accordingly, they at once began an agitation for Home Rule, that is, for
							a parliament of their own in which they can legislate on their own affairs instead of
							being forced to rely upon the British Parliament, where the English and the Scotch
							have an overwhelming majority.

						Daniel O'Connell

						The repeal of the Act of Union was warmly urged by Daniel O'Connell after the
							emancipation of 1829, and at the general election of 1834 forty members of Parliament
							favored Home Rule. In 1842 The Nation was founded to champion the
							cause, and a staff of brilliant writers were engaged to voice it. A Repeal Association
							was organized, monster meetings, said to have been attended by half a million people,
							were arranged by O'Connell, and the examples of Belgium and Greece in winning
							independence were cited as indications of what the Irish might do. All Ireland seemed
							on the verge of rebellion, and Irish Americans planned an invasion of Canada. The
							British government met this agitation by stationing thirty-five thousand troops in the
							island, and O'Connell, in spite of his violent and inflammatory speeches, shrank from
							the test of civil war.

						Gladstone espouses the cause of Irish Home Rule, 1886

						O'Connell died in 1847, but the cause of Home Rule did not perish with him, for it
							was taken up by the Fenians and the Land League and thus kept steadily before the
							people. In 1882 a decided impetus to the movement was given by the shocking murder of
							Lord Frederick Cavendish and Thomas Burke, the undersecretary for Ireland, in Phcenix
							Park, Dublin. This deed aroused the horror of the civilized world and convinced
							Gladstone that nothing short of Home Rule could solve the perennial Irish problem.
							After the parliamentary election of 1886, which gave him a small majority in the
							Commons and made him dependent upon the Irish members for their support, he undertook
							to secure the repeal of the Act of Union.1 Many of his followers, who did not believe 1 Extracts from Gladstone's
								speech on Home Rule in i886 are given in the Readings, Vol. II,
								pp. 301 sq.
							 in the policy of Home Rule, broke away from his
							leadership and formed the party of the Liberal Unionists, thus defeating the bill by
							about thirty votes. Seven years later, when Gladstone was again in power, he brought
							forward a new Home Rule bill providing that the Irish should have a parliament of
							their own at Dublin and also retain representation in that of the United Kingdom. This
							bill, though passed by the Commons, was rejected by the House of Lords. For some years
							thereafter the issue almost dropped out of English politics, but the majority of the
							Irish members of Parliament have continued to agitate the question, and Liberal
							victories in the elections of 1906 and 1910 again raised hopes for Irish independence.
							Indeed, it appears that some form of Home Rule will be granted in the immediate
							future, for at the present time (summer of 1912) the proposal is under discussion in
							Parliament.
					

					
						REFERENCES
								Parliament at the Opening of the Nineteenth Century: Extract
									from WALPOLE, History of England since 1815,
									in BEARD, Introduction to the English
										Historians, pp. 538-548; SEIGNOBOS, Political History of Europe since 1814, pp. 10-18 ; HAZEN, Europe since 1815, pp. 409-415.
								The Reform Bill of 1832: Extract from WALPOLE, History of England since 1815, in BEARD, pp. 549-565; ROSE, Rose of Democracy
										in England, pp. 9-52; LEE, Source Book of
										English History, pp. 519-529 ; TERRY, A
										History of England, pp. 990-995; HAZEN, pp.
									428-438.
								The Chartist Movement: ROSE, pp. 84-146;
										LEE, pp. 530-539; HAZEN, pp.
									446-450.
								The Reform Bill of 1867: Extract from PAUL, A History of Modern England, in BEARD, pp. 566-581; TERRY, pp. 1037-1042; HAZEN, pp. 461-464.
								The Enfranchisement of the Agricultural Laborer: Extract
									from MORLEY, Life of Gladstone, in BEARD, pp. 582-593; HAZEN, pp. 492-496.
								The Cabinet System: LOWELL, The Government of England, Vol. I; extract from BAGEHOT, The English Constitution, in BEARD, pp. 594-607.
								
								The Establishment of Religious Liberty in England: MAY, Constitutional History of England, chaps.
									xii-xiv ; LEE, pp. 497-518; KENDALL, Source Book of English History, pp. 382-387; HAZEN, pp. 425-428.
								Factory Legislation: CHEYNEY, Social and Industrial History of England, pp. 244-260; KENDALL, pp. 401-406.
								The Free Trade Movement: KENDALL, pp.
									406-413; HAZEN, pp. 450-455.
								The Religious Controversy and Disestablishment of the Anglican
										Church in Ireland: JOHNSTON AND SPENCER, Ireland's Story, pp. 293-301, 313-323; HAZEN, pp. 471-472.
								The Land Question in Ireland: JOHNSTON
										AND SPENCER, pp. 324-338; HAZEN, pp.
									472-477, 490-492.
								Home Rule Movement in Ireland: KENDALL,
									pp. 391-400; HAZEN, pp. 497-504.
								The Irish in America: JOHNSTON AND SPENCER, pp. 348-359.
					
				

				
					

					CHAPTER XX
						THE BRITISH EMPIRE IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY

					
						THE EXTENSION OF BRITISH DOMINION IN INDIA

						The British extend their empire while making reforms at home

						70.The story of the British struggles for colonial dominions and
							world markets-- the rivalry with the Dutch in the Spice Islands, the wars for Spanish
							trade, the struggle with France in India and North America -we have brought down to
							the settlement at Vienna, which left England foremost among the commercial and
							colonial powers of all time. The task of developing the resources acquired in India,
							Africa, Canada, and Australasia, was 6ne of the important problems which the
							eighteenth century bequeathed to the nineteenth.

						British dominion in India at the opening of the nineteenth
							century

						Turning first to India, the British rule, in the opening years of the nineteenth
							century, extended over the Bengal region and far up the Ganges valley beyond Delhi. A
							narrow strip along the eastern coast, the southern point of the peninsula, and the
							island of Ceylon had also been brought under England's control, and in the west she
							held Bombay and a considerable area north of Surat. In addition to these regions which
							the English administered directly, there were a number of princes, such as the Nizam
							of Hyderabad, over whom they exercised the right of "protection." They had secured a
							foothold which made it evident that the Mogul emperor, who retained but the shadow of
							power at Delhi, could never recover the shattered dominions of the great Aurangzeb.
							The French and Portuguese possessions had declined into mere trading posts, and in the
							heart of India only one power disputed the advance of the English toward the complete
							conquest of the peninsula.

						

						The Mahratta wars

						This one political power was a union of native princes, known as the Mahratta
							Confederacy. The country occupied by this confederation extended inward from the
							Bombay coast and was inclosed on the western border by mountain ranges. The ruling
							princes, however, who had formed the confederation, were usually warring with one
							another, except when dangers from without compelled them to unite. If it had not been
							for the jealousy amongst these princes, they might have checked the growing power of
							the English and seized India for themselves as it fell from the relaxing grasp of the
							great Mogul. But they were generally contending among themselves, and where their
							territory bordered on British dominion the people were kept in constant turmoil by
							their restless and unsettled life. At length the English determined to suppress them
							altogether and in a great war (1816-1818) they were finally conquered, a large part of
							their territories was annexed, and some of the princes were transformed into feudal
							lords under British sovereignty,-- a position which they retain to-day.

						The British advance to the borders of China

						While pacifying the interior of India the British were also occupied with the defense
							and extension of their frontiers on the north, east, and west. For six hundred miles
							along the northern frontier, where the foothills of the Himalayas gradually sink into
							the valley of the Ganges, there was chronic disorder fomented by the Gurkhas,-- a race
							composed of a mixture of the hill men and the Hindu plain dwellers. Periodically the
							Gurkha chieftains, like the Highlanders of Scotland or the Mahrattas of western India,
							would sweep down into the valley, loot the villages of the defenseless peasants, and
							then retire to their mountain retreats. A few of the most powerful of these chieftains
							succeeded in building up a sort of confederation under a rajah in whose name they
							governed Nepal, as their kingdom was called. They then sought to extend their sway at
							the expense of the British in the Ganges valley, but were badly beaten in a two years'
							war (1814-1816) and compelled to cede to the British Empire a vast northern region,
							which brought the  Anglo-Indian boundary at that point
							to the borders of Tibet, high up in the Himalaya mountains.

						Annexation in Burma, 1826-1885

						While the British were busy with the Mahrattas and Nepalese, the Burmese were
							pressing into the Bengal districts from the east, and as they had never met the
							disciplined Europeans in armed conflict, they were confident that they would be able
							to expand westward indefinitely. Their ambitions were, however, checked by the British
							(1824-1826), and they were compelled to cede to the victors a considerable strip of
							territory along the east coast of the Bay of Bengal. Having thus made their first
							definite advance beyond the confines of India proper, the British, after twenty-five
							years of peace with the Burmese, engaged in a second war against them in 1852 and made
							themselves masters of the Irawadi valley and a long narrow strip of coast below
								Rangoon.1

						Conquest of the Sindh and Punjab regions

						After the gains made at the expense of the Burmese, the northwestern frontier next
							attracted the attention of the conquering British. In the valley of the Indus, where
							the soldiers of Alexander the Great had faltered on their eastward march, there was a
							fertile region known as the Sindh, ruled over by an Ameer, who seems to have shown an
							irritating independence in his dealings with the British. On the ground that the
							Ameer's government was inefficient and corrupt, the British invaded .his territory in
							1843, and after some brilliant campaigning they wrested his domain from him and added
							it to their Indian Empire, thus winning a strong western frontier. This enterprise was
							scarcely concluded when a war broke out with the Sikhs in the northwest, which
							resulted in the addition of the great Punjab region farther up the valley of the
							Indus, northeast of Sindh, and the extension of the boundary of the Anglo-Indian
							Empire to the borders of Afghanistan.2 In addition to 1 Additional annexations were made after another Burmese war in
								1884-1885.
							2 The province of
								Baluchistan on the northwest has been brought under British dominion by gradual
								annexations beginning in 1876 and extending down to 1903. Several of the districts
								were formally organized as British Baluchistan in 1887. In attempting to extend
								their authority over the neighboring Afghanistan, the British have waged two wars
								with the ruler of that country, one in 1837-1843 and the last in 1878-1880. The
								problem how to maintain control over Afghanistan and use it as a protecting state
								against Russia's southeasterly advance now constitutes one of the fundamental issues
								of Anglo-Indian politics.
							
							
							
							
							 this policy of annexation through war with the natives,
							a process of "peaceful assimilation" was adopted under the governorship of Lord
							Dalhousie (1848-1856), who quietly transformed "protected" states into British
							provinces whenever the direct line of the ruling houses became extinct.1

						Causes of discontent in India

						It was inevitable that the conquest and annexation of so many native Indian states
							should stir up intense hatred against the British aggressors. In the provinces which
							were under the direct administration of the British, ruling families and the official
							classes attached to them had been set aside, and in those which were merely under the
							suzerainty of the conquerors as feudal states, the rulers chafed at their vassalage.
							The Mohammedans cherished a religious abhorrence for the Christian intruders in
							addition to their bitterness at the loss of their former power. The native Mahrattas
							had good reason to feel that only the advent of the British had prevented them from
							transforming the peninsula into a Mahratta empire.2

						Introduction of greased cartridges causes trouble

						There were embers of discontent everywhere, and they were fanned into a consuming
							flame in 1857 by several military reforms undertaken by the English government. The
							year before, the British had become impressed with the advantages of a new rifle
							invented by a Frenchman. It was loaded with a paper cartridge containing powder and
							ball, which was slipped into the barrel and then rammed down into place. In order to
							slide more easily into the gun the paper was greased, and the soldier had to tear off
							one end of it with his teeth so that the powder would take fire when the cap was
							exploded.

						The sepoys mutiny in 1857

						The introduction of this new rifle seemed innocent enough, but the government had not
							taken into account certain religious scruples of the sepoys, as the native troops were
							called. The 1 For
								Dalhousie's justification for annexations, see Readings, Vol. II,
								307 sqq.
							2 For a summary of Indian
								grievances, see Readings, Vol. II, 310 sqq.
							 Hindu regarded touching the fat of a cow as
							contamination worse than death, and to Mohammedans the fat of swine was almost as
							horrifying. The government soon heard of this grievance and promised not to use the
							objectionable grease. Peace was thus maintained for a time, but in May, 1857, some
							soldiers at Meerut, in the broad plain between the Jumna and the Ganges, refused to
							receive the cartridges served out to them and were thereupon sentenced to prison for
							ten years. Their native companions rallied to their support and rose in rebellion; the
							next day, May 11, the soldiers mutinied at Delhi, massacred the English inhabitants of
							the city and besieged the garrison; in a few days the entire northwest was in full
							revolt. Lucknow, with its population of seven hundred thousand natives, rose against
							the British and besieged them in their fortifications. At Cawnpore, about forty miles
							to the south, a thousand British men, women, and children were cruelly massacred after
							they had surrendered, and by the middle of July all Oudh and the northwest seemed
							lost.

						The rebellion crushed

						Immediately after the insurrection at Meerut the governor general telegraphed to
							Bombay, Madras, and Ceylon for instant help. Though there were as yet no railroads in
							the rebellious provinces, the telegraph helped to save the empire. Aid was at once
							sent to Lucknow under the command of General Colin Campbell, a hero of the Napoleonic
							and Crimean wars, and in November he succeeded in relieving the brave garrison, which
							had held out for nearly six months. Many of the sepoys remained loyal, and with aid
							from the coast provinces city after city was wrested from the mutineers until by the
							end of November British India was saved, but at a frightful cost. In the punishment of
							the rebels the frenzied English showed themselves as cruel as the natives had been in
							their treatment of English prisoners.

						Queen Victoria assumes the East India Company's political power,
							1858
						Queen Victoria proclaimed Empress of India, 1877

						After the suppression of the sepoy rebellion the Parliament of Great Britain
							revolutionized the government of India. The administration of the peninsula was
							finally taken entirely out  of the hands of the East
							India Company, which had directed it for more than two hundred and fifty years, and
							vested in the British sovereign, to be exercised under parliamentary control. In
							November, 1858, a royal proclamation1 announced to the inhabitants of British India that all treaties made under
							the authority of the East India Company would be maintained, the rights of feudatory
							princes upheld, and religious toleration granted. The governor general of the company
							in India was supplanted by a viceroy, and the company's directors in London
							surrendered their power into the hands of the Secretary of State for India. The Mogul
							of Delhi, successor of the great Aurangzeb, was expelled from his capital, but when,
							nearly twenty years later (on January 1, 1877), Queen Victoria was proclaimed Empress
							of India amid an illustrious gathering of Indian princes and British officials, the
							pomp and magnificence of the ancient Moguls were invoked to bind their former subjects
							more closely to their English conquerors. King George V, Emperor of India, now rules
							over about three hundred millions of Indian subjects inhabiting a domain embracing
							1,773,000 square miles.

						Progress in India since the mutiny
						Railroads and newspapers

						Since the great mutiny the British government in India has been concerned chiefly
							with problems of internal reform and administration and with the defense of the
							frontiers, especially in the northwest. The proportion of natives to white men in the
							army was greatly reduced and the artillery placed almost entirely in charge of the
							latter. Codes of law and of criminal procedure were introduced in 1860 and 1861. The
							construction of railway lines was pushed forward with great rapidity for military and
							economic purposes, so that the vast interior might be quickly reached by troops, and
							an outlet opened for its crops of cotton, rice, wheat, indigo, and tobacco. Cotton
							mills are rising by the tombs of ancient kings, cities are increasing rapidly in
							population, and the foreign trade by sea has multiplied twenty-fold in the past
							seventy years. About eight 1 For the proclamation, see Readings, Vol.
									II, pp. 312 sqq.
							 hundred newspapers, printed in twenty-two languages,
							including Burmese, Sanskrit, and Persian, are published; educational institutions have
							been provided for nearly five million students. In short, an industrial and
							educational revolution is taking place in India, and the Indians are beginning to be
							discontented with a government in which they have little share.
					

					
						THE DOMINION OF CANADA

						The French in Canada obtain a liberal government by the Quebec Act,
							1774

						71. When the English government was established in Canada after the
							capture of Montreal in 1760, only about two hundred of the sixty-five thousand
							inhabitants were of English origin; the rest were French. Barriers of race, language,
							laws, and religion separated the conquerors from the conquered. For a few years the
							English administration, not unnaturally, was badly adapted to the needs of its new
							subjects, but in 1774, on the eve of the war with the American colonies, the British
							Parliament, in order to insure the allegiance of the Canadians, passed the famous
							Quebec Act,-- one of the most remarkable enactments in the history of English law. In
							an age of intolerance it recognized the Catholic faith, allowed the clergy to collect
							their tithes, perpetuated the French civil law, and left French customs and traditions
							undisturbed.

						Loyalists settle in Canada during the American Revolution

						Under this act the new colony stood patriotically by England during the American
							Revolution, and though France was herself allied with the revolting colonies, the
							Canadians repulsed their advances and received fugitive loyalists in great numbers.
							The latter, known as the United Empire Loyalists, settled in what are now the Maritime
							Provinces and also in Upper Canada,-- the region lying along the Great Lakes, which
							was to become the province of Ontario. It is estimated that by 1806 about eighty
							thousand loyalist immigrants had crossed the frontier from the United States,-- the
							British government offering lands and subsidies to encourage their coming.

						Canada divided in two provinces, Ontario and Quebec

						The influx of an English population necessitated a change in the government, which
							had been designed especially for  the French.
							Consequently, in 1791, representative government was established in Canada by a new
							act of Parliament. The country was divided into two provinces,-- an upper one,
							Ontario, inhabited by the English, and a lower one, Quebec, which had long been the
							home of the French.

						French Canadians loyal to Britain in the War of 1812

						Under this new government the English and French inhabitants once more showed their
							loyalty to England when the armies of the United States prepared to invade Canada
							during the War of i812; for the old loyalists in Ontario still remembered with
							bitterness their expulsion during the American Revolution. The French Canadians
							likewise flocked to the support of the English cause, and the result of the conflict
							was merely to increase the ill will already felt for the neighboring republic, whose
							designs of annexation were regarded with distrust and aversion.

						The Canadian rebellion of 1837

						Amicably as the Canadians in the two provinces coöperated against the United States,
							they were constantly troubled by domestic dissensions. In Quebec the quarrel was
							between the great mass of the French citizens and a small group of English who
							controlled the government.1 In
							Ontario, although there was no question of nationality, there was some bitterness
							between the newcomers in the province and the officials who were nearly all from the
							old loyalist stock. In 1837 this ill feeling led to a revolt which was soon put down
							and followed by a union of the two provinces under one government. In Nova Scotia, New
							Brunswick, and Prince Edward Island there were demands for more local rights, and
							about the middle of the century they were granted self-government through responsible
							ministries.

						Canadian provinces federated in 1867

						This was an important step in the direction of the Canadian federation which was
							organized a few years later. By the British federated in North America Act of 1867
							Ontario, Quebec, New Brunswick, 1867 and Nova Scotia were united into the Dominion of
							Canada, with the provision that the remaining provinces and territories 1 See Readings, Vol. II, pp. 317 sq.
							 might be admitted later. This federation was given a
							constitution providing for a governor general representing the sovereign of England, a
							Senate, the members of which are appointed for life by the governor general, and a
							House of Commons elected by popular vote. The new plan of federation went into effect
							on July i1 1867,-- a day which is celebrated as the Canadian national holiday, like
							the Fourth of July in the United States.

						New provinces admitted to the federation

						Since the formation of the federation, the history of the dominion has been
							characterized by rapid material development and the growth of a national spirit among
							the Canadian people. The great western regions have been divided into territories and
							provinces, just as the western part of the United States has been organized into
							territories and then into states. In 1869 the extensive rights which the Hudson Bay
							Company had possessed for more than two hundred years over vast regions encircling
							Hudson Bay were purchased. The province of Manitoba was laid out in 1870; in 1871
							British Columbia, which had been occupied after the settlement of the Oregon
							controversy with the United States, was admitted to the federation; Prince Edward
							Island followed two years later; and in 1905 the great provinces of Alberta and
							Saskatchewan came into the union, leaving only Newfoundland outside. The tide of
							immigration has slowly risen, and the population, which was a little over half a
							million in 1820, was more than five millions at the close of the century.

						Growth of national spirit in Canada

						The development of Canadian industries under the encouragement of protective tariffs
							and government bounties is intimately connected with the growth of a feeling that
							Canada constitutes a nation by herself, in spite of her position as a member of the
							British Empire. The close trading relations which were once fostered between Canada
							and the United States by reciprocity treaties, guaranteeing mutual interests, were
							long hampered by the protective policy which the government at Washington followed
							after the close of the Civil  War. As a result, Canada
							was driven to look more and more to Great Britain as her industrial ally rather than
							to the neighboring republic. In the seventies Sir John MacDonald made the idea of a
							"national policy," or protection for Canadian interests, a current political issue,
							and since that time both the Conservative and Liberal parties have labored to make
							Canada an independent manufacturing nation. In the fostering of this "colonial
							nationalism," as it is aptly called, there has been found no more ardent advocate than
							the former premier, Sir Wilfrid Laurier.1 The way in which Canada rejected the plan for trade
							reciprocity with the United States in 1911 shows that there is little support for
							anything that has the faintest resemblance to annexation to the republic.
					

					
						THE AUSTRALASIAN COLONIES

						British did not have to contend with many natives in
							Australasia

						72. The Australasian colonies of Great Britain-- Australia,
							Tasmania, New Zealand, and some of the minor islands-- were practically unoccupied
							when the English colonists began to flock there in the nineteenth century. The
							aborigines of Australia and Tasmania were never very numerous or warlike. The English
							were therefore free, in these vast regions, to work out in their own way a democratic
							government suited to the conditions in which they found themselves. They have neither
							been forced into conflict with other European peoples, as in Canada, nor have they had
							to control alien races, as in India.

						The extent and natural resources of Australasia

						The continent of Australia, with the neighboring island of Tasmania, somewhat exceeds
							in extent the area of the United States, while New Zealand alone is somewhat larger
							than the island of Great Britain. Although a great part of Australia lies in the
							temperate zone, the northern region nearest the equator is parched in summer, and the
							whole central portion suffers from 1 Extracts from one of Laurier's speeches on his attitude
								toward England are given in the Readings, Vol. II, pp. 320 sqq.
							 a scarcity of water, which makes vast areas of the
							interior permanently uninhabitable unless some means of irrigation on a large scale
							can be introduced. The eastern and southern coasts have always been the chief centers
							of colonization. Melbourne, in the extreme south, lies in a latitude corresponding to
							that of Washington, St. Louis, and San Francisco in the northern hemisphere. The
							country affords gold, silver, coal, tin, copper, and iron. Tasmania and New Zealand
							are more fortunate than Australia in the diversity of their scenery and the general
							fertility of their soil, while their climate is said to possess all the advantages of
							the mother country without her fog and smoke.

						Early explorations in Australasia,-- Captain Cook's voyages

						The English occupation of Australasia belongs to the nineteenth century. The
							Portuguese, in their eager hunt for the Spice Islands, may perhaps have come upon
							Australia, but it long remained an unknown portion of the globe, as shown by the rude
							outline of Terra Australis (or Southern Land) which appears on the
							maps of the Elizabethan age. In 1642 a Dutch seaman, Tasman, discovered the island
							which now bears his name (originally called Van Dieman's Land). He also sighted in the
							same year the islands to the east, which, in spite of their almost Alpine character,
							were named New Zealand, after the low-lying meadows at the mouth of the Rhine. The
							Dutch did not, however, occupy these lands, which were later brought to the attention
							of the English by the famous voyages of Captain Cook. He skirted around the entire
							coast of New Zealand in 1769-1770, and then sailed westward to Australia, reaching
							land at a point which, owing to its luxuriant foliage, he called Botany Bay. He took
							possession of the continent in the name of the English sovereign, and it was called
							New South Wales, on account of its fancied resemblance to the Welsh shore line.

						Founding the Australian colonies

						In 1787 England began the colonization of Australia by transporting to Botany Bay a
							number of convicts. The bay formed an excellent harbor, and the town of Sydney, which
							grew up on its shores, became the chief city of New South Wales, the first of six
							sister states, which now form the Australian 
							federation. Tasmania, with the town of Hobart established in 1804, and West Australia
							also began as penal stations. Some settlements which had grown up around the town of
							Melbourne were united in 1851 to form the colony of Victoria. Shortly after, the
							region to the north of Sydney was organized into the colony of Queensland. South
							Australia, with its town of Adelaide, sprang up as an independent settlement of free
							men, never having had the misfortune of being used as a station for criminals. As
							these colonies advanced in wealth and prosperity, protest was made against the
							transportation of criminals, and the British government finally abandoned it. Civil
							government supplanted the military rule which had been exercised over the penal
							stations, and each colony at length secured self-government, that is, a parliament and
							a ministry of its own, under the general sovereignty of the British crown.

						The Australian Commonwealth formed by union of six colonies

						It was natural that in time the people of these colonies, speaking the same language
							and having the same institutions, should seek a closer union. The question of a
							federation was long discussed, and at last, in 1891, a general convention composed of
							delegates from all the states drafted a federal constitution, which was submitted to
							the people for their ratification. In 1900 the British Parliament passed an act
							constituting the Commonwealth of Australia on the basis of this draft.1 The six states-- New South
							Wales, Tasmania, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and West Australia-- are now
							formed into a union similar to that of the United States. The king is represented by a
							governor general; the federal parliament is composed of two houses, a Senate,
							consisting of six senators from each state, and a House of Representatives chosen in
							the same way as in the United States. This body has extensive power over commerce,
							railways, currency, banking, postal and telegraph service, marriage and divorce, and
							industrial arbitration.

						The settlement of New Zealand

						To the southeast of Australia, twelve hundred miles away, lie the islands of New
							Zealand, to which English pioneers began 1 Extracts from the constitution are given in the Readings, Vol. II, pp. 326 sq.
							 to go in the early part of the nineteenth century. In
							1840 the English concluded a treaty with the native Maoris, by which the latter were
							assigned a definite reservation of lands on condition that they would recognize Queen
							Victoria as their sovereign. The English settlers established the city of Auckland on
							North Island, and twenty-five years later New Zealand became a separate colony, with
							the seat of government at Wellington. Under the auspices of the New Zealand Company
							colonization was actively carried on, and before long the whites began to press in
							upon the reservations of the Maoris. This led to two revolts on the part of the
							natives (1860 and 1871), which were, however, speedily repressed and have not been
							repeated.

						Social reform in New Zealand

						New Zealand has recently become famous for its experiments in social reform.1 During the last decade of the
							nineteenth century the workingmen became very influential, and they have been able to
							carry through a number of measures which they believe to be to their advantage.
							Special courts are established to settle disputes between employers and their workmen;
							a pension law helps the poor in their old age. Various measures have been adopted for
							discouraging the creation of large estates, which are heavily taxed, while small farms
							pay but little. The right to vote is enjoyed by women as well as by men.2

						Victoria attempts to maintain standard wages for workingmen

						The colony of Victoria has vied with New Zealand in respect to social reform. The
							government has attempted to stop "sweating" in the poorly paid industries, and public
							boards composed of employers and workmen have been established for the purpose of
							fixing the minimum wages and standards of work, so that these matters are no longer
							arranged by private bargaining between individuals. The system of secret voting which
							originated in Australia-- the so-called "Australian ballot"-- is one of the reforms
							which has already spread beyond Australasia, and is in use both in England and in the
							United States.

						1 For a summary of the
							principles of reform, see Readings, Vol. II, pp. 322 sqq.

						2 In Australia women are
							also permitted to vote for members of the federal parliament and in the 19Ael
							elections of all the states.
					

					

					
						GROWTH OF THE BRITISH EMPIRE IN AFRICA

						Early conflict between the British and Dutch in South Africa

						73. The chief centers of British advance in Africa have been two,--
							the Cape of Good Hope at the extreme south and Egypt1 in the north. The Cape Colony was permanently acquired, as
							we have seen, at the Congress of Vienna in 1814, some eight years after its actual
							seizure from the Dutch during the war with Napoleon. When this colony passed into the
							hands of the British it contained slightly over twenty-five thousand people of
							European descent, mainly Dutch, and it is from this original Dutch stock that the
							majority of the present white inhabitants are derived, although immigration from
							England set in after the fall of Napoleon. These Dutch settlers were a sturdy,
							resolute people, strongly attached to their customs, including slavery, and though of
							peaceable spirit, they were unwilling to submit to interference. It was just these
							characteristics which the new rulers overlooked. Shortly after their occupation the
							British reconstructed the system of local government and the courts; they insisted on
							the use of the English language; and finally, in 1833, they abolished slavery, setting
							aside a considerable sum of money as compensation to the slave owners, a great deal of
							which, however, was secured by shrewd financiers because it was made payable in
							London.

						Many thousand Boers leave Cape Colony for the interior

						Owing to these grievances, about ten thousand of the Boers2 left the Cape during the years 1836 to 1838,
							and, pressing northeastward beyond the Orange River into the interior, partly
							inhabited by warlike savages, set up a new colony. During the succeeding years large
							numbers of the Boers pushed farther eastward and northward into the regions now known
							as Natal and the Transvaal. For a time they had their own way in these barren
							wildernesses.

						1 The circumstances which
							led England to interfere in Egyptian affairs will be considered below, pp. 498
							sqq.

						2 This is the Dutch word
							for farmer and has come to be especially applied to the Dutch population of South
							Africa.

						

						The British seize Natal (1842) and the Orange River Colony
							(1848)

						Natal, however, was on the seacoast, and the British had no desire to see a strong
							unfriendly state established there. Consequently they sent troops over to occupy
							Durban (then called Port Natal), which had formerly been the seat of some English
							settlers. These troops came into conflict with the Dutch there in 1842 and drove them
							out,-- adding more bitterness to the ill will which the Boers already felt for the
							English. The conquerors cared little, however, for Dutch opinion, and six years later
							(in 1848) they seized the Orange River Colony, which the Boers had founded between the
							Orange and Vaal rivers.

						The Transvaal Colony founded and its independence recognized by the
							British, 1852
						Independence of the Orange Free State recognized, 1854

						Once more a great Boer migration began, this time into the region beyond the Vaal
							where pioneers had already broken the way. There the Transvaal Colony was founded. The
							British believed that the vast inland wilderness was good only for cattle raising and
							rude agriculture and was therefore not worth the trouble of annexation and defense.
							Accordingly, in 1852, by a treaty known as the Sand River Convention, they recognized
							the independence of the Boers in the Transvaal region, guaranteeing them the right "to
							manage their own affairs and to govern themselves according to their own laws, without
							any interference on the part of the British government." This was followed, two years
							later, by the recognition of the freedom and independence of the Orange River Colony
							under the name of the Orange Free State, which preserved its liberty until the recent
							war, which brought it again under British sovereignty.

						The British annex the Transvaal Republic, 1877

						In the Transvaal the Dutch lived a rude wild life, having little government and
							desiring little. They were constantly embroiled with the natives, and as time went on
							the British began to complain, as they had previously of the Orange River Colony, that
							their disorders constituted a standing menace to the peace of the neighboring
							colonies. Whether or not there was any justification for this claim, Great Britain in
							1877 annexed the Transvaal Republic,1 whose independence it had recognized twenty-five years before. The
							government thus imposed upon the Boers 1 See Readings, Vol. II,
									pp. 328 sqq.
							 was extremely galling, and in 1880 they organized an
							insurrection and destroyed at Majuba Hill (1881) a small detachment of English
							troops.

						But Gladstone grans Dutch independence again

						At that time Gladstone was in office, and turning a deaf ear to the demands of the
							imperialists for vengeance, he determined to grant to the Dutch that independence for
							which they had fought. Consequently he concluded a convention with the Transvaal
							provisional government by which autonomy under the suzerainty of the queen of England
							was granted to the Boers, except that their foreign affairs were to be subject to
							British control. Regarding this measure not as an act of magnanimity on the part of
							the British government but as a concession wrung from it by force of arms, the Boers
							determined to secure complete independence, and succeeded in 1884 in obtaining a new
							convention recognizing the Transvaal as free and independent in all respects except
							the conclusion of treaties with foreign powers. They thus regained, for all practical
							purposes, the freedom which they had enjoyed before the annexation of 1877.

						The discovery of gold in the Transvaal

						The very next year (1885) gold was discovered in the southern part of the Transvaal,
							and wild lands which the negroes had despised and from which the Boers could scarcely
							wring a scanty living now became exceedingly valuable. Thousands of miners,
							prospectors, speculators, and the customary rabble of the mining camp began to flow
							into the Transvaal, and within a short time the population had trebled. The Boers were
							now outnumbered by the newcomers, the Uitlanders, or foreigners, as
							they were called. The Dutch, in order to retain their supremacy, put all sorts of
							obstacles in the way of the newcomers who wished to acquire citizenship and the right
							to vote.

						The British in the Transvaal protest against the government as
							managed by the Dutch

						It was now the turn of the Uitlanders (who were largely English) to protest.1 They declared that their energy
							and enterprise had transformed a poor and sparsely settled country into 1 For a summary of English
								grievances against the Boers, see Readings, Vol. II, p.
								332.
							 a relatively populous and prosperous one; that they had
							enriched the treasury of an almost bankrupt government; and that since they also had a
							stake in the country, they should be allowed a voice in making the laws and in the
							administration of justice. They tried to effect a change in the Transvaal
							constitution, and, failing that, they planned in 1895 an insurrection against the Boer
							authorities.

						The Jameson raid, 1895

						The conspiracy was encouraged by Cecil Rhodes, prime minister of Cape Colony and head
							of the British South Africa Company. It is alleged that he was supported in this by
							those who were then in control of the home government. Dr. Jameson, an agent of the
							company who was much interested in promoting some of Rhodes's great schemes, started
							for the interior of the Transvaal at the head of an armed band of the company's forces
							with the intention of coöperating with those who were preparing for an uprising at
							Johannesburg. The enterprise miscarried, however, and the insurgents were captured by
							the Boers.

						President Kruger refuses to conciliate the British

						This "Jameson raid," as it is called, only served further to embitter the Boers and
							afforded them a pretext for collecting large military supplies in self-defense. The
							president of the Transvaal Republic, Paul Kruger, was firmly opposed to all compromise
							with the British.1 He was
							practically master of the little oligarchy that controlled the republic; he
							persistently disregarded the petitions of the Uitlanders, and entered into an
							offensive and defensive alliance with the Orange Free State to the south.

						The Boer War results in annexation of the two Dutch republics to the
							British Empire

						The British now claimed that the Boers were aiming at the extinction of their
							dominion in South Africa; the Boers, on the other hand, asserted that the British were
							planning the over-throw of the two Dutch republics. Claims and counterclaims on both
							sides served to create a complicated situation. Negotiations failed to bring a
							settlement, and in October, 1899, the Transvaal Republic issued a declaration of war
							against England, 1 For
								Kruger's appeal to the Boers to resist the British, see Readings,
								Vol. II, pp. 333 sq.
							 following it up by an invasion of Natal and Cape
							Colony, in which the burghers of the Orange Free State joined. At first victorious,
							the Boers were finally defeated, and the two republics were annexed to the British
							Empire as the Orange River Colony and the Transvaal Colony.

						Progress in Cape Colony

						During this long struggle between Boer and Briton in the interior, the two races have
							prospered and lived happily side by side in Cape Colony and Natal. The boundaries of
							the former colony have been enlarged by many annexations until it now has an area
							about five times that of the state of New York. More than two thirds of the population
							is negro, but the European element is steadily increasing by immigration from the
							British Isles. Cabinet government was established in 1872, and the legislative power
							vested in two houses, both elected by popular vote. The principal towns are Cape Town,
							the capital, and Kimberley, the center of the great diamond fields, from which more
							than half a billion dollars' worth of diamonds have been taken.

						The Colony of Natal

						The self-governing colony of Natal originated with the expulsion of the Boers in 1842
							and the annexation of the region to Cape Colony. Some years later it was again made a
							separate colony, and in 1893 it was given a cabinet government of its own. Here, as at
							the Cape, the negro population predominates, being about five times that of the
							European and Asiatic residents combined.

						The South African Union

						Cape Colony, Natal, the Transvaal, and the Orange River Colony were consolidated into
							the South African Union in 1910, and are now administered under one governor general
							and a common parliament.

						Other British possessions in Africa

						In addition to these colonies Great Britain has three enormous provinces in southern
							Africa occupied almost entirely by negroes. North of the Cape lies the Bechuanaland
							protectorate, inhabited by peaceful native tribes. Beyond Bechuanaland and the
							Transvaal is Rhodesia, which was acquired through the British South Africa Company by
							two annexations in 1888 and 1898 and, with subsequent additions, brought under the
							protection of the British government. A railway from Cape Town  has been completed through Bulawayo and across the Victoria Falls to the
							northern boundary of Rhodesia. This region brings the British inland possessions to
							the junction of German East Africa and the Congo Free State, which now block further
							annexations to the northward that might otherwise have connected South Africa with the
							Nile valley.1

						
							TABLE OF BRITISH POSSESSIONS

							IN EUROPE: The United Kingdom, Gibraltar,
								and Malta.

							IN ASIA: Aden, Perim, Sokotra, Kuria Muria
								Islands, Bahrein Islands, British Borneo, Ceylon, Cyprus, Hongkong, India and
								dependencies, Labuan, the Straits Settlements, the Federated Malay States,
								Weihaiwei.

							IN AFRICA: Ascension Island, Basutoland,
								Bechuanaland Protectorate, British East Africa, Cape of Good Hope, Nyasaland
								Protectorate, Zanzibar, Mauritius, Natal, Orange River Colony, Rhodesia, St. Helena,
								Tristan da Cunha, Seychelles, Somaliland, Transvaal Colony, Swaziland, West African
								Colonies of Nigeria, Northern Nigeria, Southern Nigeria, the Gold Coast, Gambia,
								Sierra Leone.

							IN NORTH AND SOUTH AMERICA: Bermudas, Canada, Falkland Islands, British Guiana, British
								Honduras, Newfoundland and Labrador, the West Indies including Bahama, Barbados,
								Jamaica, Leeward Islands, Trinidad, and Windward Islands.

							IN AUSTRALASIA AND THE PACIFIC ISLANDS: The Commonwealth of Australia (including
								New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, West Australia, and
								Tasmania), New Zealand, New Guinea (British), Fiji Islands, Tonga or Friendly
								Islands, and other minor islands in the Pacific.

							Total area, 11,447,954 square miles. Population, 419,401,371.
						

						1 In addition to its
							colonies in southern and central Africa and its control in Egypt (see below, pp.
								498
							sqq.), Great Britain owns British East Africa. The special
							importance of British East Africa lies in the fact that it enables Great Britain to
							control the head waters of the Nile and affords a protection for the Sudan and Egypt
							to the north. British Somaliland was secured on the Straits of Bab-el-Mandeb in 1884
							in connection with the establishment of the English power in Egypt. Along the west
							coast Great Britain has five centers, Gambia, Sierra Leone, the Gold Coast, Lagos, and
							Nigeria,-- the beginnings of which date back to the days of Drake and Hawkins, when
							the British were ravaging the coast for slaves to carry to the New World.

						

						
							ZAMBESI BRIDGE ON THE CAPE-TO-CAIRO RAILWAY
						
					

					
					

					
						REFERENCES
								The Great Indian Mutiny: Extract from HUNTER, A Brief History of the Indian Peoples, in BEARD, Introduction to the English Historians,
									pp. 638-644; LEE, Source Book of English
										History, pp. 562-568.
								British Advance in India: WOODWARD, The Expansion of the British Empire, pp. 312-330; LYALL, Rise of British Dominion in India, pp.
									210-281.
								Australia and New Zealand: WOODWARD, pp.
									262-274; LEE, pp. 542-550; HAZEN, Europe since 1815, pp. 530-536.
								The British in South Africa: WOODWARD,
									pp. 280-295; LEE, pp. 569-585; HAZEN, pp.
									536-545.
								Canada under British Rule: WOODWARD, pp.
									249-261 ; HAZEN, pp. 523-530.
								Constitution of the Australian Commonwealth: BEARD, pp. 645-662.
					
				

				
					

					CHAPTER XXI
						THE RUSSIAN EMPIRE IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY

					
						THE REIGNS OF ALEXANDER I (1801-1825) AND NICHOLAS
							I (1825-1855)

						Relations between Russia and western Europe becoming more
							intimate

						74. During the past century Russia has been coming into ever closer
							relations with western Europe. Although still a backward country in many respects, she
							has been busily engaged for fifty years in modernizing herself ; and shortly after the
							opening of the twentieth century it looked as if a popular government would be
							established by violence. The works of some of her writers are widely read in foreign
							lands, especially those of Turgenief and of Leo Tolstoi. The music of Rubinstein and
							Tschaikovski is as highly esteemed in London or New York as in St. Petersburg or
							Moscow. Even in the field of science such names as that of Mendeléef, the chemist, and
							of Metchnikof, the biologist, are well known to their fellow-workers in Germany,
							France, England, and America. It becomes, therefore, a matter of vital interest to
							follow the changes which are turning the tide of modern civilization into eastern
							Europe.

						Participation of Alexander I in European affairs

						When, in 1815, Tsar Alexander I returned to St. Petersburg after the close of the
							Congress of Vienna, he could view his position and recent achievements with pride.
							Alexander had participated in Napoleon's overthrow, and had succeeded in uniting the
							rulers of western Europe in that Holy Alliance which he had so much at heart. But his
							chief interests lay, of course, in his own vast empire. He was the undisputed and
							autocratic ruler of more than half of the whole continent of Europe, not to speak of
							the almost interminable reaches of northern Asia which lay beneath his scepter.

						

						Heterogeneous character of the Russian Empire

						Under his dominion there were many races and peoples, differing in customs, language,
							and religion,-- Finns, Germans, Poles, Jews, Tartars, Armenians, Georgians, and
								Mongols.1 The Russians
							themselves, it is true, had colonized the southern plains of European Russia and had
							spread even into Siberia. They made up a large proportion of the population of the
							empire, and their language was everywhere taught in the schools and used by the
							officials. The people of the grand duchy of Finland, speaking Swedish and Finnish, did
							not like their incorporation with Russia; and the Poles, recalling the time when their
							kingdom far outshone the petty duchy of Moscow among the European powers, still hoped
							that the kingdom of Poland might form an independent nation with its own language and
							constitution.


						In the time of Alexander I the Russians had not begun to flock to the cities, which
							were small and ill constructed compared with those of western Europe. The great mass
							of the population still lived in the country and more than half of them were serfs, as
							ignorant and wretched as those of France or England in the twelfth century.

						Absolute powers of the Tsar

						Alexander I had inherited, as "Autocrat of all the Russias," a despotic power over
							his subjects as absolute as that to which Louis XIV laid claim. He could make war and
							conclude peace at will, freely appoint or dismiss his ministers, order the arrest,
							imprisonment, exile, or execution of any one he chose, without consulting or giving an
							account to any living being. Even the Russian national Church was under his personal
							control. There was no thought of any responsibility to the people, and the tyranny
							which the Tsar's officials have been able to exercise will become apparent as we
							proceed.

						How Tsar Alexander became the enemy of revolution and of liberal
							ideas

						During his early years Alexander entertained liberal ideas, but after his return from
							the Congress of Vienna he began to 1 The Cossacks, or light cavalry, who constitute so conspicuous
								a feature of the Russian army, were originally lawless rovers on the southern and
								eastern frontiers, composed mainly of adventurous Russians with some admixture of
								other peoples. Certain districts are assigned to them by the government on the lower
								Don, near the Black Sea, the Urals, and elsewhere, in return for military
								service.
							 dismiss his liberal advisers.1 He became as apprehensive of revolution as
							his friend Metternich, and threw himself into the arms of the " Old-Russian" party,
							which obstinately opposed the introduction of all western ideas. The Tsar was soon
							denouncing liberalism as a frightful illusion which threatened the whole social order.
							He permitted his officials to do all they could to stamp out the ideas which he had
							himself formerly done so much to encourage. The censorship of the press put an end to
							the liberal periodicals which had sprung up, and professors in the universities were
							dismissed for teaching modern science. The attraction of the new ideas was, however,
							too strong for the Tsar to prevent some of his more enlightened subjects from
							following eagerly the course of the revolutionary movements in western Europe and
							reading the new books dealing with scientific discoveries and questions of political
							and social reform.

						The "Decembrist" revolt of 1825

						Alexander I died suddenly on December 1, 1825. The revolutionary societies seized
							this opportunity to organize a revolt known as the "December conspiracy." But the
							movement was badly organized; a few charges of grapeshot brought the insurgents to
							terms; and some of the leaders were hanged.

						Polish rebellion, 1830-1831

						Nicholas I never forgot the rebellion which inaugurated his reign, and he proved one
							of the most despotic of all the long list of autocratic rulers. His arbitrary measures
							speedily produced a revolt in Poland. The constitution which Alexander I had in his
							liberal days granted to the kingdom was violated. Russian troops were stationed there
							in great numbers, Russian officials forced their way into the government offices, and
							the petitions of the Polish diet were contemptuously ignored by the Tsar. Secret
							societies then began to promote a movement for the reestablishment of the ancient
							Polish republic which Catharine II and her fellow-monarchs had destroyed. Late in 1830
							an uprising occurred in Warsaw; the insurgents secured control 1 For a contemporary account of
								Alexander's liberal ideas, see Readings, Vol. II, pp. 338 sqq.
							 of the city, drove out the Russian officials, organized
							a provisional government, and appealed to the European powers for aid. Finding the
							Tsar inflexible in his refusal to grant them any concessions, the leaders of the
							insurrection proclaimed the independence of Poland, January 25, 1831.

						Nicholas crushes the revolt and deprives Poland and its
							constitution

						Europe, however, made no response to Poland's appeal for assistance. The Tsar's
							armies were soon able to crush the rebellion, and when Poland lay prostrate at his
							feet, Nicholas gave no quarter. He revoked the constitution,1 abolished the diet, suppressed the national
							flag, and transferred forty-five thousand Polish families to the valley of the Don and
							the mountains of the Caucasus. To all intents and purposes Poland became henceforth
							merely a Russian province, governed, like the rest of the empire, from St.
								Petersburg.2

						Nicholas I's belief that autocracy alone could save Russia

						Nicholas I sincerely believed that Russia could only be saved from the "decay" of
							religion and government which he believed to be taking place in western Europe by
							maintaining autocracy, for this alone was strong enough to make head against the
							destructive ideas which some of his subjects in their blindness mistook for
							enlightenment. The Russian-Greek Church3 and all its beliefs must be defended, and the Russian
							nation preserved as a separate and superior people who should maintain forever the
								1 His proclamation is
								printed in the Readings, Vol. II, pp. 343 sq.
							2 Thirty years later, in
								1863, the Poles made another desperate attempt to free themselves from the yoke of
								Russia, but without success. Napoleon III refused to assist them, and Bismarck did
								not hesitate to use his influence in the interest of the Tsar.
							3 The Russians were
								converted to Christianity by missionaries from Constantinople, the religious capital
								of the Eastern, or Greek, Church, which had gradually drifted away from the Latin,
								or Roman Catholic, Church in the seventh and eighth centuries. For many centuries
								the Russian Church remained in close relations with the patriarch of Constantinople,
								but after that city fell into the hands of the infidel Turks it occurred to the
								Russian rulers that the Tsars must be the divinely appointed successors of the
								Eastern emperors. Old Rome, on the Tiber, and new Rome, on the Bosporus, had both
								fallen on account of their sins. Russia thus became the "third Rome," and the Tsar,
								the head of all true Christians who accepted the only orthodox faith, that of the
								Greek Church. Under Peter the Great the Russian Church was brought completely under
								the control of the government.
							 noble beliefs and institutions of the past.1 Certainly a great many of his
							advisers were well content with the system, and his army of officials were as loath to
							recommend reform as any band of corrupt politicians in the world.

						Stern efforts of Nicholas to check liberalism

						Accordingly, in the name of Russian nationality, the Tsar adopted strong measures to
							check the growth of liberalism. The officials bestirred themselves to prevent in every
							way the ingress into Russia of western ideas. Books on religion and science were
							carefully examined by the police or the clergy; foreign works containing references to
							politics were either confiscated or the objectionable pages were blotted out by the
							censors. The government officials did not hesitate freely to open private letters
							committed to the post, even when there was no reason to suspect their writers. It may
							be said that, except for a few short intervals of freedom, this whole system has been
							continued down to the present time.
					

					
						THE FREEING OF THE SERFS AND THE GROWTH OF THE SPIRIT OF REVOLUTION

						Accession of Alexander II, 1855

						75. In 1854 the efforts of Russia to increase her influence in
							Turkey led to a war with France and England. The Russians were defeated, and their
							strong fortress of Sebastopol, in the Crimea, captured by the allies. Nicholas I died
							in the midst of the reverses of the Crimean War, leaving to his son, Alexander II, the
							responsibility of coming to terms with the enemy, and then, if possible, strengthening
							Russia by reducing the flagrant political corruption and bribery which had been
							revealed by the war, and by improving the lot of the people at large.

						Situation of the Russian serfs

						Nearly one half of the Tsar's subjects were serfs whose bondage and wretched lives
							seemed to present an insurmountable barrier to general progress and prosperity. The
							landlord 1 Nicholas
								introduced into the schools a catechism which recalls that of Napoleon I: "Question. What does religion teach us as to our duties to the Tsar?
									Answer. Worship, fidelity, the payment of taxes, service, love,
								and prayer,-- the whole being comprised in the words worship and fidelity."
							 commonly reserved a portion of his estate for himself
							and turned over to his serfs barely enough to enable them to keep body and soul
							together. They usually spent three days in the week cultivating their lord's fields.
							He was their judge as well as their master and could flog them at will. The serf was
							viewed as scarcely more than a beast of burden.1

						Peasant revolts

						From time to time the serfs, infuriated by the hard conditions imposed upon them,
							revolted against their lords. During the reign of Catharine the Great a general
							uprising had taken place which grew to the proportions of a civil war and was only put
							down with terrible bloodshed and cruelty. Under Nicholas I over five hundred riots had
							occurred, and these seemed to increase rather than decrease, notwithstanding the
							vigilance of the police and the severity of the government.

						Emancipation of the serfs, March, 1861
						The village community or Mir

						Alexander II, fearful lest the peasants should again attempt to win their liberty by
							force, decided that the government serfs, must undertake the difficult task of freeing
							forty millions of his subjects from serfdom. After much discussion he issued an
							emancipation proclamation, March 3, 1861,2 on the eve of the great Civil War which was to put an end
							to negro slavery in the United States. In his anxiety to prevent any loss to the
							landowners, who constituted the ruling class in the Russian government, the Tsar did
							his work in a very half-hearted manner. It is true the government deprived the former
							lord of his right to force the peasants to work for him and pay him the old dues; he
							could no longer flog them or command them to marry against their will; but the
							peasants still remained bound to the land, for they were not permitted to leave' their
							villages without a government pass. The landlords surrendered a portion of their
							estates to the peasants, but this did not become the property of individual owners,
							but was vested in the village 1 For an account of Russian serfdom, see Readings, Vol. II, pp. 345 sqq.
								2 See Readings, Vol. II, pp. 348 sqq. According to the Russian
									calendar the date is February 19, for Russia has never followed the example of the
									western nations and rectified her mode of indicating dates by adopting the
									Gregorian calendar.
								 community as a whole. The land assigned to each
							village was to be periodically redistributed among the various families of the
							community so that, aside from his hut and garden, no peasant could lay claim
							permanently to any particular plot of land as his own.1

						The government dealt very generously with the landlords, as might have been
							anticipated. It not only agreed that the peasants should be required to pay for such
							land as their former masters turned over to them, but commonly fixed the price at an
							amount far greater than the real value of the land-- a price which the government paid
							and began to collect from the serfs in installments. His new freedom seemed to the
							peasant little better than that enjoyed by a convict condemned to hard labor in the
							penitentiary. Indeed, he sometimes refused to be "freed" when he learned of the hard
							bargain which the government proposed to drive with him. There were hundreds of riots
							while the readjustments were taking place, which were sternly suppressed by the
							government. The peasants were compelled by force of arms to accept their "liberty" and
							pay the land tax which emancipation imposed upon them.

						Naturally, if the people in a given community increased, the size of the individual
							allotments inevitably decreased and with that the chances of earning a livelihood. At
							present, more than fifty years after the "freeing" of the serfs, the peasant has, on
							the average, scarcely half as much land as that originally assigned to him. Although
							he lived constantly on the verge of starvation, he fell far behind in the payment of
							his taxes, so that in 1904 the Tsar, in a moment of forced generosity, canceled the
							arrears, which the peasants could, in any case, never have paid.

						1 These village communities
							had long existed in Russia, since the lords had usually found it convenient to have
							the village redistribute the land from time to time among the serfs as the number of
							inhabitants changed. By a new law of June 27, 1910-- the most important agrarian law
							since the emancipation of the serfs-- provision was made for a dissolution of the
							village communities and private ownership of definite plots of land by the
							peasants.

						
						
						
						

						

						Original meaning of nihilism

						Alexander II's despotic regime developed among the more cultivated classes a spirit
							of opposition, known as nihilism.1 This was not in its origin a frantic terrorism, as
							commonly supposed, but an intellectual and moral revolt against tyranny in the State,
							bigotry in the Church, and all unreasonable traditions and unfounded prejudices.
							Absolute sincerity, Kropotkin assures us, was the basis of nihilism. "In the name of
							that sincerity the nihilist gave up, and asked others to give up, those superstitions,
							prejudices, habits, and customs which his own reason could not justify. He refused to
							bend before any authority except that of reason." In short, the nihilist would have
							agreed with Voltaire, Diderot, and the Encyclopaedists in exalting reason as man's
							sole guide in this mysterious world.

						Origin of terrorism

						The government officials regarded the reformers with the utmost suspicion and began
							to arrest the more active among them. The prisons were soon crowded and hundreds were
							banished to Siberia. The Tsar and his police seemed to be the avowed enemies of all
							progress, and any one who advanced a new idea was punished as if he had committed a
							murder. The peaceful preparation of the people for representative government could not
							go on so long as the police were arresting men for forming debating clubs. It seemed
							to the more ardent reformers that there was no course open to them but to declare war
							on the government as a body of cruel, corrupt tyrants who would keep Russia in
							darkness forever merely in order that they might continue to fill their own pockets by
							grinding down the people. They argued that the wicked acts of the officials must be
							exposed, the government intimidated, and the eyes of the world opened to the horrors
							of the situation by conspicuous acts of violent retribution. So some of the reformers
							became terrorists, not because they were depraved men or loved
							bloodshed, but because they were convinced that there was no other 1 The term "nihilist" was first
								introduced in Russia by Turgenief in his novel, Fathers and
									Children. It was applied to the chief character on account of his denial of
								the authority of all tradition. See Readings, Vol. II, p.
								353.
							 way to save their beloved land from the fearful
							oppression under which it groaned.

						Terrorism, 1878-1881

						The government fought terrorism with terrorism. In 1879 sixteen suspected
							revolutionists were hanged and scores sent to the dungeons of St. Petersburg or the
							mines of Siberia.1 The
							terrorists, on their part, retaliated by attacks on the Tsar and his government. A
							student tried to kill the Tsar as the head and representative of the whole tyrannical
							system. Attempts were made to blow up a special train on which the Tsar was traveling,
							and, in another effort to kill him, the Winter Palace in St. Petersburg was wrecked by
							a revolutionist disguised as a carpenter.

						Alexander II consents to permit the representatives of the people to give
							their opinion on proposed laws
						Assassination of Alexander II, 1881

						In short, the efforts of the Tsar's officials to check the revolutionists proved
							vain, and Melikoff, to whom the Tsar had given almost dictatorial powers to suppress
							the agitation, finally saw that the government must make some concessions in order to
							pacify its enemies; so he advised Alexander II to grant a species of constitution in
							which he should agree to convoke an assembly elected by the people, and thereafter ask
							its opinion and counsel before making new and important laws. The Tsar finally
							consented to make the experiment, but it was too late. On the afternoon that he gave
							his assent to the plan he. was assassinated as he was driving to his palace (March,
								1881).2

						Terrorism rapidly declines after the death of Alexander II

						While the body of the murdered Tsar was still lying in state, the executive committee
							of the revolutionists issued a warning to his son and successor, Alexander III,
							threatening him with the evils to come if he did not yield to their demand for
							representative government, freedom of speech and of the press, and the right to meet
							together for the discussion of political questions.3 The new Tsar was not, however, moved by the appeal, and
							the police redoubled their activity. The plans of Melikoff were repudiated, and the
							autocracy settled back into its usual 1 For a description of the horrors of Siberian exile life, see
									Readings, Vol. II, pp. 354 sqq.
							2 See Readings, Vol. II, pp. 362 sq.
							3 See Readings, Vol. II, pp. 364 sq.
							 despotic habits. The terrorists realized that, for the
							time being, they had nothing to gain by further acts of violence, which would only
							serve to strengthen the government they were fighting. It was clear that the people at
							large were not yet ready for a revolution.

						Belief of the reactionaries that Russia must be kept "frozen"

						The reign of Alexander III (1881-1894) was a period of quiet, during which little
							progress seemed to be made. The people suffered the oppression of the government
							officials without active opposition. Their occasional protests were answered by
							imprisonment, flogging, or exile, for Alexander III and his intimate advisers believed
							quite as firmly and religiously in autocracy as Nicholas I had done. Freedom and
							liberalism, they agreed, could only serve to destroy a nation.
					

					
						THE INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION IN RUSSIA

						The industrial revolution overtakes Russia

						76. It became increasingly difficult, however, to keep Russia
							"frozen," for during the last quarter of the nineteenth century the spread of
							democratic ideas had been hastened by the coming of the steam engine, the factory, and
							the locomotive, all of which served to unsettle the humdrum agricultural life which
							the great majority of the people had led for centuries. In spite of her mineral
							resources Russia had lagged far behind her western neighbors in the use of machinery.
							She had little capital and no adequate means of transportation across the vast
							stretches of country that separated her chief towns, and the governing classes had no
							taste for manufacturing enterprises.1

						Rapid growth of Russian industries, 1887-1897

						The liberation of the serfs, with all its drawbacks, favored the growth of factories,
							for the peasants were sometimes permitted to leave their villages for the
							manufacturing centers which were gradually growing up. The value of the products of
							the chief industries doubled between 1887 and 1897; and the number of people employed
							in them increased from 1,318,048 1 See Readings, Vol. II,
									pp. 368 sqq.
							 to 2,098,262. If Napoleon could come once more to
							Moscow, he would not recognize the city which met his gaze in 1812. It has now become
							the center of the Russian textile industries, and the sound of a thousand looms and
							forges announces the creation of a new industrial world. There are in Russia to-day
							twenty-five cities with a population of one hundred thousand or more, and two of
							them,-- St. Petersburg and Moscow,-- have over a million each.

						Railway construction in Russia

						Along with this industrial development has gone the construction of great railway
							lines built largely by the government with money borrowed from capitalists in western
							Europe. Some of the railroads have been constructed chiefly for political and military
							purposes, but others are designed to connect the great industrial centers. Railway
							building was first seriously undertaken in Russia after the disasters of the Crimean
							War, when the soldiers suffered cruel hardships in consequence of the difficulty of
							obtaining supplies. By 1878 upward of eight thousand miles had been built, connecting
							the capital with the frontiers of European Russia. In 1885 the railway advance toward
							the frontiers of India1 was
							begun, and within a short time Afghanistan was reached and communication opened to the
							borders of China. Important lines have also been built in the region between the Black
							Sea and the Caspian.

						1 The expansion of Russia
							to the southeast has been very rapid. In 1846 the southern boundary ran along the
							lower edge of the Aral Sea. In 1863 Russia, claiming that the Turkestan tribesmen
							pillaged caravans and harried her frontiers, sent forces which captured the cities of
							Turkestan, Chemkent, and Tashkent, and two years later organized the region into the
							new province of Russian Turkestan. Shortly afterward the Ameer of Bokhara declared war
							on the Tsar only to have the Russians occupy the ancient city of Samarkand (where
							Alexander the Great had halted on his eastward march) and later establish a
							protectorate over Bokhara which brought them to the borders of Afghanistan. In 1872
							the Khan of Khiva was reduced to vassalage. During the following years (1873-1886) the
							regions to the south, about Merv, down to the borders of Persia and Afghanistan, were
							gradually annexed. In 1876 the province of Kokand on the boundary of the Chinese
							Empire was seized and transformed into the province of Ferghana. By securing railway
							concessions and making loans to the Shah, the Russians have become powerful in Persia,
							and thus all along their southeastern frontiers they are struggling for predominance
							against British influence.

						

						The Trans-Siberian railroad

						The greatest of all railway undertakings was the Trans-Siberian road, which was
							rendered necessary for the transportation of soldiers and military supplies to the
							eastern boundary of the empire. Communication was established between St. Petersburg
							and the Pacific in 1900, and a branch line southward to Port Arthur was soon
								finished.1 One can now travel
							in comfort, with few changes of cars, from Havre to Vladivostok, via Paris, Cologne,
							Berlin, Warsaw, Moscow, Irkutsk on Lake Baikal, and Harbin, a distance of
							seventy-three hundred miles.
					

					
						THE STRUGGLE FOR LIBERTY UNDER NICHOLAS II

						Nicholas II speedily dispels the hopes of the liberals

						77. When Nicholas II succeeded his father, Alexander III, in
								1894,2 he was but twenty-six
							years old and there was some reason to hope that he would face the problems of this
							new industrial Russia in a progressive spirit. He had had an opportunity in his
							travels to become somewhat familiar with the enlightened governments of western
							Europe, and one of his first acts was to order the imprisonment of the prefect of
							police of St. Petersburg for annoying the correspondents of foreign 1 See map below, p. 477.
							2
								It may not be superfluous to bring together at this point the names of the
									Russian rulers in recent times, since their autocratic position has enabled them
									to play a far more important role in public affairs than western monarchs.
								
									Catharine II (the Great)(1762-1796)
									
									Paul I (1796-1801)
									
									Alexander I (1801-1825)Nicholas I (1825-1855)

									
									Alexander II(1855-1881)
									
									Alexander III (1881-1894)
									
									Nicholas II (1894- )
								
							
							 newspapers. Nicholas, however, quickly dispelled any
							illusions which his more liberal subjects entertained. "Let it be understood by all,"
							he declared, "that I shall employ all my powers in the best interests of the people,
							but the principle of autocracy will be sustained by me as firmly and unswervingly as
							it was by my never-to-be-forgotten father."

						Censorship of the press

						The censorship of the press was made stricter than ever, one decree alone adding two
							hundred books, including the works of Herbert Spencer, to the already long list of
							those which the government condemned.1 The distinguished historian, Professor Milyoukov, was dismissed from the
							University of Moscow on the ground of his "generally noxious tendencies," and other
							teachers were warned not to talk about government.2

						Attempt to Russify Finland given up

						Nowhere did the Tsar show his desire for absolute control more clearly than in his
							dealings with Finland. When Alexander I had annexed that country in 1809 he had
							permitted it to retain its own diet and pass its own laws, although it of course
							recognized the Tsar as its ruler under the title of Grand Duke. The Finns cherished
							their independence and have in recent times shown themselves one of the most
							progressive peoples of Europe. In 1899, however, Nicholas began a harsh and determined
								Russiftcation of Finland. He sent heartless officials, like von
							Plehve, to represent him and crush out all opposition to his changes. He placed the
							Finnish army under the Russian minister of war, deprived the diet of the right to
							control the lawmaking, except in some minor and purely local matters, and undertook to
							substitute the Russian language so far as possible for the Finnish.

						Finally, on June 17, 1904, the Russian governor of Finland. was assassinated by the
							son of one of the senators, who then 1 Among the books which the government prohibits in public
								libraries are the Russian translation of Mill's Political Economy,
								Green's History of the English People, Bryce's American Commonwealth, and Fyffe's Modern Europe.
							2 One may judge of the
								sober, high-minded scholars upon whom the Russian autocracy believes it essential to
								make war by reading Professor Milyoukov's Russia and its Crisis,
								which is based on a series of lectures which he delivered in the United States
								during the year 1903-1904.
							 killed himself, leaving a letter in which he explained
							that he had acted alone and with the simple purpose of forcing on the Tsar's attention
							the atrocities of his officials. The new governor permitted the newspapers to be
							started once more and forbade the Russian officials to interfere in the elections. A
							year later the Tsar, under the influence of revolution at home and disaster abroad,
							consented to restore to Finland all her former rights.

						Harsh policy of von Plehve

						We must now trace the history of the terrible struggle between the Russian people and
							their despotic government, which began openly in 1904. In 1902 an unpopular minister
							of the interior had been assassinated and the Tsar had appointed a still more
							unpopular man in his place, namely, von Plehve, who was notorious for his success in
							hunting down those who criticised the government and for the vigor with which he had
							carried on the Russification of Finland. He at once declared that the existing
							discontent was due entirely to a handful of evil-minded agitators whom the police
							would soon catch.

						Massacres of the Jews

						Von Plehve connived at the persecution of those among the Tsar's subjects who
							ventured to disagree with the doctrines of the Russian official Church to which every
							Russian was supposed to belong. The Jews suffered especially. There were massacres at
								Kishineff1 and elsewhere in
							1903 which horrified the western world and drove hundreds of thousands of Jews to
							foreign lands, especially to the United States. There is good reason to believe that
							von Plehve actually arranged these massacres.

						The liberals, or constitutional democrats

						Von Plehve was mistaken, however, in his belief that all the trouble came from a
							handful of deluded fanatics. Among those who detested the cruel and corrupt government
							which he represented were the professional men, the university professors, the
							enlightened merchants and manufacturers, and the public-spirited nobility. These were
							not at first organized into a distinct party, but in time they came to be known as the
							constitutional democrats. They hoped that a parliament elected by the people 1 See Readings, Vol. II, pp. 371 sq.
							 might be established to coöperate with the Tsar and his
							ministers in making the laws and imposing the taxes. They demanded freedom of speech
							and of the press, the right to hold public meetings to discuss public questions, the
							abolition of the secret police system, of arbitrary imprisonment and religious
							persecutions, and the gradual improvement of the condition of the peasants and
							workingmen through the passage of wise laws.

						The social democrats

						In the towns a socialistic party had been growing up which advocated the theories of
							Karl Marx.1 It desired, and
							still desires, all the reforms advocated by the constitutional democrats just
							described, but looks forward to the time when the workingmen will become so numerous
							and powerful that they can seize the government offices and assume the management of
							lands, mines, and industries, which shall thereafter be used for the benefit of all
							rather than for the small class of rich men who now own them. Unlike the reformers
							next to be described, they do not believe in terrorism or in murderous attacks upon
							unpopular government officials.

						The socialist revolutionary party

						The most conspicuous among the Russian agitators were those who belonged to the
							socialist revolutionary party, which was well organized and was responsible for the
							chief acts of violence during the years of the revolution. They maintained that it was
							right to make war upon the government which was oppressing them and extorting money
							from the people to fill the pockets of dishonest officeholders. Its members selected
							their victims from the most notoriously cruel among the officials, and after a victim
							had been killed they usually published a list of the offenses which cost him his life.
							Lists of those condemned to death were also prepared, after careful consideration, by
							their executive committee. They did not practice, or in any way approve of,
							indiscriminate assassination, as is sometimes supposed.

						Great unpopularity of the war with Japan which began in February,
							1904

						The more von Plehve sought to stamp out all protest against the autocracy, the more
							its enemies increased, and at last, in 1 See above, pp. 277
									sqq.
							 1904, the open revolution may be said to have begun. On
							February 5 of that year a war commenced with Japan, which was due to Russia's
							encroachments in Korea and her evident intention of permanently depriving China of
							Manchuria. The liberals attributed the conflict to bad management on the part of the
							Tsar's officials, and declared it to be inhuman and contrary to the interests of the
							people. In March revolutionary manifestoes appeared, maintaining that the Japanese
							were quite justified in their claims and urging that no intelligent Russian should
							help on the war in any way, either by contributions or enlistment.

						Russian reverses

						Meanwhile the Japanese were pressing back the Russians, destroying their vessels, and
							besieging their fortress of Port Arthur, which they had cut off from any aid or
							supplies. The liberal-minded among the Russians regarded these disasters with a
							certain satisfaction. The reverses, they held, were due to the incompetence and
							corruption of the Tsar's officials, and served to make plain how very badly autocracy
							really worked in practice.

						Assassination of von Plehve, July, 1904

						Von Plehve continued, however, in spite of the rising indignation, to encourage the
							police to break up scientific and literary meetings, in which disapprobation of the
							government was pretty sure to be expressed, and to send men eminent in science and
							literature to prison or to Siberia, until, on July 28, 1904, a bomb was thrown under
							the minister's carriage by a former student in the University of Moscow and his career
							was brought to an abrupt close.

						General disorder

						Meanwhile disasters and revolt met the government on every hand. The Japanese
							continued to force back the Russians in Manchuria in a series of terrific conflicts
							south of Mukden. In one long battle on the Sha-ho River sixty thousand Russians
							perished. Their fleets in the East were annihilated, and on January 1, 1905, Port
							Arthur fell, after the most terrible siege on record. The crops failed and the
							starving peasants burned and sacked the houses and barns of the nobles, arguing that
							if  the buildings were destroyed, the owners could not
							come back, and the Tsar's police could no longer make them their head-quarters.

						The war had produced a stagnation of commerce and industry, and strikes became
							common. It became known that the government officials had been stealing money that
							should have gone to strengthen and equip the armies; rifles had been paid for that had
							never been delivered, supplies bought which never reached the suffering soldiers,
							and-- most scandalous of all-- high Russian dignitaries had even misappropriated the
							funds of the Red Cross Society for aiding the wounded.

						The Tsar promises reforms, December, 1904

						On December 26, 1904, the Tsar issued an imperial ukase vaguely
							promising reforms, which he declared were under consideration and would be put into
							effect as soon as possible. But the proclamation failed to stop agitation.

						"Red Sunday," January 22, 1905

						On Sunday, January 22, a fearful event occurred. The workingmen of St. Petersburg had
							sent a petition to the Tsar and had informed him that on Sunday they would march to
							the palace humbly to pray him in person to consider their sufferings, since they had
							no faith in his officials or ministers. When Sunday morning came, masses of men,
							women, and children, wholly unarmed, attempted to approach the Winter Palace in the
							pathetic hope that the "Little Father," as they called the Tsar, would listen to their
							woes. Instead, the Cossacks tried to disperse them with their whips, and then the
							troops which guarded the palace shot and cut down hundreds, and wounded thousands in a
							conflict which continued all day.1 "Red Sunday" was, however, only the most impressive of many similar
							encounters between citizens and the Tsar's police and guards.

						Protest of the men of letters

						The day after "Red Sunday" all the leading lawyers and men of letters in St.
							Petersburg joined in the following declaration: "The public should understand that the
							government has declared war on the entire Russian people. There is no further doubt on
							this point. A government which is unable to 1 For a contemporary newspaper account, see Readings, Vol. II, pp. 373 sqq.
							 hold intercourse with the people except with the
							assistance of sabers and rifles is self-condemned. We summon all the vital energies of
							Russian society to the assistance of the workingmen who began the struggle for the
							common cause of the whole people. Let shame overwhelm the names of those who, in these
							days of great and fateful struggle, oppose the people and join the ranks of their
							hangmen."

						The Tsar promises to summon the Duma (August 19, 1905

						Finally, the Tsar so far yielded to the pressure of public opinion that on August 19
							he promised to summon a Duma, or council, which should meet not
							later than January, 1906.1 It
							was to represent all Russia, but to have no further power than that of giving to the
							still autocratic ruler advice in making the laws.

						The great general strikes October and November, 1905

						This was a bitter disappointment to even the most moderate liberals. It was pointed
							out that both the workingmen and the professional men were excluded by the regulations
							from voting. A more effective measure in bringing the Tsar and his advisers to terms
							was a great general strike in the interest of reform which began late in October. All
							the railroads stopped running; in all the great towns the shops, except those that
							dealt in provisions, were closed; gas and electricity were no longer furnished; the
							law courts ceased their duties, and even the apothecaries refused to prepare
							prescriptions until reforms should be granted.

						The Tsar promises (October 29, 1905) that no law shall go into force
							without the Duma's assent

						The situation soon became intolerable, and on October 29 the Tsar announced that he
							had ordered "the government" to grant the people freedom of conscience, speech, and
							association, and to permit the classes which had been excluded in his first edict to
							vote for members of the Duma. Lastly, he agreed "to establish an immutable rule that
							no law can come into force without the approval of the Duma, and that it shall be
							possible for those whom the people elect to enjoy a real supervision over the legality
							of the acts of the public officials."

						The Duma received by the Tsar, May 10, 1906

						The elections for the Duma took place in March and April, 1906, and, in spite of the
							activity of the police, resulted in an 1 For the manifesto calling the first Duma, see Readings, Vol. II, pp. 375 sqq.
							 overwhelming majority for the constitutional democrats.
							The deputies to the Duma assembled in no humble frame of mind. They came exasperated
							by the disasters of the war and the humiliations of the army and fleet, for all of
							which they held the ministers and the bureaucracy responsible; they were resolved to
							demand an account of the public income and expenditures, to punish fraud, hunt down
							and chastise the guilty, dismiss the corrupt, and purify the whole administration.
							They were determined, in a word, to give Russia an enlightened, liberal, and righteous
							constitutional government. Like the members of the Estates General in 1789, they felt
							that they had the nation behind them. They listened stonily to the Tsar's remarks at
							the opening session, and it was clear from the first that they would not agree any
							better with their monarch than the French deputies had agreed with Louis XVI and his
							courtiers.

						The Duma freely discusses the vices of the Tsar's government

						The first motion made in the Duma related to the freeing of those who had sacrificed
							their liberty for their country. In its address to the Tsar the assembly laid stress
							on the necessity of universal suffrage, and the abandoning on the part of the
							government of all its tyrannical habits. The Tsar's ministers would not cooperate with
							the Duma in any important measures of reform, and on July 21 Nicholas II declared that
							he was "cruelly disappointed" because the deputies had not confined themselves to
							their proper duties and had commented upon many matters which belonged to him. He
							accordingly dissolved the Duma,1 as he had a perfect right to do, fixed March 5, 1907, as the date for the
							meeting of a new Duma, and appointed Stolypin premier,-- an office which he held until
							his assassination in 1911.

						Atrocities and disorder continue

						The revolutionists made an unsuccessful attempt in August to blow up Premier Stolypin
							in his country house and continued to assassinate governors and police officials. The
							"Black Hundreds," on the other hand, went on massacring Jews and liberals while the
							government established courts-martial to insure the speedy trial and immediate
							execution of revolutionists. In 1 For the decree dissolving the first Duma, see Readings,
								Vol. II, pp. 377 sq.
							 the two months, September and October, 1906, these
							courts summarily condemned three hundred persons to be shot or hanged. During the
							whole year some nine thousand persons were killed or wounded for political
							reasons.

						Famine added to the other disasters

						A terrible famine was afflicting the land at the end of the year, and it was
							discovered that a member of the Tsar's ministry had been stealing the money
							appropriated to furnish grain to the dying peasants. An observer who had traveled
							eight hundred miles through the famine-stricken district reported that he did not find
							a single village where the peasants had food enough for themselves or their cattle. In
							some places the peasants were reduced to eating bark and the straw used for their
							thatch roofs.

						Dissolution of the village communities, November, 1906

						In October a ukase permitted the peasants to leave their particular village community
							and join another, or to seek employment elsewhere. On November 25 the peasants were
							empowered to become owners of their allotments, and all redemption dues were remitted.
							This constituted the first step toward a practical abolition of the system of common
							ownership by village communities, which was finally achieved by a law of June 27,
							1910.

						Second Duma meets March 5, 1907, and is soon dissolved

						In accordance with the Tsar's imperial promise the second Duma met on March 5, 1907.
							The government had declared ineligible a majority of the former Duma. It had excluded
							Milyoukov and all the other constitutional democrats that it could, and its efforts
							resulted in the election of a rather large conservative "right." But many socialists
							were returned, and the opponents of the government still had a large majority. Early
							in June Stolypin ordered the assembly to give up sixteen of its members to the police
							and expel forty others on the ground that they were implicated in a plot to overthrow
							the Tsar. The Duma appointed a committee to consider the merits of the case, but the
							police hastened to arrest the alleged leaders in the conspiracy, and the Tsar
							immediately dissolved the assembly for refusing to surrender its accused members upon
							his demand.

						

						New election regulations

						In order that the third Duma should be more docile than the first two, the Tsar and
							his ministers issued, contrary to his promises, a new set of regulations for the
							coming elections. Poland was deprived of two thirds of its representatives, while
							those from the cities were so greatly reduced that only St. Petersburg, Moscow, Kiev,
							Odessa, Warsaw, Lodz, and Riga could send any deputies at all. The influence of the
							peasants, whom the government has found almost as radical as the workingmen of the
							towns, was also much diminished.

						The third Duma, November 26, 1907, proves tractable

						As a result of these unconstitutional measures the third Duma, which met on November
							26, 1907, contained a much larger number of large landowners, retired government
							officials, priests, and other conservative members than the former assemblies. Indeed,
							it has been found so tractable by the Tsar that no new election has been held up to
							the present time (1912). It proposes no radical reforms, and the spirit of revolution
							has almost died out among the people. Parliamentary government is apparently as far
							from establishment as ever. The Tsar still retains the title of Autocrat, and his
							officials continue to violate all the principles of civil and political liberty and
							even the Tsar's own manifestoes, by abusing and oppressing the people and preventing
							them from discussing public questions.
					

					
						REFERENCES
								Russia in 1815: SEIGNOBOS, Political History of Europe since 1814, pp. 578-581; SKRINE, Expansion of Russia, pp. 8-13; Cambridge Modern History, Vol. X, chap. xiii, pp. 413-439; HAZEN, Europe since 1815, pp. 645-648.
								Alexander I and Domestic Reforms: SKRINE,
									pp. 15-85; RAMBAUD, History of Russia, Vol.
									II, pp. 383-399; HAZEN, pp. 648-650.
								Despotism under Nicholas I: SKRINE, pp.
									86-164; SEIGNOBOS, pp. 585-590; HAZEN, pp.
									650-655.
								The Emancipation of the Serfs: SEIGNOBOS,
									pp. 591-596; RAMBAUD, Vol. III, pp. 212-228; SKRINE, pp. 178-191 ; HAZEN, pp. 655-660.
								
								Growth of Opposition to Absolutism: SEIGNOBOS, pp. 603-608; RAMBAUD, Vol. III, pp. 382-388;
										SKRINE, pp. 214-222, 265-270; ROSE, The Development of European Nations, Vol. I, pp. 344-376; HAZEN, pp. 666-670.
								The Industrial Revolution in Russia: SKRINE, pp. 313-321; HAZEN, 673-676.
								Russia under Nicholas II: SKRINE, pp.
									321-348; HAZEN, pp. 676-680, 706-718.
					
				

				
					
					CHAPTER XXII
						TURKEY AND THE EASTERN QUESTION

					
						THE GREEK WAR
								OF INDEPENDENCE

						European Turkey the source of many dissensions among the
							powers

						78. It has been necessary in our narrative to refer now and again
							to the Sultan of Turkey, and especially to his troubles with his neighbors, Russia and
							Austria. In order to understand this "Eastern question,"-- which has involved the
							gradual expulsion of the Turks from Europe, the interminable quarrel over the Sultan's
							government and finances, and the formation of the new states of Servia, Roumania,
							Greece, and Bulgaria,-- it is necessary to turn back, for the moment, to the origin of
							the Turkish Empire in Europe.

						The advance and decline of Turkish power in Europe

						Although there had been an almost steady conflict between the Cross and the Crescent
							ever since the days of Mohammed, it was not until the fourteenth century that
							southeastern Europe was threatened by a Mohammedan invasion. Under Othman (died 1326)
							a Turkish tribe from western Asia established itself in Asia Minor, across the
							Bosporus from Constantinople. From their leader they derived the name of Ottoman
							Turks, to distinguish them from the Seljuk Turks with whom the Crusaders had in
							earlier centuries come in contact. Under successive sultans the Ottoman Turks extended
							their dominion into Asia Minor, Syria, Arabia, and Egypt, while to the west they
							conquered the Balkan regions and Greece. In 1453 the capital of the Eastern Empire,
							Constantinople, fell into their hands, and for a hundred and fifty years thereafter
							they were a source of serious apprehension to the states of western Europe.

						The Turks pushed up the valley of the Danube almost to the borders of the German
							Empire, and for nearly two centuries the  republic of
							Venice and the House of Hapsburg were engaged in an almost continuous war with them.
							In 1683 they laid siege to Vienna, but were defeated by the Polish king, John
							Sobieski, who came to the relief of the Austrians. The following year, the Emperor,
							Poland, and Venice formed a Holy League, which for fifteen years waged an intermittent
							war against the infidels (in which Peter the Great joined) and which, by 1699,
							succeeded in forcing the Turks out of Hungary.

						Catharine the Great wins territory on the Black Sea

						While Turkey ceased, thereafter, to be dangerously aggressive, she was able for
							several decades to resist the efforts of Russia and Austria to deprive her of further
							territory. In 1774 Catharine the Great managed to secure the Crimea and the region
							about the Sea of Azof, thus giving Russia a permanent foothold on the Black Sea.
							Moreover the Porte, as the Turkish government is commonly called, conceded to Russia
							the right to protect the Sultan's Christian subjects, most of whom were adherents of
							the Orthodox Greek Church, the State Church of Russia.1

						Russian influence in Turkey

						These and other provisions seemed to give the Russians an excuse for intervening in
							Turkish affairs, and offered an opportunity for fomenting discontent among the
							Sultan's Christian subjects. In 1812, just before Napoleon's march on Moscow,
							Alexander I forced Turkey to cede to him Bessarabia on the Black Sea, which still
							remains the last of Russia's conquests toward the southwest.

						Servia becomes a tributary principality in 1817

						Shortly after the Congress of Vienna, the Servians, who had for a number of years
							been in revolt against the Turks, were able to establish their practical independence
							(1817), and Servia, with Belgrade as its capital, became a principality tributary to
							Turkey. This was the first of a series of states which have reemerged, during the
							nineteenth century, from beneath the Mohammedan inundation.

						The national spirit is awakened in Greece

						The next state to gain its independence was Greece, whose long conflict against
							Turkish despotism aroused throughout Europe the sympathy of all who appreciated the
							glories of 1 See above, p. 435,
								note.
							 ancient Greece. The inhabitants of the land of Plato,
							Aristotle, and Demosthenes were, it is true, scarcely to be regarded as descendants of
							the Greeks, and the language they spoke bore little resemblance to the ancient tongue.
							At the opening of the nineteenth century, however, the national spirit once more awoke
							in Greece, and able writers made modern Greek a literary language and employed it in
							stirring appeals to the patriotism of their fellow-countrymen.

						The independence of Greece declared January, 1822

						In 1821 an insurrection broke out in Morea, as the ancient Peloponnesus is now
							called. The revolutionists were supported by the clergy of the Greek Church, who
							proclaimed a savage war of extermination against the infidel. The movement spread
							through the peninsula; the atrocities of the Turk were rivaled by those of the Greeks,
							and thousands of Mohammedans-- men, women, and children-- were slaughtered. On January
							27, 1822, the Greek National Assembly issued a proclamation of independence.1

						Sympathy of western Europe for the cause of Greek independence

						To Metternich this revolt seemed only another illustration of the dangers of
							revolution, but the liberals throughout Europe enthusiastically sympathized with the
							Greek uprising, since it was carried on in the name of national liberty. Intellectual
							men in England, France, Germany, and the United States held meetings to express
							sympathy for the cause, while to the ardent Christian it seemed a righteous war
							against infidels and persecutors. Soldiers and supplies poured into Greece. Indeed,
							the Greeks could scarcely have freed themselves had the European powers refused to
							intervene.

						The powers intervene in the war for Grecian independence
						The Turks defeated at Navarino in 1827
						Wallachia and Moldavia (Romania)
						Establishment of the kingdom of Greece, 1832

						It is needless to follow the long negotiations between the various European courts in
							connection with Greek affairs. In 1827 England, France, and Russia signed a treaty at
							London providing for a joint adjustment of the difficulty, on the ground that it was
							necessary to put an end to the sanguinary struggle which left Greece and the adjacent
							islands a prey "to all the disasters of anarchy, and daily causes fresh impediments to
							the 1
									See Readings, Vol. II, pp. 384 sqq.
							 commerce of Europe." The Porte having refused to accept
							the mediation of the allies, their combined fleets destroyed that of the Sultan at
							Navarino in October, 1827. Thereupon the Porte declared a "holy war" on the
							unbelievers, especially the Russians. But the latter were prepared to push the war
							with vigor, and they.not only actively promoted the freedom of Greece, but forced the
							Sultan to grant practical independence to the Danubian principalities of Wallachia and
							Moldavia, which came thereby under Russian influence. Turkey was no longer able to
							oppose the wishes of the allies, and in 1832 Greece became an independent state,
							choosing for its king Prince Otto of Bavaria.
					

					
						THE CRIMEAN WAR (1854-1856)

						The international controversy over the protection of Christians in
							Turkey

						79. A fresh excuse for interfering in Turkish affairs was afforded
							the Tsar in 1853. Complaints reached him that Christian pilgrims were not permitted by
							the Turks (who had long been in possession of the Holy Land and Jerusalem) freely to
							visit the places made sacred by their associations with the life of Jesus. Russia
							seemed the natural protector of those, at least, who adhered to her own form of
							Christianity, and the Russian ambassador rudely demanded that the Porte should grant
							the Tsar a protectorate over all the Christians in Turkey.

						France and England declare war on Russia

						When news of this situation reached Paris Napoleon III, who had recently become
							emperor and was anxious to take a hand in European affairs, declared that France, in
							virtue of earlier treaties with the Porte, enjoyed the right to protect Catholic
							Christians. He found an ally in England, whose ambassador accordingly advised the
							Sultan not to accede to Russia's demands. When the Tsar's troops marched into the
							Turkish dominions France and England came to the Sultan's assistance and declared war
							upon Russia in 1854.

						The Crimean War, 1854

						The Crimean War which followed owes its name to the fact that the operations of the
							allies against Russia culminated in the long and bloody siege of Sebastopol, in the
							southern part of the  Crimean peninsula. Every victory
							won by the allies was dearly bought. The English soldiers suffered at first in
							consequence of the inefficiency of the home government in sending them the necessary
							supplies. The charge of the light brigade at Balaklava, which has been made famous by
							Tennyson's poem, and the engagement at Inkerman were small compensation for the
							immense losses and hardships endured by both the French and the English. Russia was,
							however, disheartened by the sufferings of her own soldiers, the inefficiency and
							corruption of her officials, and the final loss of the mighty fortress of
								Sebastopol.1 She saw,
							moreover, that her near neighbor, Austria, was about to join her enemies. The new
							Tsar, Alexander II, therefore, consented in 1856 to the terms of a treaty drawn up at
								Paris.2

						Terms of the Treaty of Paris, 1856
						The Black Sea declared neutral

						This treaty recognized the independence of the Ottoman Empire and guaranteed its
							territorial integrity. The "Sublime Porte" was also included within the scope of the
							international law of Europe, from which it had hitherto been excluded as a barbarous
							government, and the other powers agreed not to interfere further with the domestic
							affairs of Turkey. The Sultan drew up a special decree in which he referred to "his
							generous intentions toward his Christian subjects" and promised religious liberty as
							well as reforms in the government. The Black Sea was declared neutral territory and
							its waters were thrown open to merchant ships of all nations, but no war ships were to
							pass through the Bosporus or Dardanelles. In short, Turkey was preserved and
							strengthened by the intervention of the powers as a bulwark against Russian
							encroachment into the Balkan peninsula, but nothing was really done to reform the
							Turkish administration or to make the lot of the Christian subjects more secure.

						1 For a description of
							scenes in the storming of Sebastopol, see Readings, Vol. II, pp. 391
								sqq.

						2 It will be remembered
							that Sardinia had joined the allies against Russia, and in this way forced the powers
							to admit it to the deliberations at Paris, where Cavour seized the opportunity to
							plead the cause of Italy. See above, p. 313.
					

					
					
					

					
						REVOLTS IN THE BALKAN PENINSULA

						Terrible conditions in Bosnia and Herzegovina under Turkish
							rule

						80. Some idea of the situation of the people under the Sultan's
							rule may be derived from the report of an English traveler (Mr. Arthur Evans) in 1875.
							In the Turkish provinces of Bosnia and Herzegovina he found that outside the large
							towns, where European consuls were present, neither the honor, property, nor lives of
							the Christians were safe, because the authorities were blind to any outrage committed
							by a Mohammedan. The Sultan's taxes fell principally on the peasants, in the form of a
							tenth of their produce. It was a common custom for the collectors (who were often not
							Mohammedans but brutal Christians) to require the peasant to pay the tax in cash
							before the harvesting of the ripe crop, and if he could not meet the charges, the
							taxgatherer simply said, "Then your harvest shall rot on the ground till you pay it."
							When this oppression was resisted the most cruel punishments were meted out to the
							offenders.

						The Bulgarian atrocities (1876)

						In 1874 a failure of crops aggravated the intolerable conditions and an insurrection
							broke out in Bosnia and Herzegovina which set the whole Balkan peninsula aflame. The
							Bulgarians around Philippopolis, incited to hopes of independence by the events in the
							states to the west, assassinated some of the Turkish officials and gave the Ottoman
							government a pretext for the most terrible atrocities in the history of Turkish rule
							in Europe.

						Gladstone pleads with his countrymen to aid the Balkan
							Christians

						While the European powers, in their usual fashion, were exchanging futile diplomatic
							notes on the situation, Servia and Montenegro declared war on the Sultan, and the
							Christians in the Balkan region made a frantic appeal to the West for immediate help.
							A good deal naturally depended on the position taken by England,-- the stanch defender
							of Turkey. Gladstone, then leader of the Liberals, urged his countrymen to break the
							unholy alliance between England and "the unspeakable Turk." But Gladstone's party was
							not in power, and Lord Beaconsfield was fearful that English encouragement to the
							Slavic rebels  in the Sultan's dominions would only
							result in their becoming independent and allying themselves with England's enemy,
							Russia. The English believed that in the interest of their trade they must continue to
							resist any movement which might destroy the power of the Sultan, who was not likely to
							hamper their eastern commerce.

						Russia overwhelms the Sultan in a short war, 1877-1878

						The negotiations of the powers having come to nothing, Russia determined, in 1877, to
							act alone. Her declaration of war was shortly followed by Russian victories, and in
							1878 a Russian army entered Adrianople,-- which was equivalent to an announcement to
							the world that Ottoman dominion in Europe had come to an end. England protested, but
							the Sultan was forced to sign the Treaty of San Stefano with the Tsar and to recognize
							the complete independence of Servia, Montenegro, and Roumania,1 while Bulgaria was made independent except
							for the payment of tribute to the Sultan.

						England forces a settlement of Turkish affairs in the Berlin
							Conference in 1878

						England expressed serious objections to this treaty and forced Tsar Alexander II to
							submit the whole matter to the consideration of a general European Congress at Berlin,
							where, after prolonged and stormy sessions, the powers agreed to many of the terms of
							the Treaty of San Stefano.2 The
							Tsar was permitted to annex a district to the east of the Black Sea, including the
							towns of Batum and Kars. The provinces of Bosnia and Herzegovina were to be occupied
							and administered by AustriaHungary.3

						The Bulgarians discontented with the Berlin Treaty

						The territorial settlement at Berlin, like that at Vienna half a century before,
							disregarded many national aspirations. The Bulgarians were especially disappointed
							with the arrangement, for, instead of being all united in one state, as they had
							hoped, 1 In 1862 the
								so-called "Danubian Provinces" of Moldavia and Wallachia had formed a voluntary
								union under the name "Roumania." In 1866 the Roumanians chose for their ruler a
								German prince, Charles of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen, who in 1881 was proclaimed King
								of Roumania as Carol I.
							2 For extracts from the
								Treaty of Berlin, see Readings, Vol. II, pp. 397 sq.
							3 They were finally
								annexed by Austria-Hungary in 1908. See below, pp. 516sqq., 530, and Readings,
								Vol. II, p. 401.
							 they were separated into three distinct divisions. The
							region between the Danube and the Balkans, with some slight additions, became the
							principality of Bulgaria, tributary to the Sultan. The region to the south was made a
							Turkish province, Eastern Roumelia, under a Christian governor general. The third
							division, comprising a large portion of Macedonia and the region about Adrianople, was
							left under the direct administration of Turkish officials.

						Union of Bulgaria and Eastern Roumelia, 1885

						Under the terms of the treaty the inhabitants of the Bulgarian principality proceeded
							to frame a constitution and chose as their prince, Alexander of Battenberg (succeeded
							by Ferdinand of Coburg in 1886). They adopted as their watchword, "Bulgaria for the
							Bulgarians," and took the first step toward the reunion of their race by a bloodless
							revolution in 1885 which joined Eastern Roumelia and Bulgaria.1 At length, in 1908, they threw off the
							Sultan's rule and took their place among the independent nations of the world.

						Turkish dominion in Europe now restricted to the Macedonian region
							inhabited by Greeks, Bulgarians, Servians, Roumanians, and Albanians

						Thus the Turkish Empire in Europe has shrunk to a narrow strip of territory,-- less
							in extent than the state of Missouri,-- extending from the Black Sea to the Adriatic,
							to which the name Macedonia is generally applied. This area is broken everywhere by
							mountain ranges and is inhabited by such a complicated mixture of races that it has
							been aptly called "a perfect ethnographic museum." Along the coast line of the Ægean
							Sea and the borders of Greece the Greeks, numbering roughly three hundred thousand,
							predominate. To the north and east, over against Bulgaria and Eastern Roumelia, dwell
							Bulgarians who have not yet been incorporated into the kingdom of Bulgaria. In the
							north-central regions are the Serbs, who are not sharply marked off from the
							Bulgarians because the languages of the two peoples, though differing in Servia and
							Bulgaria, are somewhat blended in the Macedonian regions. Scattered through the
							central districts are the Macedonian 1 This clear violation of the Treaty of Berlin was sanctioned
								in 1886, when the powers recognized the Bulgarian prince as governor general of
								Eastern Roumelia.
							 "Rumans," of old Thracian stock, but roughly latinized
							in language and civilization by the Roman colonists who settled in this country after
							the Roman conquest of Greece. In the west, bordering on the Adriatic, are the
							Albanians, a wild people, primitive in their civilization and lawless in their habits.
							Almost two thirds of them have accepted Mohammedanism, and they are often used by the
							Sultan to overawe their Christian neighbors in the rest of Macedonia.

						Disorders in Macedonia

						Clearly a population representing so many races, and varying in stages of culture
							from wild mountain outlaws to orderly industrial communities, would present grave
							problems even to a government which was entirely honest and efficient. As it is,
							Christian bandits carry off other Christians into the mountains and hold them for
							ransom; isolated uprisings often result in the assassination of the Mohammedan
							officials in the district; and constant friction between the two faiths makes orderly
							government impossible. The Turkish administration in Macedonia is bound to excite
							opposition and disorder, in which it cannot be denied that many of the Christians
							delight to share. Lingering only by the sufferance of the powers, it seems inevitably
							doomed to extinction. Even the overthrow of Sultan Abdul-Hamid II in 1909 and the
							establishment of constitutional government in Turkey do not seem to have improved the
							condition of affairs in the European dominions.1
					

					
						THE INDEPENDENT BALKAN STATES

						Development of Greece since independence

						81. Unhappy as are the Macedonian peoples still under direct rule
							of the Turks, it can scarcely be said that the success of the independent states--
							Greece, Servia, Roumania, and Montenegro-- is such as to encourage greatly those who
							advocate self-government for the minor nations in the Balkan regions. Shortly after
							winning their independence the Greeks revolted against their newly chosen sovereign
							because he 1 For recent revolutionary events in Turkey, see below, pp. 516
									sqq.
							 attempted to rule arbitrarily, and in 1862 they
							expelled him from his kingdom and chose in his stead the present ruler, George I, son
							of the former king of Denmark.1
							In the mountain regions bands of brigands were long so powerful as to defy the police
							and make traveling dangerous. The fertile soil of the valleys is badly tilled by an
							ignorant peasantry overburdened with taxes, and the persistent efforts of the
							government to educate the people still leaves about one third of the population
							illiterate.

						Efforts to bring all Greeks within the kingdom have so far
							failed

						Notwithstanding adverse circumstances, the Greeks are ambitious to become a great and
							enlightened nation, and they have driven themselves almost into bankruptcy in the
							construction of canals, railways, and roads, and in the maintenance of a large army.
							They regard themselves as morally bound to free, as soon as possible, their fellow
							Greeks still under Ottoman rule in Macedonia, Asia Minor, Crete, and the other islands
							in the eastern Mediterranean, and in 1897 they declared war on Turkey in the hope of
							accomplishing their long-cherished designs. Though sadly worsted in this war, they
							have not ceased to encourage agitation in Crete, but Great Britain, France, Russia,
							and Italy guard it in the name of the Sultan.2

						Revolutions in Servia

						Nowhere in the Balkan regions has the experiment of self-government been less
							successful than in the kingdom of Servia, which was declared independent in 1878 after
							about sixty years of practical exemption from Turkish authority. Its ruler, who, in
							1882, assumed the title of King Milan I, proved to be both despotic and immoral, and
							the radicals among his subjects forced him to call a national assembly, which drew up
							a new constitution in 1889. Angered at this interference, Milan abdicated, declaring
							that he would not be a puppet king. His son, 1 After the expulsion of Otto the Greeks drew up a constitution
								(1864) which provided for a parliament of one chamber elected by popular vote. In
								1911 it was modified and a sort of a second chamber established.
							2 After two years of
								civil war in Crete the powers gave the king of Greece the right to nominate the
								Cretan governor, or high commissioner as he is called, and in February, 1907, a new
								constitution was drawn up for Crete.
							 Alexander, proved even less acceptable to the nation,
							for he suspended the new constitution and recalled his father from exile. In 1903 King
							Alexander was assassinated by some discontented army officers, and the Servians then
							chose for their ruler Peter Karageorgevitch, the grandson of Kara George, or "Black
							George," who in the early part of the nineteenth century had led the struggle for
							independence and become a national hero.

						Roumania troubles with agrarian disorders

						Although the Roumanian kingdom has undergone no palace revolutions like the
							neighboring Servia, it has suffered from political agitations and agrarian disorders.
							The constitution is so arranged as to vest nearly all political power in the hands of
							those possessing considerable property; and this state of affairs rouses the constant
							protests of a rapidly growing radical party. Even more serious, however, than the
							political agitation is the unrest among the peasants who compose the vast majority of
							the nation. They claim that ever since the emancipation of the serfs, in 1864, they
							have been the victims of grasping money lenders and tyrannical landlords.

						Bulgaria gaining in prosperity

						The new state, Bulgaria, which secured its independence in 1908, is in many respects
							the most promising of all. It has a population of over four millions, and good order
							is being maintained there under a democratic constitution. Through the growing trade
							at the ports on the Black Sea the wealth of the kingdom is increasing rapidly.

						Montenegro secures constitutional government in 1905

						The petty kingdom of Montenegro, smaller in area than the state of Connecticut and
							with a population of about two hundred and thirty thousand, has caused Europe more
							trouble than its size warrants, but since it became independent in 1878 it has ceased
							to be of any particular interest. Until 1905 it was governed by an absolute prince,
							but he was at last forced to adopt the fashion of western Europe and establish
							constitutional government with a parliament elected by popular vote. In 1910 the
							prince assumed the title of king.
					

					

					
						REFERENCES
								The Turkish Empire in 1814: SEIGNOBOS,
										Political History of Europe since 1814, pp. 616-619; HAZEN, Europe since 1815, pp. 601-604.
								The Establishment of Grecian Independence: SEIGNOBOS, pp. 619-621, 648-652 ; PHILLIPS, Modern History, 1815-1899, pp. 145-167; HAZEN, pp.
									604-611.
								The Crimean War: SEIGNOBOS, pp. 789-793;
										SKRINE, Expansion of Russia, pp. 154-178;
										FYFFE, History of Modern Europe, pp.
									824-865; RAMBAUD, History of Russia, Vol.
									III, pp. 85-206; KENDALL, Source Book of English
										History, pp. 427-434; HAZEN, pp. 611-617.
								The Eastern Question: ROSE, Development of European Nations, Vol. I, pp. 184-224.
								The Russo-Turkish War and the Settlement of 1878: SEIGNOBOS, pp. 823-827; SKRINE, pp. 245-264;
										FYFFE, pp. 1020-1052; PHILLIPS, pp.
									486-523; RAMBAUD, Vol. III, pp. 325-381; ROSE, Vol. I, pp. 225-298; HAZEN, pp. 620-627.
						Roumania: SEIGNOBOS, pp. 640-648.
								Servia, Montenegro, and Bulgaria: SEIGNOBOS, pp. 657-669; ROSE, Vol. I, pp. 299-343; HAZEN, pp. 627-633.
					
				

				
					

					CHAPTER XXIII
						THE EXPANSION OF EUROPE IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY

					
						THE GROWTH OF INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND COMPETITION
							: IMPERIALISM

						England theleading industrial nation of the world in 1815

						82. During the first half of the nineteenth century, England stood
							easily at the head of all the nations of the world in the output of her mines and
							factories and the vast extent of her commerce. Napoleon's efforts to render the
							Continent independent of England and her colonies had failed; there was not a single
							steam engine in France in 1812, and it was not until after Napoleon's fall that France
							set herself seriously to compete with England by the introduction of machinery.
							Germany was less favorably situated than France, since it had for years been the main
							theater of long and devastating wars. It was not a united nation, but a collection of
							practically independent states which were divided, previous to the development of the
								Zoliverein, by high tariff duties, and embarrassed by a great
							variety of coinage. Italy and Austria suffered from similar disadvantages.

						The United States an agricultural country in 1815

						The United States of America, now so formidable in every market of the world, had in
							1815 a small and scattered population. Its interests were almost exclusively
							agricultural, and although its ships enjoyed a considerable carrying trade on the high
							seas, its people lacked the capital necessary to develop the immense natural resources
							of the country and thereby become a serious menace to the manufacturers of the Old
							World.

						All of the great nations now rivals for foreign trade

						In considering the development of commerce and industry since 1815 it is necessary to
							distinguish between the manufacturing which is carried on within a country to meet its
							own  demands, and the production of commodities destined
							to be sold at a profit to other countries. During the Middle Ages, although there was
							some commerce, production was carried on principally for domestic consumption.
							Gradually, however, international trade has taken on larger and larger proportions and
							has now become one of the most striking characteristics of our present civilization.
							The introduction of machinery in England naturally led her manufacturers to lay more
							and more stress upon foreign trade, since they could readily produce a great deal more
							than they could sell at home. The progress of industry on the Continent and in the
							United States has produced exactly the same result, and the nations of the earth have
							now become rivals in their eagerness to secure as large a share of the world's markets
							as possible.

						Beginnings of steam navigation

						Closely connected with this prodigious expansion of commerce has been the development
							of the means of transportation and communication. The discovery that steam could be
							used to carry goods cheaply and speedily to all parts of the world has made it
							possible for the manufacturer to widen his market indefinitely, and has, in fact, made
							the world one great market place.

						The problem of applying steam to navigation had long occupied inventors, but the
							honor of making the steamship a success commercially belongs to Robert Fulton. In the
							spring of 1807 he launched his Clermont at New York, and in the
							autumn of that year the "new water monster" made its famous trip to Albany.1 Transoceanic navigation began in
							1819 with the voyage of the steamer Savannah from Savannah to St. Petersburg via Great
							Britain. The trip to Liverpool was made in twenty-five days, sails being used to help
							the engine.

						Steady increase in the size and speed of ocean vessels

						Within a quarter of a century steamships began to replace the old and uncertain
							sailing vessels, and to-day they compose two thirds of the net tonnage of the world's
							merchant marine.2
							1 For Fulton's account of
								the trip, see Readings, Vol. II, pp. 406 sq.
							2 Yet, contrary to common
								opinion, there is a steady increase in the number of sailing vessels used. They are
								easily manned, require no coal, and, where speed is not important, promise to hold
								their own on the high seas for many generations.
							 In 1840 the great Cunard Steamship Company inaugurated
							its transatlantic service, and since that time there has been a steady development in
							the number of navigation companies, as well as in the number of steam vessels and in
							their capacity for speed and freight. The Great Western, which
							startled the world in 1838 by steaming from Bristol to New York in fifteen days and
							ten hours, was a ship of 1378 tons, 212 feet long, and had an indicated horse power of
							1260, with a daily consumption of 36 tons of coal. The Lusitania,
							launched in 1907, has a gross tonnage of 32,500 tons, engines of 68,000 horse power,
							is 785 feet long, and carries a supply of over 5000 tons of coal for its journey
							across the Atlantic, which lasts less than five days. A new German vessel, the Imperator, launched in 1912, has a tonnage of over 50,000 tons.

						The oceans now marked with commercial routes

						It is now possible to make the journey from Southampton to New York, three thousand
							miles, in five days or less, with almost the regularity of an express train. A
							commercial map of the world shows that the globe is now crossed in every direction by
							definite routes which are followed by innumerable freight and passenger steamers
							passing regularly from one port to another.

						The Suez Canal completed in 1869

						The East and the West have been brought much nearer together by the piercing of the
							Isthmus of Suez, which formerly barred the way from the Mediterranean Sea to the
							Indian Ocean. This enterprise was carried out under the direction of the great French
							engineer Ferdinand de Lesseps. After ten years of work the canal was opened to traffic
							in November, 1869. In 1905 over five thousand vessels took advantage of it, thus
							avoiding the detour of thousands of miles involved in rounding the Cape of Good Hope.
							An agreement among all the leading European powers provides that the canal shall be
							open at all times for war ships as well as merchantmen, but no act of war shall be
							permitted in its neighborhood.

						Proposed Panama Canal

						The Isthmus of Panama offers an obstacle to trade which has for years been the object
							of discussion and negotiations. In 1872 President Grant appointed a commission to
							consider  the construction of a canal, but nothing was
							done until 1881, when de Lesseps, encouraged by the flattering success of his first
							venture, succeeded in organizing the Panama Canal Company in France and work was
							actually begun. But the efforts to obtain the necessary funds for completing the
							costly enterprise led to widespread bribery of members of the French Parliament, which
							was disclosed in 1892. This scandal was followed by the dissolution of the French
							company. In 1902 the Congress of the United States authorized the President to
							purchase for forty million dollars the property in which the French investors had sunk
							so much money. Arrangements with the republic of Colombia for the construction of the
							canal by the United States having come to naught, the state of Panama, through which
							the line of the proposed canal passes, seceded from Colombia in 1903, and its
							independence was immediately recognized by President Roosevelt. A treaty in regard to
							the canal zone was then duly concluded with the new republic, and after some delays
							the work of the French company was resumed by the United States and is now progressing
							rapidly.

						The beginnings of steam locomotion on land

						Just as the gigantic modern steamship has taken the place of the schooner and clipper
							for the rapid trade of the world, so, on land, the merchandise which used to be
							dragged by means of horses and oxen or carried in slow canal boats is being
							transported in long trains of capacious cars, each of which holds as much as fifteen
							or twenty large wagons. The story of the locomotive, like that of the spinning machine
							or steam engine, is the history of many experiments and their final combination by a
							successful inventor. Scores of inventors were at work on the problem and thus smoothed
							the way for the triumph of George Stephenson.

						George Stephenson (1781-1848) and the development of railways in
							England

						This distinguished inventor, in 1814, built a small locomotive, known as "Puffing
							Billy," which was used at the mines, and in 1825, with the authorization of
							Parliament, he opened between Stockton and Darlington, in the northern part of
							England, a line  for the conveyance of passengers and
							freight. About this time a road was being projected between Liverpool and Manchester,
							and in an open competition, in which five locomotives were entered, Stephenson's
							"Rocket" was chosen for the new railroad, which was formally opened in 1830.1 This famous engine weighed about
							seven tons and ran at an average speed of thirteen miles an hour,-- a small affair
							when compared with the giant locomotive of our day, weighing a hundred tons and
							running fifty miles an hour.2
							Within fifteen years trains were running regularly between Liverpool, Manchester,
							Birmingham, and London, and at the close of the century Great Britain had twenty-two
							thousand miles of railway carrying over a billion passengers annually.

						Many German railways owned by the government

						The first railway was opened in Germany in 1835, but the development of the system
							was greatly hindered by the territorial divisions which then existed. It was in the
							great state of Prussia that construction went on with the most rapidity, largely under
							government ownership and control. Some of the lines were built directly by the
							government, and others were later purchased by it. This policy has been continued, and
							at present by far the greater part of the German railways are owned by the imperial or
							by state governments. In Austria-Hungary, also, the majority of the lines are owned or
							operated by the goverment.

						The French government aids in the construction of railways

						The first railway in France was built in 1828, but owing to the timidity of investors
							the development was slow. Five years later the government took up the project of
							connecting Paris and the principal cities by railway lines, and it guaranteed in 1840
							the interest on the investment required for the construction of a line from the
							capital to Orleans. Two years later the government agreed to furnish about one half of
							the money necessary to build a vast railway system throughout France, leaving the work
							of construction and operation largely in the hands of private 1 For an account of the opening, see Readings, Vol. II, pp. 409 sqq.
							2 It will be noted that
								this is the "average" speed on regular runs. For short distances the "Rocket" made
								thirty-five miles an hour, while the modern locomotive, as is well known, sometimes
								runs over a hundred miles an hour.
							 companies. As a result of this intervention on the part
							of the State, there are three types of railways in France: those which have been
							largely financed by the government but are operated by private companies; those which
							are entirely private; and those owned and operated by the State. According to the
							terms of the franchises, however, all the French railways will eventually revert to
							the State.

						Railway construction in Africa and Asia

						Not only is Europe bound together by a network of nearly two hundred thousand miles
							of railway, but railway construction Africa and is rapidly advancing in Africa and
							Asia, preparing cheap outlets for the products of western mills and mines. As we have
							seen, the Trans-Siberian road has connected Europe overland with the Pacific,1 and Russia has also pushed lines
							southward toward Persia and Afghanistan; British India has over thirty thousand miles,
							and China about six thousand miles, of railways. Even Africa has over twenty thousand
							miles, most of which is in Egypt, Algeria, Tunis, and the British possessions. Before
							long, trains from Cairo to the Cape will rush through the jungle lands which were
							first penetrated by the white man in Queen Victoria's reign.

						Development of rapid means of communication,-- the penny post

						Quite as essential to the world market as railway and steamship lines are the easy
							and inexpensive means of communication afforded by the post, telephone, telegraph, and
							cable. The English "penny post" is now so commonplace as no longer to excite wonder,
							but to men of Frederick the Great's time it would have seemed impossible. Until 1839
							in England the postage on an ordinary letter was a shilling for a short distance. In
							that year a reform measure long advocated by Rowland Hill was carried, establishing a
							uniform penny post throughout Great Britain. The result of reducing the rate of
							postage for letters to this nominal sum exceeded all expectations in vastly increasing
							the frequency with which people wrote to one another. Other European countries have
							followed the example of Great Britain in reducing postage, and now the world is moving
							rapidly in 1 See above, p. 443.
							 the direction of a universal two-cent rate. Already a
							letter can be carried from Basutoland in South Africa to Montreal, Canada, for two
							cents in less time than it took news to cross the Atlantic when Queen Victoria came to
							the throne.

						Telegraphs and cables
						Wireless telegraphy

						No less wonderful is the development of the telegraph system. In 1911 the British
							post office operated over 1,230,000 miles of telegraph and telephone wire and
							transmitted nearly 90,000,000 messages. Moreover distant and obscure places in Africa
							and Asia are being brought into close touch with one another and with Europe. China
							now has lines connecting all the important cities of the republic and affording direct
							overland communication between Peking and Paris. The wonderful network is spreading
							into Africa,-- the French, German, and British possessions being already well
							equipped. In October, 1907, Marconi established regular communication across the
							Atlantic by means of the wireless system of telegraphy discovered some years before;
							and ocean steamships are now equipped with wireless instruments which enable them to
							communicate with the land and other vessels at all times. It was this marvelous
							equipment which brought assistance to the survivors of the Titanic after its wreck in
							1912.

						The Industrial Revolution favors growth of foreign trade

						The Industrial Revolution which enables Europe to produce far more goods than it can
							sell in its own markets, and the rapid transportation which permits producers to
							distribute their commodities over the whole surface of the globe, have combined to
							produce the modern competition for foreign markets. The European nations have secured
							the control of practically all the territory occupied by defenseless peoples in Africa
							and Asia, and have introduced western ideas of business into China and Japan, where
							steamships now ply the navigable rivers, and railroads are being rapidly built.

						Necessity for investments stimulates imperialism

						The process of colonization and of westernizing the Oriental peoples has been further
							hastened by the anxiety of capitalists to find advantageous investments for their
							surplus wealth. The profits of industry pile up so rapidly that stock companies are
								 everywhere formed to develop railroads and mines in
							backward countries. Great Britain alone is said to have about ten billion dollars
							invested abroad; one fifth of Russian industrial enterprises are financed by
							foreigners, who are also to a considerable extent constructing the railroads in China.
							The Germans supply the money for large banking concerns in Brazil, Buenos Ayres, and
							Valparaiso, which in turn stimulate industry and the construction of railways.

						Influence of manufactures and capitalists on foreign policies of
							government
						Nature of modern imperialism

						These two powerful forces-- factories seeking markets and capital seeking
							investment-- are shaping the foreign and commercial policies of every important
							European country. They alone explain why the great industrial nations are embarking on
							what has been termed a policy of imperialism, which means a policy
							of adding distant territories for the purpose of controlling their products, getting
							the trade with the natives, and investing money in the development of natural
								resources.1 Sometimes this
							imperialism takes the form of outright annexation, such as the acquisition of the
							Philippines by the United States, or of Togoland by Germany. Again, it assumes the
							form of a "protectorate," which is a declaration on the part of a nation to the effect
							that, "This is our particular piece of land; we are not intending to take all the
							responsibility of governing it just now; but we want other nations to keep out, for we
							may annex it sooner or later." Sometimes imperialism goes no farther than the securing
							of concessions in undeveloped countries, such as foreigners have obtained in China or
							citizens of the United States in Mexico; but such concessions are a fruitful source of
							annexations, especially when the interests of investors are not thoroughly protected
							by the government that grants them franchises.

						The missionaries prepare the way for imperialism

						The way for imperialism had been smoothed by the missionaries.2 There have always been ardent Christians
							ready to obey the command, "Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel 1 For an argument in favor of
								imperialism, see Readings, Vol. II, pp. 411 sqq.
							2 See Readings, Vol. II, pp. 415 sqq.
							 to every creature" (Mark xvi. 15). No
							sooner was a new country brought to the attention of Europeans than missionaries
							flocked thither with the traders and soldiers. When America was discovered and the sea
							route opened to the East, the Franciscan and Dominican friars braved every danger to
							bring the gospel to them that sat in darkness. They were reinforced about 1540 by the
							powerful Jesuit order. Francis Xavier began his famous missionary career in 1542,
							first visiting India, then Japan, and dying within sight of the shores of China,
							yearning to penetrate that mysterious land. The activities of his fellow-Jesuits in
							Canada and the Mississippi Valley and in South America have been mentioned
							earlier.

						Roman Catholic missions

						In 1622 the great missionary board of the Roman Catholic Church was given its final
							organization and the name it still retains,-- Congregatio de propaganda
								Fide. It has its head-quarters at Rome and is composed of twenty-nine cardinals
							and their assistants. In its colleges and schools missionaries are trained for their
							work and taught the requisite languages. Its printing office issues the necessary
							books and tracts. Of the various Catholic associations which have been formed to
							assist it in its work the most important is the Society for the Propagation of the
							Faith, which, since its formation at Lyons in 1822, has contributed over seventy
							million dollars to the cause. The Roman Catholic Church now reckons millions of
							adherents in Turkey, Persia, Arabia, India, Siam, Indo-China, Malaysia, the Chinese
							Republic, Korea, Japan, Africa, and Polynesia.

						Protestant missions

						For a long time after the Protestant Revolt the reformed churches showed little ardor
							for foreign missions, although as early as 1556 Calvin's city of Geneva sent men to
							preach the gospel in Brazil. The Dutch undertook to Christianize the East Indies in
							1602, and their rivals, the English, also did something to promote missions. Among the
							earliest Protestant missionary associations was the Society for the Promotion of
							Christian Knowledge, founded in 1695 and conducted under the auspices of the Church of
							England. In the eighteenth century the  Moravians and
							Methodists joined in the efforts to convert the heathen, and in 1792 William Carey, a
							cobbler and Baptist minister, formed the Baptist Missionary Union.

						The United States entered the field in 1810, when the American Board of Foreign
							Missions was organized. As time went on, practically all the Protestant denominations
							established each its board of foreign missions, and the United States has rivaled
							Europe in the distinction and energy of the missionaries it has sent out and in the
							generous support its people have given them. About the middle of the nineteenth
							century the various boards began to hold conferences with the object of rendering
							their work more efficient by cooperation and by dividing up the fields among the
							various boards. Bible societies have been engaged in translating the Scriptures into
							every known language and scattering copies of them broadcast. It is estimated that
							Protestants contribute about twenty million dollars a year to foreign missions. This
							sum serves to support some fourteen or fifteen thousand missionaries, who have
							gathered into their churches a million and a half converts.

						Important effects of missions spreading European culture

						Missionaries have usually been the first to bring regions remote from Europe into
							contact with western civilization. They have not alone spread the knowledge of the
							Christian religion and its standards of morality, but have carried with them modern
							scientific ideas and modern inventions. They have reduced to writing the languages of
							peoples previously ignorant of the existence of an alphabet. They have conquered cruel
							superstitions, extirpated human sacrifices and cannibalism, and done much to make the
							lot of woman more tolerable. Their physicians have introduced rational methods of
							treating the sick, and their schools have given an education to millions who without
							them would have been left in complete barbarism. Finally, they have encouraged
							thousands of Japanese, Chinese, and representatives of other peoples to visit Europe
							and America. and thus prepare themselves to become apostles of western ideas among
							their fellows. The explorations and investigations carried  on by the missionaries have served vastly to increase the general
							knowledge of the world and its inhabitants. Their maps and their scientific reports on
							languages and customs have in many instances proved of the highest value. They have
							also created a demand for western commodities and opened the way for trade.

						How missions have led to the extension of European control in Asia
							and Africa

						In some instances the missionaries have doubtless shown too little appreciation of
							the ancient culture of India, China, and Japan. They have rudely denounced the
							cherished traditions and the rooted prejudices of the peoples to whom they came. Even
							the most prudent and sagacious among them could hardly have avoided arousing the
							hostility of those whose most revered institutions they felt it their duty to attack.
							So it has come about that the missionaries have often been badly treated, have
							undergone great hardships, and have even been murdered by infuriated mobs. This has
							led to the armed interference of their respective governments, and has more than once,
							as we shall see, served as an excuse for annexations and the formation of
							protectorates and spheres of influence. Some illustrations of the rôle of the
							missionaries will be found in the following sections. We shall turn first to the
							development of Europe's interest in China.
					

					
						RELATIONS OF EUROPE WITH CHINA

						The Portuguese and Dutch visit Canton

						83. The relations of Europe to China extend back into ancient
							times. Some of the Roman emperors, including Marcus Aurelius, sent embassies to the
							Chinese monarch, and in the Middle Ages missionaries labored to introduce Christianity
							into China. It was not, however, until after the opening of the water route around the
							Cape of Good Hope that European trade with China became important. Early in the
							sixteenth century the Portuguese merchants appeared in Chinese harbors, offering
							western merchandise in exchange for tea and silks. In 1537 the Portuguese rented a
							trifling bit of land of Macao, off Canton-- a post which they hold to-day.

						
						

						 

						
						

						Chinese exclusiveness

						It must be said, however, that the Chinese did not welcome foreign interference.
							Their officials regarded the European merchants as barbarians. When, in 1655, the
							Dutch sent two envoys to the Chinese emperor, they were only received on condition
							that they would prostrate themselves before his throne and strike their heads nine
							times on the earth as evidence of their inferiority. In spite of this treatment Dutch
							and English merchants flocked to Canton, the sole port at which the Chinese emperor
							permitted regular commerce with foreign countries.

						The "Opium War"

						Repeated efforts were made, particularly by the English, to get into direct
							communication with the government at Peking, but they were steadily rebuffed and were
							only able to establish the commercial relations which they sought by an armed conflict
							in 1840, known as the " Opium War."1 The Chinese had attempted to prevent all traffic in this drug, but the
							English found it so profitable that they were unwilling to give up the trade. When, in
							1839, the Chinese government seized many thousand chests of opium and informed the
							British that the traffic would have to stop, war broke out.

						Treaty ports opened

						The British, of course, with their modern implements of warfare, were speedily
							victorious, and the Chinese were forced to agree, in the Treaty of Nanking, to pay a
							heavy indemnity, to cede to the British the island of Honkong, which lies at the mouth
							of the Canton River, and to open to foreign commerce the ports of Amoy, Fuchau,
							Ningpo, and Shanghai on the same terms as Canton. The United States, taking advantage
							of this war, secured similar commercial privileges in 1844.

						From the Opium War to the present date China has been troubled with foreign
							invasions. Napoleon III, supported by the English, waged war on China in 1858 and
							forced the emperor to open new ports to European trade, including Tientsin, which was
							dangerously near the imperial city of Peking. Since that time other leading ports have
							been opened, and now there are over forty points where foreign merchants 1 See Readings, Vol. II, pp. 419 sqq.
							 may conduct operations, although Canton and Shanghai
							are still the most important. Some inland towns have also been opened and now offer
							advantages for extending commerce far beyond the seacoast, to which trade had been so
							long confined.
					

					
						HOW JAPAN BECAME A WORLD POWER

						The position and extend of the empire of Japan

						84. To the northeast of China lies a long group of islands which,
							if they lay off the eastern coast of North America, would extend from Maine to
							Georgia. This archipelago, comprising four main islands and some four thousand smaller
							ones, is the center of the Japanese Empire. Fifty years ago Japan was still almost
							completely isolated from the rest of the world; but now, through a series of
							extraordinary events, she has become one of the conspicuous members of the family of
							nations. American newspapers deal as fully with her foreign policy as with that of
							France or Germany; we are familiar with the portraits of her statesmen and warriors,
							and her exquisite art has many enthusiastic admirers in England and America. Her
							people, who are somewhat more numerous than the inhabitants of the British Isles,
							resemble the Chinese in appearance and owe to China the beginnings of their culture
							and their art, for it was Buddhist missionaries from Korea who, in the sixth century,
							first aroused Japan from its previous barbarism.

						The feudal period in Japan

						Little is known of the early Mikados (emperors) of Japan, and during the twelfth
							century the shogun, or commander in chief of the empire, was able to
							bring the sovereign powers into his own hands (somewhat as the mayor of the palace had
							done in the Frankish kingdom), while the emperor began to live in retirement in his
							capital of Kyoto. Conditions in Japan resembled those in western Europe during the
							same period. Scattered about the country were the castles of powerful feudal lords
							(the daimios), who continued, until the nineteenth century, to enjoy
							powers similar to the vassals of the mediaeval European kings.

						Brief period of intercourse with Europeans in the late sixteenth and
							early seventeenth century

						Rumors of the existence of Japan reached Europe through the Venetian traveler, Marco
							Polo, at the end of the thirteenth  century, but the
							Portuguese navigator Pinto appears to have been the first European to reach Japan, in
							the year 1542. Some years later the great Jesuit missionary, Francis Xavier,
							accompanied by some Japanese who had been converted to Christianity a at Goa, made the
							first attempt to preach the Christian faith in the island. Spanish missionaries from
							Manila carried on the work, and it is reported that within thirty years.two hundred
							Christian churches had been erected and fifty thousand converts made.

						Persecution of Christian missionaries and expulsion of
							foreigners

						The arrogance of the bishops, however, led the Japanese government to issue an edict,
							in 1586, forbidding the Japanese to accept Christianity, and ten years later some
							twenty thousand converts are said to have been put to death. For a time the shoguns
							favored the few Dutch and English merchants who came to their shores and permitted
							factories to be opened at Yedo and elsewhere, but the quarrels between the Dutch and
							English and the constant drain of silver paid out for foreign merchandise led the
							Japanese to impose restrictions on foreigners, so that in the time of Louis XIV all of
							them had departed, except a few Dutch on the island of Deshima. From that time on, for
							nearly two hundred years, Japan remained a nation apart, with practically no
							intercourse with foreigners.

						Commodore Perry opens negotiations with the shogun in 1853

						In 1853 Commodore Perry visited Yokohama with a message from the United States
							government to the "Sovereign of Japan," asking that arrangements be made to protect
							the property and persons of Americans wrecked on the coasts, and that the right be
							extended to Americans to dispose of their cargoes at one or more ports.1 Supposing that the shogun was
							the ruler of Japan, Commodore Perry presented his demands to him. These led to a long
							and earnest discussion in the shogun's council, as to whether foreigners should be
							admitted or not, but their demands were finally conceded, and two ports were opened to
							American and English ships.

						Foreigners attacked in the name of the Mikado

						Within the next few years several of the European powers had arranged to trade at the
							ports of Hakodate, Yokohama, 1 See Readings, Vol. II,
									pp. 424 sqq.
							 Nagasaki, and a little later at Kobe. Attacks, however,
							were made upon foreigners in the name of the emperor, who disapproved the shogun's
							action. An Englishman by the name of Richardson was killed in 1862 on the great
							highroad between Yedo and Kyoto, by the retainers of the powerful daimio of Satsuma,
							whereupon the English bombarded Kagoshima, the stronghold of the Satsuma clan.

						Two leading clans become convinced that they have much to learn from
							the western nations

						This produced an extraordinary change of heart in this leading clan, one of the most
							powerful in Japan, for it saw that the foreigners were much more powerful than the
							Japanese, and that Japan would suffer as China had done unless she acquainted herself
							with foreign science and inventions. The next year English ships bombarded
							Shimonoseki, on account of the refusal of its feudal ruler to permit them to pass
							freely through the Inland Sea. This produced an effect similar to the bombardment of
							Kagoshima, and public opinion in Japan gradually changed in favor of the admission of
							foreigners.

						The Mikado orders his people to cease maltreating Europeans,
							1868

						In 1867 the late Mikado, Mutsuhito (d. 1912), then fifteen years of age, ascended the
							throne. In March of the next year, he invited Sir Harry Parkes, a representative of
							Great Britain, as well as the representatives of France and the Netherlands, to Kyoto.
							He was deeply chagrined by an attack made upon the retinue of Sir Harry Parkes and
							publicly declared that any one who committed any deed of violence toward foreigners
							would be acting in opposition to his Majesty's express orders. With this episode the
							period of resistance to the foreigners, their trade and their religion, may be said to
							have closed.

						Revolution in Japan. Disappearance of the shogunate and the
							feudalism

						Meanwhile a great revolution was taking place in Japan; the power of the shogun was
							rapidly declining, and in October, 1867, he was forced to resign his office. This left
							the Mikado not only the nominal but the real ruler of Japan. He emerged from his
							ancient seclusion in the sacred city of Kyoto, and removed the capital to Yedo, which
							was given the new name of Tokyo, or "northern capital." The feudal princes, who had,
							in general, sided with the Mikado against the shogun, now agreed peacefully  to surrender their titles and prerogatives in the
							interests of their country, and in July, 1871, feudalism was formally abolished
							throughout the empire. Serfdom was also done away with and the army and navy reformed
							in accordance with western models.

						The Industrial Revolution in Japan

						Since that date the modernizing of Japan has progressed with incredible rapidity.
							Although the Japanese still continue to carry on their ancient industries, kneeling on
							their straw mats, with a few simple implements and no machinery, western industries
							have been introduced side by side with the older arts. Students were sent abroad to
							investigate the most recent achievements in science, a university was established at
							Tokyo, and the system of education completely revolutionized. There was not a steam
							mill in the islands when Commodore Perry cast anchor there; now there are nearly a
							hundred great cotton factories. Since the railroad between Tokyo and the neighboring
							port of Yokohama was opened in 1872, several thousand miles of railways have been
							constructed, and the Japanese, who are very fond of travel, can go readily from one
							end to the other of their archipelago. Great towns have sprung up. Tokyo has over two
							million inhabitants, and the manufacturing city of Osaka more than a million. The
							total population of the islands is now over fifty-one millions, more than one half
							that of the United States, but crowded into an area of about one hundred and
							seventy-five thousand square miles.

						Constitutional government established in Japan, 1890

						With this industrial progress came inevitably a demand for representative government,
							and as early as 1877 petitions for a constitution were laid before the emperor. Four
							years later he announced that a parliament would be established in 1890, and a
							commission was sent to Europe to study constitutional government there. In 1889 a
							constitution was completed which vested the powers of government in the Mikado and a
							parliament of two houses.1

						1 For
								extracts, see Readings, Vol. II, pp. 431 sqq.
					

					

					
						WAR BETWEEN JAPAN AND CHINA AND ITS RESULTS

						Japan seeks an outlet for her products

						85. After carrying out the various reforms mentioned above, Japan
							found herself confronted, like the western nations, with the necessity of extending
							her trade and securing foreign markets. Her merchants and her ships became the rivals
							of the Europeans in the neighboring seas, where her commerce has increased far more
							rapidly than that of the western nations.

						The Chino-Japanese War over Korea, 1894-1895

						On the opposite side of the Sea of Japan lies Korea, a land which has become well
							known throughout the world on account of the two bloody wars to which the question of
							its possession has given rise. For a long time China and Japan were rival claimants to
							the Korean kingdom. When Japanese trade developed, the question of control in Korea
							became an important one, and in 1894 it led to war between the two countries. But the
							Chinese, with their ancient weapons and organization, were no match for the Japanese,
							who had eagerly adopted every device of western warfare, and in a short time the
							Chinese armies had been driven from Korea and the campaign was transferred to the
							neighboring Manchuria, where the Japanese took Port Arthur. China then called upon the
							western powers for assistance, but they did not take action until Japan, in the Treaty
							of Shimonoseki, had forced China's representative, Li Hung Chang, to recognize the
							complete independence of Korea (which practically meant opening it up to the Japanese)
							and to cede to Japan Port Arthur, the Liaotung peninsula on which it lies, and the
							island of Formosa.

						Russia, France and Germany drive Japan from the mainland

						Russia, France, and Germany had watched the course of events with jealous eyes, and
							now intervened to prevent Japan from securing a foothold on the mainland. Russia was
							the real leader in this intervention, for she coveted just the region which had been
							ceded to Japan. Japan was exhausted by the war with China and at that time had no
							adequate navy. Therefore the Mikado, at the demand of the three powers, withdrew from
							Manchuria.

						

						Russia thereupon gains valuable concessions in China

						The result of this compromise was to throw China into the arms of Russia, which
							proceeded to take every advantage of the situation. China had been forced to pay a
							heavy indemnity to Japan in lieu of the cession of the Liaotung peninsula; and when
							the Chinese government attempted to borrow a large sum from England to meet this
							obligation, Russia interfered and herself loaned China eighty million dollars without
							security. In this way China became dependent upon her as a creditor. The Russians were
							permitted by the Chinese emperor to build a railroad across his territory, which would
							enable them to reach Vladivostok by a direct line from Irkutsk. Moreover, in order to
							guard the railway line, Russian soldiers were to be introduced freely into Manchuria.
							It is clear that these arrangements gave Russia a great advantage over the other
							European powers, since she controlled the Chinese government through its debt and
							occupied Manchuria with her soldiers.

						Germany seizes territory in the Shantung peninsula

						Meanwhile the Germans found an excuse for strengthening themselves in the same
							region. A German missionary having been murdered in the province of Shantung, which
							lies opposite Korea, a German squadron appeared in Kiauchau Bay, in November, 1897,
							landed a force of marines, and raised the German flag. As a compensation for the
							murder of the missionary, Germany demanded a long lease of Kiauchau, with the right to
							build railways in the region and work mines. Since acquiring Kiauchau the Germans have
							built harbors, constructed forts, military barracks, machine shops, etc. In short, a
							model German town has been constructed on the Chinese coast, which, with its defenses,
							constitutes a fine base for further extension of Germany's sphere of influence.

						Russia leases Port Arthur

						At first the Tsar hoped to balk the plans of Germany, but decided, instead, to secure
							additional advantages for himself. Accordingly Port Arthur and the waters adjacent to
							the Liaotung peninsula upon which it lies were leased to Russia, in March, 1898, for a
							period of twenty-five years, subject to renewal by mutual consent. Port Arthur was to
							be open only  to Chinese and Russian vessels, and Russia
							immediately began to build fortifications which were believed to render the town
							impregnable. A railway was constructed to Harbin, connecting Port Arthur with
							Vladivostok and the Trans-Siberian Railway. This at last gave Russia a port on the
							Pacific which, unlike Vladivostok, was free from ice the year round.

						The British lease Weihaiwei and conclude a treaty of alliance with
							Japan

						Great Britain, learning of the negotiations, sent a fleet northward from Hongkong to
							the Gulf of Pechili, and induced China to lease to her Weihaiwei which lay just
							between the recent acquisitions of Germany and Russia. England, morover, believed it
							to be for her interest to be on good terms with Japan, and in 1902 an offensive and
							defensive alliance was concluded between the two powers, binding each to assist the
							other in case a third party joined in a conflict in which either was involved. For
							example, England must, under the provisions, aid Japan in a war with Russia, should
							France or Germany intervene.
					

					

						THE BOXER RISING. THE RUSSO-JAPANESE WAR

						The Europeans begin to develop the natural resources of China

						86. The foreigners were by no means content with establishing
							trading posts in China; they longed to develop the neglected natural resources of the
							empire, to open up communication by railroads and steamships, and to "westernize" the
							Orientals, in order that business might be carried on more easily with them, and new
							opportunities be found for profitable investments.

						Railroads built in China

						The first railroad in China was built by British promoters in 1876, from Shanghai to
							Wu-Sung, a point some fifteen miles to the north of that city. The Chinese, however,
							were horrified by this innovation, which they felt to be a desecration of the graves
							of their ancestors. Yielding to popular prejudice the government purchased the
							railroad, only to destroy it and throw the locomotives into the river. Nevertheless,
							five years later, the Chinese themselves, with the aid of British capital, began the
							construction of an imperial railroad system which now embraces  about six hundred miles. In 1895 other foreigners besides the Russians
							were once more permitted to undertake the construction of railway lines, and there are
							now several thousand miles of road open for traffic. The French and Germans are also
							interested in opening up the regions within their spheres of influence, and the
							British are planning to push into the interior of China a line running northward from
							Rangoon through Mandalay. Thousands of miles of railway are now projected, and
							doubtless within half a century China will be covered with a network of lines which
							cannot fail to do much to revolutionize her ancient habits and civilization.

						Steamships, post, and telegraph

						In 1898 the internal water ways of China were opened to foreign ships. Several lines
							of well-equipped steamships now ply on the Canton River and follow the waters of the
							Yangtze River for a thousand miles inland. Many thousand miles of telegraph lines are
							in operation, affording overland connection with Europe. The post office, organized in
							1897, has branches throughout the republic.

						China befins a great series of reforms

						It was inevitable that intercourse with European nations should affect the whole
							policy and ideals of the Chinese government. In 1889 a decree was issued establishing
							an annual audience in which the emperor might show his "desire to treat with honor all
							the foreign ministers resident in Peking." A few years later the cumbersome ancient
							ceremonial was abolished and foreigners were received in a manner which indicated the
							recognition of their equality with Chinese of the same rank. In 1898, when Prince
							Henry of Prussia visited Peking, he was cordially greeted by the emperor, who shook
							hands with him in western fashion and conversed with him on a familiar footing.

						In the same year a series of decrees was issued with the object of reforming the army
							on models offered by those nations that had given so many proofs of their military
							superiority. New schools and colleges were planned with a view of starting the country
							on the road to progress. Chinese students were sent to Europe to study foreign methods
							of government, agricultural  schools were built, patent
							and copyright laws were introduced, and a department of mines and railroads was
							established, in order that China might no longer be obliged to leave these matters
							entirely in the hands of foreigners. Journalists were even encouraged to write on
							political questions.

						The conservatives oppose reforms in China

						These abrupt reforms aroused the superstitious horror of the conservative party. They
							found a sympathetic leader in the Dowager Empress, who had been regent during the
							early years of the emperor's reign. She succeeded in regaining her influence and in
							putting an end, for the time being, to the distasteful reforms. The Europeans, both
							missionaries and business men, nevertheless continued their activities, and the
							conservatives believed it necessary, therefore, to organize a great movement to drive
							out the "foreign devils," who had been, in their eyes, steadily undermining the
							ancient traditions of China.

						The "Boxers"

						Among those hostile to the foreigner none were more conspicuous than the secret
							society of the "Boxers," or, as they appear to have called themselves, the "Order of
							the Patriotic Harmonious Fists." They were quite willing to coöperate with the Dowager
							Empress in carrying out her designs against foreign influence. They proclaimed that
							the western nations were "lacerating China like tigers"; and summoned every patriotic
							Chinaman to rise in defense of his country.

						The Peking insurrection of 1900

						The party in favor of meeting the "Christian Peril" by violence rapidly increased.
							The Boxers, who were arming and drilling, knew very well that neither the Chinese
							officials nor the imperial troops would interfere with them. Missionaries and traders
							were murdered in the provinces, and although the government at Peking always declared
							that it was doing all it could to suppress disorder, the representatives of foreign
							nations in the capital became thoroughly alarmed. On June 20, 1900, the Boxers,
							supported by the troops, killed the German ambassador, Baron von Ketteler, while on
							his way to the palace to expostulate with the government. The Europeans were then
							besieged in the several legations and in the Catholic cathedral,  but, for some reason which is not clear, the Chinese did not murder them
							all, as they might easily have done.1

						The powers intervene and settle affairs in China

						The powers determined upon immediate intervention, and in August a relief expedition,
							made up of Japanese, Russian, British, American, French, and German troops, fought its
							way from Tientsin to Peking, and brought relief to the imprisoned foreigners. The
							Chinese court left Peking, and the royal palace was desecrated and pillaged by the
							European troops, whose scandalous conduct disgraced the western world. Negotiations
							were now opened, and the aged Li Hung Chang rendered his last services by concluding
							an agreement in which China made certain reparations, including the payment of an
							indemnity of three hundred and twenty million dollars, and promised to repress all
							anti-foreign societies.

						The Chinese reform movement renewed

						Although the Dowager Empress still retained her power, the work of reform was again
							undertaken. The work of reorganizing the army was renewed, and students were again
							sent abroad in large numbers to investigate western methods of industry and
							government. By one of the most momentous decrees in the intellectual history of the
							world, the ancient classical system of education, which had for centuries been deemed
							an essential preparation for public office, was abolished in 1905.2 Students preparing for the government service
							are no longer examined upon Confucius and asked to write essays on such subjects as
							"How the moonlight sleeps on the lake"; for the new examination questions deal with
							the history of the West, with Metternich and Bismarck, and with such grave questions
							as the relation of capital to labor and the methods of stimulating modern industry.
							Even the Dowager Empress was obliged to yield to the progressive party, and in
							September, 1906, she went so far as to announce that China should prepare herself for
							the introduction of representative government and of a parliament.3

						1 For an account of the
							Boxer rising, see Readings, Vol. II, pp. 436 sqq.

						2 See Readings, Vol. II, pp. 441 sqq.

						3 For the revolution of
							1911-1912 in China, see below, p. 518.

						

						Russo-Japanese rivalry in Korea and Manchuria leads to war, February,
							1904

						Scarcely had the troubles due to the Boxer rising been adjusted when a new war cloud
							appeared in the East. The interest of Japan in finding markets has already been
							mentioned. The occupation of Manchuria and Port Arthur by the Russians seriously
							threatened Japanese extension in that direction; and when Russia secured from Korea a
							lumber cession in the Yalu valley and sent Cossacks to build forts in that region,
							Japan, which regarded Korea as lying within her sphere of influence, could hardly fail
							to protest. Russia had agreed repeatedly to withdraw from Manchuria, but had always
							failed to keep her promises when the time came. She had, moreover, guaranteed the
							integrity of Korea, upon whose territory she was now encroaching. Accordingly, in the
							summer of 1903, Japan opened negotiations with the Tsar's government with the object
							of inducing it to explain its purposes in Manchuria and Korea. Russia delayed and
							refused to commit herself. The Japanese, determined to have Korea for themselves,
							broke off diplomatic relations on February 5, 1904, and opened hostilities.

						Japan far better prepared for war than Russia

						Japan was well prepared for war and was, moreover, within easy reach of the field of
							conflict. The Russian government, on the contrary, was rotten to the core and was
							already engaged in a terrible struggle with the Russian nation.1 The eastern boundary of European Russia lay
							three thousand miles from Port Arthur and the Yalu River, and the only means of
							communication was the single line of badly constructed railroad that stretched across
							Siberia to the Pacific.

						Early reverses of the Russians on the seas
						Siege of Port Arthur

						Three days after the war opened the Japanese fleet surprised the Russian battle ships
							lying off Port Arthur, sank four of them, and drove the rest into the harbor, where
							they succeeded, in the main, in keeping them "bottled up." A second fleet which had
							been stationed at Vladivostok was defeated early in May, thus giving Japan control of
							the seas. At the same time the Russians were driven back from the Yalu, and the
							Japanese under General Oku landed on the Liaotung peninsula, cut 1 See above, pp.
										447
									sqq.
							 off Port Arthur from communication with Russia, and
							captured the town of Dalny, which they made their naval headquarters. General Oku then
							began pushing the Russians northward toward Mukden, while General Nogi was left to
							besiege Port Arthur. For months the world watched in suspense the heroic attacks which
							the Japanese, at deadly cost to themselves, made upon the Russian fortress. Meanwhile
							fighting continued to the north along the line of the railroad. In October the
							Japanese were victorious in a fearful battle which raged south of Mukden for days,
							thus putting an end to General Kuropatkin's designs for relieving Port Arthur. As
							winter came on, the Japanese redoubled their efforts and the fortress at last
							surrendered, on January 1, 1905, after a siege of seven months, the horrors of which
							are perhaps without a parallel.

						Mukden captured by the Japanese, March, 1905

						The conduct of the war on the part of the Japanese affords one of the most
							extraordinary examples on record of military organization and efficiency. By means of
							an ingenious system of telephones they kept every division of the army in direct
							communication with the war office in Tokyo, and by the strictest discipline they
							checked disease and contagion in the hospitals. The Russian sanitary service was also
							of high order, as compared with previous wars. Late in February fighting again began,
							and for three weeks the Russians struggled against the combined Japanese armies; but
							on March 9 they deserted Mukden and moved northward, after forty thousand of them had
							been killed and over a hundred thousand wounded.

						Togo destroys the Russian fleet in the Straits of Korea, May 27,
							1905

						On learning of the destruction of the fleets in the Pacific the Russian government
							determined to dispatch its Baltic squadron to the Orient. After some strange
							adventures, which aroused both the amusement and the disgust of those who were
							following the war,1 the fleet
							arrived in May in the Straits of Korea, where Admiral Togo was waiting for it. In a
							few hours he sank 1 As
								the squadron was passing through the North Sea the Russians fired upon a fishing
								fleet off Dogger Bank, and alleged later that they mistook the poor fishermen for
								Japanese. This is but one of numerous examples of the incompetence which was shown
								by the Russians throughout the war.
							 twenty-two of the Russian vessels and captured six. The
							Tsar's fleet was practically annihilated, with terrible loss of life, while the
							Japanese came out of the conflict almost unscathed.1

						The Treaty of Portsmouth, 1905

						Lest the war should drag on indefinitely, President Roosevelt, acting under the
							provisions of the Hague Convention,2 took measures which brought about a peace. After consulting the
							representatives of Japan and Russia at Washington and ascertaining the attitude of the
							neutral powers, he dispatched notes to the Tsar and Mikado, urging them to open
								negotiations.3 This
							invitation was accepted, and on August 9 the first session of the conference was held
							at Portsmouth, New Hampshire. On September 5 the Treaty of Portsmouth was signed. This
							recognized the Japanese influence as paramount in Korea, which, however, was to remain
								independent.4 Both the
							Japanese and Russians were to evacuate Manchuria; the Japanese were, however, given
							the rights in the Liaotung peninsula and Port Arthur which Russia had formerly
							enjoyed. Lastly, the southern part of the Russian island of Sakhalin was ceded to
							Japan.

						No final settlement yet reached in the Far East

						Thus this great conflict produced by the friction of the powers in the East was
							brought to an end, but there seems to be no hope that similar wars can be avoided in
							the future, for it would appear that the process of "opening up" China is bound to
							continue at an ever-increasing rate, with manifold possibilities of rivalry and
							violence. England and Japan, it is true, have renewed their treaty of alliance and
							announced their intention to maintain peace and the "open door," that is, the right of
							all nations to participate in trade with China. But even if the European powers can
							agree among themselves, China may develop a strong and efficient government and a
							highly 1 For Admiral
								Togo's account of the battle, see Readings, Vol. II, pp. 445 sq.
							2 See below, p. 503.
							3 See Readings, Vol. II, p. 447.
							4 The Japanese have not
								left Korea independent. They immediately took control of the administration, and in
								the summer of 1907 forced the Korean emperor most unwillingly to abdicate. Finally
								by the treaty of August 23, 1910, Korea was annexed to the Japanese empire and named
								"Chosen."
							 disciplined army, and may undertake with more and more
							success to resist the continued encroachments of those who have established themselves
							on her borders.
					

					

						OCCUPATION OF AFRICA BY THE
								EUROPEAN POWERS

						The ancients knew little of the main body of the African
							continent

						87. The vast continent of Africa, the northeastern corner of which
							was the seat of perhaps the first highly civilized people, was the last of the great
							divisions of the earth's surface to be explored and appropriated by the European
							nations. The lower valley of the Nile and the coasts which bound the Mediterranean on
							the south were well known to the ancients, and were included in the Roman Empire, but
							the upper reaches of that great river and the main body of the continent to the south
							of the Desert of Sahara, were practically unknown to them, and they had no suspicions
							that the land extended for five thousand miles to the south of Carthage.

						How the Mohammedans conquered northern Africa

						Shortly after the death of Mohammed in 632, his followers began the conquest of Egypt
							and northern Africa, and in less than a hundred years they had subdued all the region
							which had formerly been ruled from Rome. From Cape Guardafui on the extreme east, to
							Cape Verde, lying on the Atlantic, nearly five thousand miles to the west, they
							introduced their civilization and religion, so that to-day in the towns of Tunis and
							Morocco one sees many things to remind him of the conditions in Palestine or Arabia.,
							The Mohammedans built up a flourishing trade with the interior; they traversed the
							deserts and opened caravan routes through the sandy wastes; they pushed their trading
							settlements down the east coast as far as a point opposite Madagascar; they made maps
							of that portion of the continent with which they had become familiar, and described
							its climate and appearance. The knowledge which the Mohammedans had acquired naturally
							spread into Spain, which long formed a part of their dominions, and it appears
							probable that the Portuguese, who began to explore the west coast of Africa in the
							fifteenth  century, also received such information as
							they possessed from the Moors.

						Slow advance of the Europeans in Africa

						Europe was, however, a long time taking advantage of such knowledge of Africa as it
							secured through the Mohammedans. Although the Portuguese rounded the Cape of Good Hope
							in 1486, they found traffic in the East Indies too profitable to warrant their
							spending any time exploring and settling the uninviting interior of Africa. The most
							important trade which sprang up with that continent was the slave traffic, which was
							soon undertaken by the English, whose enterprising slavers made enormous fortunes at
							that cruel business. The Europeans generally were too busy settling the more inviting
							portions of the New World to undertake serious colonization in Africa. The Dutch post,
							established at the Cape of Good Hope in 1652, did not prove to be very successful and
							had only a population of ten thousand at the opening of the nineteenth century. The
							French station, St. Louis, founded at the mouth of the Senegal River in the
							seventeenth century, was nothing more than a trading station; but it was destined to
							become important in the nineteenth century as a basis for the extension of French
							power in northwest Africa.

						The situation in 1815

						No serious attempts had been made by any of the European powers to colonize any
							portion of Africa before the close of the Napoleonic wars in 1815. Indeed, the
							suppression of the slave trade had discouraged further activity for a time,1 for this traffic had been more
							profitable than the combined trade in gold, ivory, gum, and other African
							commodities.

						The situation in 1815 may be summed up as follows: In northern Africa the Sultan of
							Turkey was the nominal suzerain of Egypt and the so-called Barbary States, that is,
							Tripoli, Tunis, and Algeria. Morocco was, however, an independent state, as it still
							is nominally, under the Sultan of Morocco. France maintained her foothold at the mouth
							of the Senegal; the most important Portuguese possessions were in Lower Guinea and
								1 See
									above, p. 234.
							
							
							 
							
							 on the east coast opposite the island of Madagascar;
							the British held some minor posts along the west coast, and had wrested Cape Colony
							from the Dutch during the Napoleonic wars. The heart of Africa was still unknown; no
							European power contemplated laying claim to the arid waste of the Sahara Desert, and
							the more attractive regions of the upper Nile were ruled by semicivilized Mohammedan
							chiefs.

						Advance of France and England in Africa during the first half of the
							nineteenth century

						For fifty years after the Congress of Vienna the advance of European powers in Africa
							was very slow indeed. England and France were, it is true, gradually extending their
							spheres of influence, and explorers were tracing the rivers and mountain chains of the
							interior. France, as has been explained, conquered Algiers during this period,1 and formally annexed it in 1848.
							The Dutch Boers, disgusted with English rule, had migrated to the north, and laid the
							foundations of the Transvaal and Orange River colonies.2

						Explorations of Livingstone and others

						The latter half of the nineteenth century was, however, a time of active exploration
							in Africa. It is impossible here even to name all those adventurers who braved the
							torrid heat and fevers and the danger from savages and wild beasts. Under the auspices
							of the Royal Geographical Society of England a search was begun for the mysterious
							sources of the Nile, and a lake lying just south of the equator was discovered in 1858
							and named Victoria Nyanza. In 1864 Sir Samuel Baker discovered another lake, Albert
							Nyanza, to the northwest, and explored its connections with the Nile River.
							Livingstone had visited Bechuanaland twenty years before, and pushed up the valley of
							the Zambesi River, tracing it nearly to its source. In 1866 he explored the regions
							about the lakes of Nyassa and Tanganyika, and reached a point on the upper Congo. This
							expedition attracted general attention throughout the civilized world. His long
							absence roused the fear that he was, perhaps, the prisoner of some savage tribe, and
							on his return to Lake Tanganyika he was met by Henry Stanley, another explorer, who
							had been sent 1 See
								above, p. 377.
							2 See
									above, pp. 425sqq.
							 out by the New York Herald to search
							for him.1 Livingstone, who was
							both missionary and explorer, continued his work until his death in 1873.

						Stanley's discoveries

						Two years later Lieutenant Cameron, at the head of an English expedition which had
							also been organized with the hope of finding Livingstone, on learning of his death
							started from Zanzibar on the Indian Ocean and struggled through the heart of Africa,
							until he caught sight of the Atlantic Ocean at Benguela, south of the Congo River. The
							same year Stanley set out upon an expedition which is regarded as the most important
							in the annals of African exploration. After visiting Lakes Victoria Nyanza and
							Tanganyika, he journeyed across the country to the river Lualaba, and followed its
							course until he proved that it was only the headwaters of the Congo, down which he
							found his way to the Atlantic. Meanwhile other explorers, French and German, as well
							as English, were constantly adding to the knowledge of a hitherto unknown
							continent.

						Rapid partition of Africa

						Stanley's famous journey through the heart of "Darkest Africa" naturally aroused the
							intense interest of all the European powers, and within ten years after his triumphant
							return to Marseilles in 1878, the entire surface of Africa had been divided up among
							the powers, or marked out into "spheres of influence." A generation ago a map of
							Africa was for the most part indefinite and conjectural, except along the coast.
							To-day its natural features have been largely determined, and it is traversed by
							boundary lines almost as carefully drawn as those which separate the various European
							countries. The manner in which the English, French, and Germans have asserted their
							claims in Africa has been briefly explained in preceding chapters.

						French possessions

						The whole of the northwestern shoulder of the continent, from the mouth of the Congo
							to Tunis, belongs, with some exceptions, to France. It must be remembered, however,
							that a very considerable portion of the French claim is nothing but a desert, totally
							useless in its present state. On the east coast 1 For Stanley's account of the meeting, see
									Readings, Vol. II, pp. 449 sqq.
							Expansion of Europe in the Nineteenth Century 495 of
							Africa France controls French Somaliland, and her port of Jibuti, which lies at the
							mouth of the Red Sea, gives her somewhat the same advantages that Aden affords the
							English. The French also hold the island of Madagascar.

						German possessions

						Between 1884 and 1890 Germany acquired four considerable areas of African territory,
							which include together nearly a million square miles: Togoland, Kamerun, German South-
							west Africa, and German East Africa. The Germans have made heroic efforts to develop
							these regions by building railways and schools, and expending enormous sums in other
							ways, but the wars with the natives and the slight commerce which has been
							established, leave the experiment one of doubtful value.

						The "Belgian Congo"

						Wedged in between German East Africa and the French Congo is the vast Belgian Congo,
							the history of which began with a conference held in Brussels in 1876 under the
							auspices of the king of Belgium. Representatives of most of the European countries
							were invited to attend, with a view to considering the best methods of opening up the
							region and of stopping the slave trade which was carried on by the Mohammedans in the
							interior. The result was the organization of an international African Association with
							its center at Brussels. The enterprise was, however, in reality the personal affair of
							King Leopold, who supplied from his own purse a large portion of the funds which were
							used by Stanley in exploring the Congo basin, establishing posts, and negotiating
							hundreds of treaties with the petty native chiefs.

						The Berlin conference on the Congo territory

						The activity of the African Association aroused the apprehensions of the European
							powers interested in Africa, especially England and Portugal, and a congress was
							called at Berlin to consider the situation. This met in November, 1884, and every
							European state except Switzerland sent delegates, as did the United States. The
							congress recognized the right of the African Association to the vast expanse drained
							by the Congo River, and declared the new territory a neutral state, the Congo Free
							State, open to the trade of all nations.

						

						The following year King Leopold announced to the world that he had assumed
							sovereignty over the Congo Free State, and that he proposed to unite it in a personal
							union with Belgium. He gradually filled the government offices with Belgians and
							established customs lines with a view to raising revenue.

						Alleged cruel treatment of the natives in the Congo Free State

						During the opening years of the twentieth century the Belgians were charged with
							practicing atrocious cruelties on the natives.1 There is reason to think that the hideous reports
							published in the newspapers were much exaggerated, but there is little doubt that the
							natives, as commonly happens in such cases, have suffered seriously at the hands of
							the European invader. King Leopold claimed ownership over the vacant land, and in this
							way roused the hatred of the peoples who have been used to roaming freely in every
							direction. By a system of "apprenticeship" many of the blacks have been reduced to the
							condition of slaves. Labor is hard to secure, for the natives are accustomed to a free
							life in the jungle, and do not relish driving spikes on railways or draining swamps
							for Belgian capitalists. The government therefore required native chiefs to furnish a
							certain number of workmen, and on their failure to supply the demand it has been
							customary to burn their villages. The government also required the natives to furnish
							a certain quantity of rubber each year; failure to comply with these demands has also
							brought summary punishment upon them.

						The British government took care to report the conduct of the Belgian officials to
							the world, and it aroused loud protests in Europe and America; but those who know most
							about African conditions suspect that the English had a selfish interest in
							exaggerating the horrors of the situation, with the hope of ultimately extending their
							own control over the Congo regions. King Leopold and his agents stoutly maintained
							that they had been misrepresented, and claimed that their rubber business 1 See Readings, Vol. II, pp. 453 sq.
							 did not kill so many natives as the whisky, which is
							such an important source of revenue to other nations, especially Great Britain. These
							alleged exposures led the Belgian ministry to take up the question of the Congo, and
							at length, in 1908, the government assumed complete ownership of the Free State, which
							then took the name of the Belgian Congo.

						African sessions of Portugal, Italy ad Spain

						The Portuguese still control remnants of the possessions to which they laid claim
							when South Africa was first brought to the attention of Europe, namely, Guinea,
							Angola, and East Africa. Italy has the colony of Eritrea on the coast of the Red Sea,
							and Italian Somaliland to the south of Cape Guardafui, and is attempting (in 1912) to
							wrest Tripoli from Turkey.1
							Spain's two colonies, one on the Straits of Gibraltar, the other on the Gulf of
							Guinea, only serve to remind her of the vast colonial empire which she has lost.

						Morocco

						Morocco still remains nominally independent of European powers, but is an object of
							contention among them. Its population, which is a curious mixture of Berbers, Tuaregs,
							Arabs, and negroes, has not materially changed its civilization during the past
							thousand years. The fierce tribesmen often defy the rule of their Sultan at Fez. A
							bandit leader, Raisuli, seized an English envoy to the Sultan, Sir Harry McLean,
							during the summer of 1907 and held him a prisoner for several months. This is but one
							of many instances which illustrate the inability of the Sultan of Morocco to control
							his subjects and protect foreigners.

						The conference at Algeciras

						Europeans, especially the French, have, in spite of many difficulties, gradually been
							developing relations with Morocco. They carry on a trade in almonds, gum, and the
							famous Moroccan goatskin, and have also lent money to the Sultan. The necessity of
							coming to an agreement in regard to their dealings with Morocco led to a conference of
							the powers at Algeciras, Spain (just across the bay from Gibraltar) in 1906. Their
							representatives agreed on the formation of a police force 1 See below, p. 532.
							 under French and Spanish officers, and the organization
							of a state bank, which should be controlled by the powers.1

						Mehemet Ali establishes himself and his successors as rulers of
							Egypt

						In order to complete our survey of Africa, it is necessary to consider the singular
							circumstances which have served to bring Egypt under the control of the British. This
							ancient center of civilization had, as we have seen, been conquered by the Arabs in
							the seventh century. Eight hundred years later it was overrun by the Ottoman Turks,
							and in 1517 was organized as a province of the Turkish Empire. With the decline of the
							Sultan's power the country fell under the domination of the Beys, the leaders of a
							curious military band known as the Mamelukes; and it was against these that Bonaparte
							fought in 1798. Shortly after Nelson and the English had frustrated Bonaparte's
							attempt to bring Egypt under French rule, a military adventurer from Albania, Mehemet
							Ali, compelled the Sultan to recognize him as governor of Egypt in 1805. A few years
							later he brought about a massacre of the Mamelukes and began a series of reforms. He
							created an army and a fleet, and not only brought all Egypt under his sway, but
							established himself at Khartum where he could control the Sudan,2 or region of the upper Nile. Before his death
							in 1849 he had induced the Sultan to recognize his heirs as rightful rulers of
							Egypt.

						The Khedive Ismail I (1863-1879) becomes hopelessly involved in
							debt

						The importance of Egypt for the western powers was greatly increased by the
							construction of the Suez Canal begun in 1859,3 for both Port Said on the Mediterranean and Suez on the
							Red Sea are Egyptian ports. The English were able to get a foothold in Egypt through
							the improvidence of the Egyptian ruler, Ismail I, who came to the throne in 1863, and
							by reckless extravagance involved his country in a heavy debt which forced him to sell
							a block of his canal shares to the British government at a low price. The sacrifice of
							these canal shares 1 For
								recent events see below, p. 531.
							2 The term Sudan (see
								map) was applied by the Mohammedans to the whole region south of the Sahara Desert,
								but as now used it commonly means Anglo-Egyptian Sudan only.
							3 See above, p. 468.
							 brought no appreciable relief, and Ismail's creditors
							in England and France prevailed upon their governments to interfere in their behalf.
							This foreign intervention aroused discontent in Egypt, and the natives revolted in
							1882, demanding "Egypt for the Egyptians." Inasmuch as France declined to join in
							suppressing the rebellion, England undertook it alone, and after putting down the
							uprising assumed a temporary occupation of the country and the supervision of the army
							and finances of Egypt. Since the rebellion of 1882 the British have continued their
							"temporary" occupation, which amounts practically to the government of the
							country.

						The Mahdi and the death of Gordon

						Shortly after the British conquest of Egypt, trouble arose in the Sudan, where a
							revolt against the Khedive's1
							government was organized under the leadership of Mohammed Ahmed, who claimed to be the
							Messiah, and found great numbers of fanatical followers who called him El Mahdi, "the
								leader."2 General Gordon was
							in charge of the British garrison at Khartum. Here he was besieged by the followers of
							the Mahdi in 1885, and after a memorable defense fell a victim to their fury, thus
							adding a tragic page to the military history of the British empire. This disaster was
							avenged twelve years later, when in 1897-1898 the Sudan was reconquered and the city
							of Khartum was taken by the British under General Kitchener.

						Results of the English occupation in Egypt

						During the occupation of Egypt by the English the progress of the country has been
							unquestioned; industry and commerce are growing steadily, public works have been
							constructed, and financial order has been reestablished under the supervision of the
							English agent, whose word is law. There is no reason to think that the present
							protectorate will not last indefinitely, and it may sometime be transformed into the
							avowed annexation of Egypt by Great Britain.

						Decline of Spain as a colonial power

						In striking contrast to the other powers of Europe-- Great Britain, France, Germany,
							and even Italy-- stands Spain, who 1 This title was assumed by the ruler of Egypt with the consent
								of the Sultan.
							2 See Readings, Vol. II, pp. 456 sqq.
							 could once boast that the sun never set on her empire.
							After losing her colonies on the American continents she made no compensating gains in
							other parts of the world, and at the close of the nineteenth century received the
							final blow in a war with the United States.

						The Spanish-American War, 1898

						The cause of this war was the chronic disturbance which existed in Cuba under Spanish
							government and which led the United States to decide upon the expulsion of Spain from
							the western hemisphere. In 1895 the last of many Cuban insurrections against Spain
							broke out, and sympathy was immediately manifested in the United States. Both
							political parties during the presidential campaign of 1896 declared in favor of the
							Cubans, and with the inauguration of McKinley a policy of intervention was adopted.
							The American government demanded the recall of General Weyler-- whose cruelty had
							become notorious-- and a reform in the treatment of prisoners of war. In February,
							1898, the battle ship Maine was mysteriously blown up in the harbor
							of Havana, where it had been sent in American interests. Although the cause of this
							disaster could not be discovered, the United States, maintaining that the conditions
							in Cuba were intolerable, declared war on Spain in April.

						Spain loses her remaining colonies

						The war was brief, for the American forces were everywhere victorious. Cuba and Porto
							Rico were lost to Spain, and by the capture of the city of Manila in May, the
							Philippine Islands also fell to the United States. Peace was reëstablished in August,
							and representatives were shortly sent to Paris to arrange the final terms. Cuba was
							declared independent; Porto Rico, with the adjoining islands of Vieques and Culebra,
							and the Philippines were ceded to the United States.1 The following year the Caroline and Pelew islands were
							transferred to Germany, and thus the territory of Spain was reduced to the Spanish
							peninsula, the Balearic and Canary islands, and her small holdings in Africa.

						1 Spain also ceded to the
							United States the island of Guam in the Ladrone Archipelago.

						
						
							THE GREATEST GENERAL OF ALL
						
					

					
					

					

						INFLUENCES FAVORING UNIVERSAL PEACE

						Necessity of great armies and navies

						88. In winning and holding world-wide empires the countries of
							Europe have been compelled to maintain large military and naval forces in addition to
							those necessary for actual national defense. Colonies and protectorates inhabited by
							subject races require the presence of European soldiers, and the protection of
							merchant vessels on the high seas and in foreign ports demands large navies.
							Consequently imperial ambitions and patriotic pride have led to a steady increase in
							the armies and navies of Europe.

						Enhanced cost of military establishments due to new inventions

						The cost of maintaining these enormous military establishments is greatly enhanced by
							the continued invention of new and ever more formidable instruments of destruction,
							which speedily render old equipment obsolete and compel every country to keep abreast
							of the nation most advanced in the science of warfare. The old flintlock rifle loaded
							at the muzzle gave way to the minie rifle charged with a cartridge and fired by a
							percussion cap; the minie rifle was in turn supplanted by the breechloader; then came
							the rapid-fire repeating rifle, with a range of a mile. The ancient muzzle-loading
							cannon, with its short and uncertain range, has been gradually improved, and in its
							place we now have the enormous breech-loading Krupp guns, carrying balls weighing five
							hundred pounds for ten miles or more with wonderful accuracy. New explosives of
							terrible power-- nitroglycerin, melinite, and lyddite-- make gunpowder seem like a
							child's plaything; and smokeless powder, by keeping the field clear, makes range
							finding more deadly than ever. Moreover new instruments, such as the war balloon,
							armored trains, automobiles, wireless telegraphy, and search lights, greatly
							facilitate military operations.

						Revolution in maritime warfare

						Sea fighting has undergone a revolution no less complete and rapid. Within fifty
							years the wooden man of war has disappeared before armored vessels, which are rapidly
							developing in speed, tonnage, and fighting capacity. Even the battle ship of fifteen
							years ago is giving way before vessels of the Dreadnought type.  The ineffectiveness of the ordinary cannon against the
							steel battle ship has led to the use of torpedoes of terrible explosive power, and
							these in turn to the invention of torpedo destroyers. The new and dangerous factor of
							the submarine mine has been added, while the submarine vessel may soon considerably
							modify the present mode of naval warfare. And the aëroplane promises a complete
							revolution in war on land.

						Huge modern standing armies

						Indeed, there seems to be no end to the rivalry of nations in the invention of costly
							instruments of war. Millions and billions have been expended in ships and guns which
							have become obsolete without ever being brought into action. France to-day, in time of
							peace, has an army of over seven hundred thousand men and spends over two hundred
							million dollars annually for war purposes,-- an establishment which rivals that
							maintained by Napoleon when at war with all Europe. Germany also supports a standing
							army of over six hundred thousand men. England spends over three hundred and fifty
							million dollars a year for the army and navy -more than twice as much as for
							education.

						How the preparations for war may favor peace

						Nevertheless, it may be said that this marvelous military development has contributed
							something to the movement toward peace in Europe. The enormous number of men that
							would speedily be called into action and hurried to the front in express trains, the
							countless millions that a general European war with these costly instruments would
							involve, the terrible loss of life and property that it would bring-- all this has
							tended to make statesmen shrink from risking the possibilities of war. Moreover the
							cost of maintaining armies on even a peace footing is so great, the strong protest of
							workingmen and socialists against warfare-- anti-militarism as it is called-- is so
							determined, the financial interests involved are so influential, and the effects of
							international conflicts on industry and trade are so disastrous, that a movement for
							the peaceful settlement of international disputes and the reduction of armaments has
							developed in every civilized nation.

						

						The Tsar calls a peace conference in 1898

						For centuries humanitarians have protested against war and the cost of military
							establishments. William Penn drew up a scheme "For the establishment of an European
							Dyet, Parliament or Estates"; and the French philosophers of the eighteenth century
							made eloquent pleas for universal peace. But it was left to the present Tsar, Nicholas
							II, to propose in 1898 a great conference of the powers at The Hague to discuss the
							subject of reducing the excessive armaments.1 Unlike the Congress of Vienna or Berlin, this Peace
							Conference of 1899 did not meet to bring a war to a close; it came together in a time
							of European peace to consider how the existing peace might be maintained and military
							expenditures reduced.

						The results of the first Peace Conference at The Hague in 1899
						Disarmament
						Mediation
						Commissions of Inquiry

						The Hague Conference did nothing, however, toward diminishing the armaments of the
							powers beyond expressing an opinion that a restriction of the present military burden
							was extremely desirable, and recommending the nations to "examine the possibility of
							an agreement as to the limitation of armed forces by land and sea." The powers,
							however, agreed to recognize the right of any nation to offer its services to
							countries at war with one another for the purpose of mediation. They further
							recommended parties unable to come to agreement by negotiation to submit matters
							"involving neither honor nor vital interests" to the investigation of an impartial
							International Commission of Inquiry, to be constituted for each case by an arrangement
							between the parties to the controversy.

						The Permanent Court of Arbitration

						Finally, the powers agreed upon the establishment of a Permanent Court of Arbitration
							to which disputants could submit issues on which they were at variance. This great
							court consists of persons (not more than four from each country) selected by the
							respective nations from among their citizens "of recognized competence in
							international law, enjoying the highest moral reputation, and disposed to accept the
							duties of arbitrators." From this long list of eminent personages any powers engaged
								1 For the Tsar's
								rescript calling the conference, see Readings, Vol. II, pp. 463
									sqq.
							 in a controversy may choose a number to form a tribunal
							for their special case. The close of the first Hague Conference was shortly followed
							by a large number of treaties between the powers of the world, agreeing to submit to
							arbitration all questions "which affect neither the national independence nor honor,"
							but it was generally admitted that the conference had done little or nothing toward
							providing a way to settle those vital issues which actually give rise to great
							wars.

						The second Hague Conference, 1907

						Nevertheless, the outcome of the experiment encouraged the friends of international
							peace to believe that more practical agreements might be reached which would mitigate,
							if not prevent, the evils of war. Accordingly, in 1904, President Roosevelt proposed a
							second conference, but yielded the honor of issuing the call to Nicholas II, who the
							following year again sent invitations to over fifty nations to participate in the
							consideration of certain important questions, including the peaceful settlement of
							international disputes and the regulation of warfare on land and sea. The conference
							opened at The Hague on June 15, 1907, with the representatives of forty-seven states
							in attendance, and adjourned on October 18.1 The proposal of the United States for a permanent
							international court to which certain matters must be referred was defeated. The
							pressing question of disarmament was dismissed by a resolution declaring "It is highly
							desirable that the governments should resume the serious study of the question of
							limiting armaments." In fact, the conference confined its attention to drawing up
							treaties regulating the actual conduct of war, the laying of submarine mines, the
							treatment of prisoners, the bombardment of towns, and the rights of neutrals in time
							of war. In other words, no steps were taken to reduce military and naval expenses or
							to advance compulsory arbitration, but a serious effort was made to obtain more
							general agreement on the rules of war itself.

						1 See Readings, Vol. II, pp. 465 sq.
					

					
					
						REFERENCES
								Development of the Modern Railway System: THURSTON, A History of the Growth of the Steam Engine,
									pp. 144-220.
								Development of Steam Navigation: THURSTON, pp. 221-302.
								The Commercial Basis of Imperialism: Extract from HOBSON, Imperialism, in BEARD, Introduction to the English Historians, pp. 623-636;
									REINSCH, World Politics, pp. 3-80.
								The Opening of China: DOUGLAS, Europe and the Far East, pp. 41-90; REINSCH,
									pp. 85-195; HAZEN, Europe since 1815, pp.
									682-687.
								Development of Chinese Industries: DOUGLAS, pp. 256-284.
								The Opening of Japan: DOUGLAS, pp.
									144-168; HAZEN, pp. 687-695.
								The Revolution in Japan: DOUGLAS, pp.
									169-209.
								The Chino-Japanese War and Intervention by the Powers : DOUGLAS, pp. 304-322; HAZEN, pp.
									695-699.
								The Boxer Movement in China and its Repression: DOUGLAS, pp. 323-360.
								Causes of the Russo-Japanese Conflict: DOUGLAS, pp. 409-424; ASAKAWA, The
										Russo-Japanese Conflict, pp. 1-64; HAZEN, pp.
									699-705.
								Britain in Egypt and the Sudan: ROSE, The Development of the European Nations, Vol. II, pp.
									143-227.
								The Partition of Africa: ROSE, Vol. II,
									pp. 228-268; HAZEN, pp. 550-554.
								The Congo Free State: ROSE, Vol. II, pp.
									269-298; HAZEN, pp. 554-557.
						Egypt: HAZEN, pp. 557-563.
								International Arbitration: FOSTER, Arbitration and the Hague Court.
					
				

				
					

					CHAPTER XXIV
						THE LAST DECADE OF EUROPEAN POLITICS

					

						POLITICAL REFORMS

						A general survey

						89. The opening years of the twentieth century have witnessed a
							steady increase in popular control over the aristocratic and royal branches of
							Old-World governments. The House of Lords in England has been forced to admit that the
							final word in lawmaking rests with the House of Commons; the monarchy has been
							overthrown in Portugal; some steps have been taken in Germany toward the establishment
							of ministerial responsibility; Turkey has a constitution and a parliament; Persia has
							experimented with representative government; China having overturned the imperial
							administration has founded a republic.

						These political changes have been accompanied by an increasing interest in
							international peace and social reform. The tremendous burdens of maintaining standing
							armies and building huge navies are no longer borne in silence by taxpayers and
							workingmen. The improvement of the condition of the people is the watchword of
							European ministries. Socialistic parties grow with astounding rapidity, and
							socialistic ideas are no longer confined to a small and discontented minority.

						England long conservative

						At the close of the nineteenth century England was, to all appearances, as
							conservative as any nation in western Europe. The enthusiasm for the extension of the
							suffrage and for the reform of ancient abuses, which had stirred the country for a
							hundred years, seemed to have died away. Contentment with the existing order, and
							interest in great imperial enterprises in South Africa and other parts of the world,
							characterized English  politics. From 1886 to 1906
							(except for a short period in 1892 -1895) the Conservative party was in control of the
							House of Commons and the government. Liberalism appeared to be dead, and the agitation
							of the socialists apparently made no impression on the workingmen.

						Growth of socialist parties in England

						Socialistic parties had developed in Germany, France, Italy, Austria, Russia, and
							elsewhere, and were playing a very active part in political campaigns; but in England
							the workingmen showed no signs of deserting the old parties in large numbers and
							establishing a party of their own. In 1883 the Social Democratic Federation had been
							formed to promote the teachings of Marx, but in spite of its activities it only
							secured a small number of members. In 1893 there came into existence, under the
							leadership of Keir Hardie, a more moderate socialistic body, known as the Independent
							Labor party. Its adherents rejected Marx's notion of an inevitable class conflict, but
							its growth was exceedingly slow at first.

						The Fabian Society

						The well-known Fabian Society,1 of which Sidney and Beatrice Webb, George Bernard Shaw, and H. G. Wells
							have been distinguished members, originated in the early eighties for the purpose of
							spreading socialist doctrines. The Fabians rejected many of the doctrines of Marx, but
							at the same time they advocated the municipal or national ownership of land and
							industrial capital. They did not form a political party, but hoped to bring about
							better conditions by writing and lecturing, thus leading people to realize the
							possibility of reform.

						The Labor party in Parliament

						At length, in 1901, a Labor Representation Committee was formed in order to secure
							the united action of the many trade unions and the Independent Labor party. In 1905
							this committee pledged itself to work for the chief objects of socialism. When a
							general election to Parliament occurred in 19o6 it was ready to carry on a determined
							campaign, and the committee, with the aid of the Social Democrats and the 1 So called from the policy
								of the Roman dictator Fabius, "who gained his end by going slowly,"-- qui cunctando restituit rem.
							 Independent Labor party, succeeded in returning no less
							than fifty labor representatives to the House of Commons. Several of these were avowed
							socialists.

						A new period opened in 1906

						When at the same election the Liberal party was restored to power, a new epoch of
							reform activity opened. That party soon carried through Parliament a workingmen's
							compensation act and other labor laws, and gave the Conservatives to understand that
							these measures were only an installment of a long programme of new legislation.

						The House of Lords blocks reform

						The latter, intrenched in the House of Lords, where they had a large majority, began
							to take up arms against measures which were, in their opinion, nothing short of
							revolutionary. In December, 1906, the Lords mutilated the education bill which Commons
							had passed, and a few days later they threw out a plural-voting bill abolishing the
							ancient practice of allowing a man to vote in all counties in which he had the
							requisite property to entitle him to the ballot. Early in the following year the two
							houses of Parliament began to discuss their grievances against each other, and Sir
							Henry Campbell-Bannerman, the prime minister, took advantage of the occasion to warn
							the peers that the British constitution rested on a representative basis.

						The "revolutionary" budget of 1909

						The real clash between the Lords and Commons came in 1909 over the budget-- that is,
							over the taxes which the Liberals proposed to lay and the expenses they proposed to
							incur. In April of that year, Mr. Lloyd George, Chancellor of the Exchequer (who had
							succeeded Mr. Asquith when the latter became prime minister on the death of
							Campbell-Bannerman in 1908), laid before the House of Commons a scheme of taxation
							which stirred up a veritable hornets' nest. He proposed a high tax on automobiles, a
							heavy income tax with a special additional tax on incomes over £5000,-- heavier on
							unearned than on earned incomes, -and an inheritance tax on a new scale, varying in
							weight according to the amount of the inheritance up to fifteen per cent on estates
							over £1,000,000. He also proposed a new land tax distinguishing sharply between
							landowners who 
							
								LLOYD GEORGE
							
							
							 actually worked their lands and the owners of mineral
							lands and city lots who exacted royalties and made large profits from growth in land
							values. The budget also included a twenty per cent tax on unearned increment on land,
							payable on its sale or transfer, so that anyone who sold property at a profit would
							have to pay a good share of the gain to the public treasury. The chancellor also
							proposed a special tax on undeveloped and on mineral lands.

						A budget for war on poverty

						These special taxes, in addition to the other taxes, made a heavy budget; but the
							chancellor defended it on the ground that it was a war budget for "waging implacable
							war against poverty." He concluded his opening speech in defense of his policy by
							expressing the hope "that great advance will be made during this generation toward the
							time when poverty with its wretchedness and squalor will be as remote from the people
							of this country as the wolves which once infested the forests."

						The Conservatives attack the budget

						The budget was at once hotly attacked by the Conservatives as socialistic and
							revolutionary. They claimed that the distinction between "earned" and "unearned"
							incomes was an unwarranted and invidious attack on the rights of property. "If a man,"
							asked one, "is to be more heavily taxed on an income that he has not earned than on an
							earned income, on the ground that he does not have the same absolute right to both
							incomes, why may not the government advance step by step until it takes away all
							unearned incomes on the theory that their possessors have no right to them at all?"
							Some of the more conservative defenders of the budget shrank from answering this
							question, and contented themselves by replying that it was a matter of degree, not of
							fundamental principles. Other supporters of the budget frankly declared that a man's
							right to his property depended upon the way in which he got it.

						A new question in taxation

						Speaking. on this point, Mr. Winston Churchill said: "Formerly the question of the
							taxgatherer was, 'How much have you got?' ... Now a new question has arisen. We do not
							only ask to-day, 'How much have you got?' we also ask 'How did Outlines of European History you get it? Did you earn it by yourself, or
							has it been left to you by others? Was it gained by processes which are in themselves
							beneficial to the community in general, or was it gained by processes which have done
							no good to anyone, but only harm? Was it gained by the enterprise and capacity
							necessary to found a business, or merely by squeezing and bleeding the owner and
							founder of the business? Was it gained by supplying the capital which industry needs,
							or by denying, except at extortionate price, the land which industry requires? Was it
							derived by active reproductive processes, or merely by squatting on some piece of
							necessary land till enterprise and labor, national interests and municipal interests,
							had to buy you out at fifty times the agricultural value? Was it gained by opening new
							minerals to the service of man, or by drawing a mining royalty from the toil and
							adventure of others? ... How did you get it?' That is the new question which has been
							postulated, and which is vibrating in penetrating repetition through the land." The
							arguments in favor of the budget convinced the House of Commons, and it was carried by
							a handsome majority.

						The Lords reject the budget

						The debate on the budget began in the House of Lords on November 23, 1909, and it was
							at once claimed that the upper house had the constitutional right to reject money
							bills passed by Commons in spite of some precedents to the contrary. After a few days
							of debate the Lords defeated the budget by a vote of 350 to 75.

						The Commons protest

						The Liberals immediately took up the gauge thus thrown down. On December 2, Mr.
							Asquith moved in the House of Commons a resolution "That the action of the House of
							Lords in refusing to pass into law the financial provision made by the House for the
							services of the year is a breach of the Constitution and a usurpation of the rights of
							the House of Commons." This resolution was carried by a vote of 349 to 134, showing
							that there was little hope for a compromise on the issue. The following day Parliament
							was prorogued and an approaching dissolution was announced.

						

						The campaign for the election of January, 1910

						The election campaign which followed (December 1909-January 1910) was unusually
							bitter, being marked by open violence in some places. The Socialists, Radicals, and
							Irish demanded the speedy abolition of the House of Lords, but the moderate Liberals
							were content with proposals for reforming and abridging the power of that ancient
							body. The campaign which closed on January 28 gave the Liberals a majority, although
							they lost almost one hundred seats. Their majority was so small, however, that for
							working purposes they had to cultivate friendly relations with the Labor and Irish
							members.

						In fact, neither party was entirely satisfied with the outcome of the election, but
							the Conservatives conceded that some reform of the House of Lords was inevitable. At
							the opening of the new Parliament in February, 1910, Mr. Asquith stated that the
							defeated budget would be brought up again, and that some changes in the House of Lords
							would be proposed. In case of a defeat, he warned the House, another appeal would be
							made to the voters at a general election. The Lords at length yielded on the budget
							and in April, 1910, agreed to its passage.

						The election (December, 1910) on the House of Lords' issue

						The Liberals, however, continued their war on "the Lords' veto," and in Parliament
							and outside, the issue was hotly discussed. In the midst of this constitutional
							crisis, King Edward VII died (May 6, 1910), and a sort of truce was made between the
							leaders. This was followed by conferences between the representatives of the Liberals
							and Conservatives, at which attempts were made to arrive at a compromise. These
							efforts failed, and at the opening of Parliament in November it was found that the
							deadlock was as fast as ever. Thereupon the Liberals dissolved Parliament and appealed
							to the country in a new election that closed on December 19, 1910. The result of this
							campaign was as unsatisfactory as that of the preceding January, for the Liberals only
							made slight gains in spite of a hard fight.

						The House of Lords conquered

						Shortly after the opening of the new Parliament in February, 1911, a bill designed to
							check the exercise of the "veto"  power by the Lords was
							introduced in Commons and passed by a good round majority. The measure was then sent
							to the House of Lords, and Mr. Asquith announced that he had received the consent of
							King George V to create enough new peers to insure its passage in case the
							Conservative opponents were. able to defeat it. Thus intimidated, the upper house, on
							August 18, 1911, passed the Parliament Act, or the Lords' Veto Bill as it was called,
							the leading provisions of which follow.

						The Lords' Veto Bill

						If any money bill-- that is, a bill relative to raising taxes and making
							appropriations-- is passed by Commons and sent up to the Lords at least one month
							before the end of a session, and is not passed by the Lords within one month without
							amendment, the bill may be presented to the king for his signature and, on being
							approved, becomes a law notwithstanding the fact that the Lords have not consented to
							it. Any public bill (other than a money bill, or a bill changing the provision for a
							maximum term of five years for a parliament), passed by the House of Commons at three
							successive sessions and rejected by the Lords at each of the three sessions, may be
							presented to the king and, on receiving his approval, will become a law without the
							consent of the Lords-- provided that two years have elapsed between the date of the
							second reading of the bill in the Commons in the first of those sessions and the date
							on which it passes the Commons in the third of those sessions. The veto bill also
							fixed five years instead of seven years as the time which any parliament may last.
							That is, under the law of August 18, a new parliamentary election must be held at
							least every five years, although of course a dissolution may be ordered at any time by
							the cabinet.1

						The question of ministerial responsibility in Germany

						While the Liberal government in England was busy asserting the rights of the House of
							Commons against the House of Lords, noteworthy attempts were being made in the German
							Reichstag to force the imperial chancellor to recognize 1 Provision was also made in 1911 to pay
								members of the House of Commons £400 a year.
							 his responsibility to the popular representatives
							rather than to the emperor who appoints him. As we have already seen,1 the principle that the chief minister, the
							chancellor, should resign on finding a majority against him in the Reichstag was not
							accepted in Germany by Bismarck and the makers of the German constitution. In 1908 and
							1909 two events occurred which showed that, however absolute the Kaiser might regard
							his control over the chancellor, he could not in fact ignore the attitude of the
							parties in the Reichstag toward his representative.

						The Daily Telegraph affair

						In October, 1908, the London Daily Telegraph published what
							purported to be an interview with the emperor, in which he was quoted as saying that
							it "was one of his dearest wishes to live on the best of terms with England, although
							the prevailing sentiment among large sections of the middle and lower classes of his
							own people was not favorable to England." This and other statements attributed to the
							Kaiser stirred up ill feeling all over Europe, and everyone was astounded to find that
							the article in question had been sent to the German foreign office for approval and
							had been carelessly sanctioned by subordinates, initialed by the Chancellor von
							Billow, and sent to the Kaiser.

						The Chancellor resigns in response to public criticism

						This revelation of official incompetence and imperial intermeddling in foreign
							affairs profoundly moved the German people, and the chancellor was called upon in the
							Reichstag to answer for his conduct by various party leaders, many of whom definitely
							demanded the establishment of ministerial responsibility. Prince Billow at once sent
							in his resignation but the Kaiser refused to accept it, leaving to him the thankless
							task of explaining the emperor's indiscretion and his own carelessness. At the close
							of his defense, von Billow substantially promised the Reichstag that the emperor would
							abstain from such political utterances in the future, and added that only on such an
							understanding as to imperial practices could any 1 See above, p. 342.
							 minister continue in office. This statement was
							afterwards officially approved by the Kaiser, and the incident closed with a decided
							gain in the movement to subject the monarch to a sense of responsibility to the
							legislature.

						The chancellor defeated in the Reichstag, resigns

						The second event which revealed still more clearly the dependence of the chancellor
							upon parliamentary support occurred in 1909 in connection with the plans of Prince
							Bülow for increasing imperial revenues by extending the system of inheritance taxes to
							some classes previously exempt. The proposal was obnoxious to the Conservatives who
							joined with the Center, or Catholic, party and thus were able to defeat the
							chancellor's measure. Von Billow at once resigned, but the emperor persuaded him to
							remain in office long enough to secure a temporary adjustment of the budget. Shortly
							afterward, in July, 1909, the chancellor gave up his office and retired. In explaining
							his conduct, he said: "Of course, no party can overthrow a minister. The appointment
							as well as the dismissal of a minister depends constitutionally and entirely upon the
							crown. There can arise, however, situations in which a minister who has convictions
							and takes them seriously cannot remain in office. That such a situation could arise
							for me I showed the Conservatives at the proper time, in the Reichstag and privately,
							openly and honorably, and in a way that left no doubt. In fact, no doubt as to this
							has existed in the minds of the Conservatives. They were entirely aware of the
							character of my warnings. They knew that their tactics must force me to resign. Yet
							they took no account of my warnings; they consciously created a situation in which I
							could not remain."

						The sentiment in favor of popular government grows

						In short, the chancellor is not dependent upon the Reichstag, but he cannot remain in
							office if he does not have the proper support there. Of course, this does not mean
							that ministerial government has been attained in Germany, but it seems that events are
							rapidly tending in that direction. Moreover the socialists have been making an open
							fight in the Reichstag to secure a constitutional amendment making the executive  department subservient to the legislative branch of the
							imperial government. The heavy gains made by the socialists in the election in
							January, 1912-- from 3,251,009 to 4,250,300 votes-- and the increase of their
							membership in the Reichstag from 43 to 110 also indicates that the element of
							absolutism in the German government is a diminishing force. In general, the results of
							that election were favorable to the radicals and progressives, as the votes for the
							more important parties show.1

						Discontent with the monarchy in Portugal

						The popular movements in England and Germany were not accompanied by much criticism
							of the idea of a limited monarchy; and, in fact, at the opening of the new century it
							looked as if republican agitation against royalty as such had entirely disappeared in
							Europe. In Portugal, however, the attempt of the king to establish a dictatorship and
							squander the revenues without accountability raised up a party determined upon his
							overthrow, and on February 1, 1908, King Carlos and the Crown Prince, while riding in
							the streets of Lisbon, were assassinated. The late king's eighteen-year-old son was at
							once proclaimed as Manuel II, but he found that he had received a troublesome
							heritage. The little realm was disturbed by party dissensions; finances were in a bad
							way; workingmen were discontented; the radicals were waging war against the cleygy and
							the monks; and the republicans daily gained in strength in spite of the promises of
							reform made by the young ruler.

						The establishment of the Portuguese Republic, 1910

						In the elections of August, 1910, the republicans elected ten members of Parliament
							from Lisbon, and early in October a 1
								THE CHIEF PARTIES AND
										THE VOTE IN THE GERMAN ELECTIONS (1912)
								
									
										
										VOTES
										MEMBERS
									
									
										Socialists
										4,250,300
										110
									
									
										National Liberals
										1,672,600
										45
									
									
										Radicals
										1,528,900
										41
									
									
										Conservatives
										1,499,700
										57
									
									
										Center (Catholic)
										2,035,300
										93
									
								
							
							 revolt broke out at the capital. After some serious
							street fighting and the bombardment of the royal palace, the king fled to England,
							protesting that his hasty flight did not mean abdication. The republicans at once set
							up a provisional government and began the expulsion of the monks and nuns and the
							confiscation of their property. In May, 1911, elections were held for a constitutional
							convention which met in June. This convention drafted a constitution providing for a
							legislative body of two chambers, one elected directly by universal manhood suffrage
							and the other indirectly by the municipalities; for a president to be elected for four
							years by the legislature; and for a ministry responsible to Parliament.

						Troublesome times for the new republic

						The government under the new constitution was set up in August and September, 1911,
							and began the difficult task of conciliating the factions which the revolution had
							left behind. The Catholic priests and bishops were offered pensions but they declined
							to receive them, demanding the same privileges which their church enjoyed in the
							United States. On May 1 the Pope issued an encyclical condemning the anticlerical
							measures of the republic, and the republic replied by confiscating the government
							securities held by the clergy to the amount of $25,000,000. The finances of the
							government are in critical shape; there is a profound unrest among the workingmen of
							the industrial centers; but the young republic seems to be gaining in stability in
							spite of the continued efforts of the monarchists to overturn it.

						The constitutional revolution in Turkey (1908)

						The unrest which had been stirring western Europe for more than a hundred years--
							which had made Metternich and Wellington tremble for the safety of the throne and
							altar-- reached Turkey in the opening days of the new century. For some time, the
							Young Turk party had been busy spreading ideas of parliamentary government and
							national independence from foreign tutelage. Early in the year 1908 a Committee of
							Union and Progress, composed largely of army officers, was formed at Salonika, and
							soon enlisted support among the soldiers and the 
							people. In July, 1908, a revolt broke out, and the Salonika Committee proclaimed a
							constitution, at the same time announcing its intention to march upon Constantinople
							if the Sultan did not come to terms. The Sultan at once yielded and restored the
							constitution which he had granted in 1876 and then suspended in 1878. One or two of
							his notorious advisers were assassinated, but, on the whole, the revolution was
							comparatively peaceful. In October and November, the elections to the new Parliament
							were held, and in December, 1908, the Sultan opened the assembly with great pomp.

						The deposition of the Sultan

						The new government very soon found its hands full. There were disorders in various
							parts of the empire, particularly in Macedonia. On October 5, 1908, Prince Ferdinand
							of Bulgaria declared his country forever independent of Turkey. At the same time the
							Emperor Francis Joseph formally annexed Bosnia and Herzegovina, which had been under
							Austro-Hungarian suzerainty since the settlement of 1878. To cap the climax, the
							Conservatives and opponents of the constitution stirred up a revolt in Constantinople
							in which several soldiers and civilians were killed. The aged Sultan Abdul Hamid was
							thought to have aided, or at all events to have sympathized with, the reaction; and
							both houses of the Turkish Parliament, sitting as a national assembly, voted on April,
							1909, to depose him and proclaim his brother Sultan under the title of Mohammed V.

						Discontent with the results of the revolution

						The new Sultan's reign, auspiciously begun, has been full of troubles. Revolts and
							quarrels in all parts of the patchwork empire have been almost constant. The members
							of his cabinet have been regularly at loggerheads, and the government is beset with
							all the financial and political difficulties which accompany a revolutionary change in
							an old and corrupt form of government. In the midst of these domestic difficulties
							came a war with Italy, which gave the reactionary party an opportunity to denounce the
							Sultan and his advisers for having brought about the dismemberment of the empire. It
							remains to be seen whether a parliamentary government can really be maintained  for peoples so diverse in race and religion as those
							comprising the present Turkish Empire.1

						The advisers of the emperor of China forced to grant a constitution
							in 1911

						More astounding than the revolution in Turkey has been the establishment of a
							republic in China. As we have noted,2 the Dowager Empress in the autumn of 19o6 issued a decree announcing that a
							constitution would be granted at an early date, "solely dependent upon the progress of
							the people in education." That progress was amazingly rapid, for the advocates of
							popular government began to urge immediate action on the part of the government and
							soon forced it to fix the date of the new system at 1913. Meanwhile a national
							council, consisting of representatives of certain privileged classes and the
							provinces, met in October, 1911, and it speedily came into collision with the throne
							and the imperial advisers. About the same time revolutionary outbreaks occurred at
							many points, particularly in southern and central China. The government troops were
							overcome in city after city,-- though not without desperate and bloody fighting,-- and
							the national assembly finally forced the imperial administration to grant a liberal
							constitution and guarantee the election of a parliament with full power.

						The establishment of the Chinese Republic

						The radicals grew bolder. During the closing days of December a provisional
							republican assembly at Nanking proclaimed a republic and elected Dr. Sun Yat Sen
							president. Seeing that resistance was futile, the advisers of the boy emperor3 announced his abdication
							(February, 1912). At the same time the revolutionists drew together and chose as
							provisional president Yuan Shih-K'ai, who had just previously been dictator under the
							emperor and enjoyed the confidence of a large portion of the army.

						1 Even Persia has recently
							had a revolution. Previous to 1906 it was an absolute monarchy, but in that year the
							Shah, moved by revolutionary agitation, promised a national council, which met in the
							autumn. In the next year a new constitution was drawn up, and the attempt of the Shah
							to block the reforms led to his flight and abdication (1909). His son, a little boy,
							was then proclaimed, but, owing to the general disorder in the realm at the opening of
							1912, there was little prospect for a really stable constitutional government.

						2 See
								above, p. 487.

						3 The little emperor, P'u
							Yi, the last of the Manchu dynasty, was born in 1906, and after the death of the
							Dowager Empress in 19o09 was under the care of a regent.

						
						

						

						
						

						Conservative reaction in Russia

						Only in Russia has the movement for a more democratic government received a serious
							check during the last few years. The struggle against the autocracy carried on with
							such bitterness and sacrifice of life during the years 1904-1907,1 has died down into a scarcely audible
							protest. The third Duma, which the Tsar had made very much to his own liking by
							excluding from the elections practically every one except conservative property
							owners, has proved so tractable that no new election has been called since 1907. It
							has been busy chiefly with making large appropriations for naval and military
							expenditures designed to put the army and navy on a sound footing again after the
							disasters suffered in the war with Japan. There seems to be no indication that the
							"gradual establishment of representative government" which the calling of the Duma
							promised will be realized. Indeed, revolutionary fever seems to have disappeared as
							completely as it did more than thirty years ago after the death of Alexander III. The
							only political assassination which has occurred recently was the murder of the Premier
							Stolypin in September, 1911. The successor of the dead minister, however, announced a
							practical continuation of the former policy of the government.

						The awakening of women

						In the midst of the general political movement which has been extending the suffrage
							to men and widening the control of the voters over the government, women have not been
							indifferent spectators. Indeed, it would have been impossible for them to escape the
							general awakening of the common people, which has been one of the most striking
							features of the past hundred years; for the Industrial Revolution and education have
							changed the life and labor of women as well as of men.

						Former subjugation of women

						The first French constitution, which had so much to say of the rights of man, said
							nothing of the rights of woman. In the eighteenth century she was still regarded in
							the eyes of the law as in every way inferior to man. Nature had destined her to the
							bearing and the care of children, and to the conduct of the 1 See above, pp. 445sqq.
							 household. In England, down to the year 1870, the law
							fulfilled to the letter the command of the apostle Peter, "Ye wives, be in subjection
							to your husbands." A married woman could enjoy no property rights; her personal
							possessions-- clothes, jewels, and the like-- belonged to her husband; and her lands
							were administered by him. Indeed, a wife was, in a sense, her husband's serf; she
							could not make a valid contract, she could not sue or be sued, her husband could
							lawfully beat her for disobedience, and if she injured another person or his property,
							her husband was held for damages, just as if his ox had escaped and committed a
							depredation. In other countries the conditions were similar.

						Rights granted to women during the nineteenth century

						It was left for the nineteenth century gradually to free women from a great part of
							these disabilities, so that they may now make contracts, hold property, and engage in
							business on their own account. The Industrial Revolution, by opening up new
							employments to them, has given them a certain kind of independence of man which they
							never before enjoyed. They now often hold public positions, such as those of sanitary
							officers, factory inspectors, government clerks, and especially teachers. During the
							last twenty-five years the universities of Switzerland, Germany, and France have been
							gradually opened to women as well as to men, while special colleges and technical
							schools established for their particular benefit are becoming more and more common. It
							is this change of course which is leading to the gradual granting to women of the
							right to vote.

						Steady extension of the suffrage to women

						As early as 1870 the women of England were given the right to vote for members of the
							newly created school boards, and in 1888 and 1894 they were admitted to the franchise
							in certain local government matters. In 1893 women were enfranchised in New Zealand
							and a year later in South Australia. Shortly after the establishment of the new
							Commonwealth of Australia in 1901 full parliamentary suffrage was granted to women. In
							1906 the women of Finland, and  in 1907 and 1912 the
							women of Norway and Sweden respectively, were given the vote on the same terms as
							men.

						The beginning of the militant suffragist movement in England

						A new and striking interest was given to the whole subject of woman suffrage,
							however, in 1905, when some of the leaders among the English women, particularly Mrs.
							Pankhurst and her daughters, abandoned their peaceful methods of agitation and
							resorted to demonstrations of violence, which they knew had been so effective in the
							movement for manhood suffrage. These tactics were begun by Miss Christobel Pankhurst
							in defending a working girl who was being roughly treated by the police for an attempt
							to ask questions at a political meeting-- a privilege which had been fully accorded to
							men. In the winter of 1907-1908, the women suffragists organized demonstrations before
							the houses of cabinet officers and raided the House of Commons; and many of them on
							being arrested, refused to pay their fines and were sent to jail.

						The Woman Suffrage Bill in the House of Commons

						The disorders proved effective in centering the attention of the world on the demands
							of the women; and at length the House of Commons, in the summer of 1910, passed the
							Woman Suffrage Bill on its second reading by a vote of 299 to 190, and then killed it
							by referring it to the committee of the whole. This measure proposed to give women the
							vote on the same terms as men, and as there were property qualifications for male
							voters, the number of women enfranchised under it would be small. Suffragists,
							however, regarded it as an "opening wedge," and on securing Premier Asquith's promise
							to give the bill a fair chance to pass, they desisted from their violent tactics.

						Agitation renewed

						At length, however, in December, 1911, when the prime minister announced the
							intention of the cabinet to introduce a straight manhood suffrage bill and give the
							friends of woman suffrage a chance to amend it, the suffragists resumed rioting. Some
							of the leaders disapprove violence and urge that it is the better part of wisdom to
							await the action of Parliament on the whole question of universal suffrage.
					

					
					
						RECENT SOCIAL LEGISLATION

						Social reform now the issue in England

						90. We have already seen how Germany, under the leadership of
							Bismarck, undertook a great scheme of legislation designed to benefit the working
								classes.1 It was many years,
							however, before the principles embodied in this legislation found any considerable
							support in either France or England; but during the past ten years there has been
							going on in these two countries, particularly the latter, a revolution in the public
							attitude toward labor questions and poverty. This change in English sentiment was
							clearly expressed by a Liberal, Mr. Winston Churchill, in a political speech at
							Nottingham, on January 30, 1909: "The main aspirations of the British people are at
							the present time social rather than political. They see around them on every side, and
							almost every day, spectacles of confusion and misery which they cannot reconcile with
							any conception of humanity or justice. They see that there are in the modern state a
							score of misfortunes that can happen to a man without his being at fault in any way.
							They see, on the other hand, the mighty power of science, backed by wealth and power,
							to introduce order, to provide safeguards, to prevent accidents, or at least mitigate
							their consequences. They know that this country is the richest in the world; and in my
							sincere judgment the British democracy will not give their hearts to any party that is
							not able and willing to set up that larger, fuller, more elaborate, more thorough
							social organization, without which our country and its people will inevitably sink
							through sorrow to disaster and our name and fame fade upon the pages of history."

						Recent English labor laws

						In this spirit the Liberal government began, shortly after its accession to power in
							1906, a series of laws designed to mitigate, at least, if not to abolish, the evils of
							poverty, sweating, unemployment, and industrial accidents. The provisions of the
							Workmen's Compensation Act of 1897 were extended 1 See above, pp. 344sqq.
							 to agricultural laborers and domestic servants. Under
							this law employers in the industries covered are required to pay compensation to
							workmen injured in their employ, except when the accident is due to the "serious and
							willful misconduct of the injured workman himself." At the same time (1906) a law was
							passed exempting the funds of trade unions from the liability of being attached for
							damages caused by their officials in strikes and industrial conflicts generally. Two
							years later (1908) Parliament passed an act providing that, subject to certain
							incidental reservations, "a workman shall not be below ground in a mine for the
							purpose of his work and of going to and from his work, for more than eight hours
							during any consecutive twenty-four hours."

						Booth's survey of London poverty

						Measures for the benefit of trade unionists, miners, and injured workmen, however
							important they may be, do not solve the problem of poverty, due to low wages,
							uncertain employment, illness, and causes other than those which may be ascribed to
							individual faults. Undoubtedly poverty on a large scale has been one of the inevitable
							accompaniments of the Industrial Revolution, and in England the amount of depressing,
							hopeless poverty is enormous. Several years ago Mr. Charles Booth, a wealthy member of
							a steamship corporation, feeling that there was no accurate information available in
							regard to the condition of the working people of London, undertook a house-to-house
							canvass at his own expense. With a large corps of helpers he set about ascertaining
							the "numerical relations which poverty, misery, and depravity bear to regular earnings
							and comparative comfort," and in 1889 he published the first two volumes of his work
							entitled The Life and Labor of the People of London, of which
							sixteen volumes have now appeared. In the district of East London, embracing a
							population of nearly a million, he found that more than one third of the people
							belonged to families with incomes of a guinea (about $5.15) or less a week; that
							forty-two per cent of the families earned from about $5.50 to $7.50 a week; and that
							only about thirteen per  cent had more than $7.50 a week
							to live on. His studies further revealed terrible overcrowding in squalid tenements
							which were badly lighted, poorly equipped with water and sanitary arrangements, and
							reeking with disease. He reached the startling conclusion that throughout the vast
							city of London nearly one third of the people were in poverty; that is, lived on wages
							too low to provide the necessaries for a decent physical existence, to say nothing of
							comforts or luxuries.

						Indications that the poverty in London is not exceptional

						It might at first sight seem that the poverty of London is exceptionally great, but
							Mr. Rowntree, in an equally careful survey, has proved that in the city of York, with
							its population of less than eighty thousand inhabitants, toward one third of the
							people are also, as in London, in dire poverty.1 He has shown, too, that the physical development of the
							children,, the prevalence of disease, and the death rate corresponded with the rate of
							wages; in short, that health, happiness, and well-being increased as wages increased.
							There is reason to believe that conditions are essentially the same in many other
							English towns as well as on the Continent, although this has not as yet been
							demonstrated by scientific investigations.

						Possibility of abolishing poverty

						Formerly it was generally assumed that poverty was inevitable and that little could
							be done to remedy it, since there was not enough wealth in any given community to make
							everybody comfortable; but the progress of practical inventions and of scientific
							discovery has roused the hope in the minds of many that if industries were reorganized
							in a way to avoid waste and to promote efficiency, if the idle were set to work and
							precautions taken to distribute the wealth in such a way that a few could not, as now,
							appropriate vast fortunes, there might sometime be a sufficiency for all who were
							willing to do their part, so that all could live in comfort and bring up their
							children in healthful surroundings, thus greatly reducing vice and disease. As the
							kindly Pope Leo XIII well said, "There can be no question that some remedy must be
							found, and that quickly, for the 1 See Readings, Vol. II,
									pp. 487 sq.
							 misery and wretchedness which press so heavily at this
							moment on a large majority of the very poor."

						The English government declares war on poverty

						The English government has made "war on poverty" a part of its official programme and
							has already begun some important experiments designed to lessen the terrors of the
							struggle for existence which is waged especially by the poor of the great
							manufacturing centers. On August 1, 1908, it passed an old-age pension law, the
							leading provisions of which follow: Any person to be a recipient of a government
							pension must be seventy years of age, a British subject, and in receipt of a private
							income of less than £31 10s. Persons disqualified for receiving pensions are, under
							certain restrictions, those who are in receipt of poor relief, those who have failed
							to work according to their ability, opportunity, and need for the benefit of
							themselves and those dependent upon them, those who are detained in lunatic asylums,
							and convicted criminals. The maximum pension allowed is 5s., or about $1.25 per week,
							to those having incomes not exceeding £21 4s. a year, and the minimum pension is 1s. a
							week for those having incomes between £28 17s. 6d. per annum and £31 10s. Between
							these limits the amount of the pension is graded at 4s., 3s., or 2s. a week, according
							to the income of the recipient.

						Government employment bureaus

						To help in reducing the large amount of unemployment, Parliament passed an act in
							1909 authorizing the Board of Trade-- a branch of the national administration-- to
							establish labor exchanges throughout the country and collect information as to
							employers requiring working people and as to laborers seeking employment. Provisions
							were also made whereby the government may advance loans to laborers to pay their
							traveling expenses to the places where employment may be found for them by the labor
							exchanges.

						Regulation of wages in "sweated" trades

						Parliament has sought to raise the level of wages in some industries which do not pay
							the employees enough to uphold a fairly decent standard of life. By an act passed in
							1909,  provision is made for the establishment of trade
							boards in certain of the "sweated" trades, such as tailoring, machine lace-making, and
							box-making industries. These trade boards consist of representatives of the working
							people and the employers and also persons appointed by the government, and are
							empowered to fix minimum rates of wages for time work and general minimum rates for
							piece work in their respective trades. Agreements for wages lower than those fixed by
							the board are forbidden, and employers paying under the minimum are liable to heavy
							fines. The Board of Trade may extend the provision of this act "to any specified trade
							to which it does not at the time apply, if they are satisfied that the rate of wages
							prevailing in any branch of the trade is exceptionally low as compared with that in
							other employments, and that other circumstances of the trade are such as to render the
							application of this act to the trade expedient."

						Churchill's defense of government interference with wages

						Speaking in the House of Commons in support of this antisweating measure, Mr. Winston
							Churchill defended what might be regarded by the old-fashioned economists as an
							interference with "the natural law of wages." He said: "It was formerly supposed
								that the workings of the laws of supply and demand would in the regular and natural
								course of events, and by a steady progression, eliminate the evil and achieve
								adequate minimum standards. Modern opinion has found it necessary to refine upon
								these broad generalizations of the truth, and the first clear division that we make
								to-day in the question of wages is that between a healthy and an unhealthy condition
								of bargaining. ... Where, as in what we call 'sweated trades,' you have no
								organization at all on either side, no parity of bargaining between employers and
								employed; where the good employer is continually undercut by the bad, and the bad
								again by the worse; where the worker whose whole livelihood depends on the trade is
								undercut by the worker to whom it is a second string; where the feebleness and
								ignorance of the workers and their isolation from each other render them an easy
								prey to the  tyranny of bad masters and middlemen one
								step above them upon the lowest rung of the ladder and themselves held in the grip
								of the same relentless forces - there you have not a condition of progress but of
								progressive degeneration. ... We have seen from the investigations of the last
								twenty years, when the phenomena of sweating have been under close and scientific
								review, that there is no power of self-cure within the area of that evil."

						National insurance against ill-health and unemployment

						The most comprehensive of all the recent English social measures is the National
							Insurance Act of 1911, which went into effect in July, 1912. One part of this law
							requires the compulsory insurance of nearly all employees (except those not engaged in
							manual labor and enjoying an income of more than £160 a year) against ill-health of
							every kind. The insured persons, the employers, and the government are all
							contributors to the fund. Among the benefits for the insured are medical treatment and
							attendance, sanatorium treatment for tuberculosis, payments during sickness,
							disablement allowances, and the payment of 30s. to each mother on the birth of a
							child. A second portion of the act requires employers and employees in certain trades
							to contribute a small sum weekly to a fund for insurance against unemployment, and
							provides government assistance as well.

						France follows the example of England and Germany

						In 1910 France followed the example set by Germany and England and, building upon
							earlier laws, established a thorough-going system of old-age and disability pensions.
							The law requires all wage workers and salaried employees to be insured, and permits
							certain other workers to take advantage of the law if they wish. Employers and
							employees make equal contributions to the fund, and the government also lends its aid.
							The pension begins at the age of sixty-five-- five years earlier than in Germany-- and
							will normally amount to about $75 per annum for men and $60 per annum for women.
							Provisions are also made for those disabled through sickness or accident; and widows
							and orphans receive certain death benefits.

						

						Municipal socialism in Germany

						Although Germany has made no important additions to the social legislation described
								above,1 German cities are
							forging rapidly forward in their efforts to improve the lot of city dwellers
							generally. A number of municipalities, like Berlin, Munich, Leipzig, and Hanover, have
							purchased enormous areas of land so as to gain the profit arising from the increase in
							value and make it easier to prevent congestion. Several cities are laid out into
							zones, and the building in each zone is restricted by law to stop overcrowding. Some
							of the more progressive towns own their street-car lines, gas works, and
							electric-light plants, manage theaters, operate pawn shops, build houses for
							workingmen, and attempt to plan their growth in such a way as to obviate the hideous
							and unsanitary features which are supposed to be inevitable in industrial centers.

						Social reform does not check the growth of socialism

						All these measures of social reform in England, Germany, and France have not
							succeeded in checking the growth of socialism, although many of them have been
							advocated by socialists for a long time. Some serious changes in socialistic policies
							and tactics, however, have been proposed recently, and the socialists, roughly
							speaking, are divided into three groups, although generally they succeed in presenting
							a rather solid front to the other parties at elections.

						The "revisionist" wing of the Socialist party

						In the first place there has been a revolt (particularly in Germany) against the
							doctrines of the Marxian school on the part of a "revisionist" wing of the socialists,
							who hold that there will be no social "revolution" at all, but merely a succession of
							reform measures which will gradually establish the main features of the socialist
							system. Although the German revisionists have not been able to carry the party with
							them, they constitute a very powerful body within the organization.

						The "direct action" labor movement

						On the other extreme, the more radical socialists have become discontented with the
							meager results of peaceful political agitation and are advocating "direct action"
							instead-- that is, strikes and violent methods of bringing employers to terms, with
								1 See
									above, pp. 344
									sqq.
							 a view ultimately of securing working-class control
							over industries of all kinds, with or without government intervention. For example,
							the English railway employees struck in August, 1911, and began rioting in the large
							railway centers. They were thus able to bring about the interference of the government
							and to make decided gains in wages. As one of the leaders put it, they were able by
							throwing a few bricks to make more substantial gains in their incomes than had been
							secured by all the laborious legislation of Parliament on their behalf in many years.
							In France, also, direct action has been gaining in favor, and recent labor troubles
							have been accompanied by a great deal of violence-- "sabotage," as it is called there.
							The "direct actionists," or "syndicalists," as they are called in France, would
							organize the workingmen of all grades and crafts into one grand consolidated union for
							the purpose of dominating the whole field of industry by the sheer strength of their
							numbers and solidarity.

						The "middle of the road" socialists

						The rank and file of the socialists, however, repudiate the doctrines of the "
							moderate reformers " and the "direct actionists." They denounce the former as playing
							into capitalist hands, and the latter as introducing anarchistic methods. The
							socialist parties in nearly all European countries choose to rely on peaceful methods
							of agitation and expect to carry out their programme when they have secured control of
							their governments at the ballot boxes.

						Growth of enlightenment may hasten the solution of the labor
							problem

						Whether the mutual hostility of poor and rich will deepen in Europe and bring on a
							new social conflict, or whether there will be concessions on both sides resulting in
							gradual reform, the future alone can determine. It is clear in any case that the evils
							of our present organization are being more and more generally understood, and there is
							hope that many shocking inequalities may speedily be done away with. "Who can gauge
								the far-reaching influence of even the science we have, in ordering and quickening
								the imagination of men, in enhancing and assuring their powers? Common men feel
								secure in enterprises  it needed men of genius to
								conceive in former times. And there is a literature-- for all our faults we do write
								more widely, deeply, disinterestedly, more freely and frankly than any set of
								writers ever did before-- reaching incalculable masses of readers and embodying an
								amount of common consciousness and purpose beyond all precedent. Consider only how
								nowadays the problems that were once inaccessible thoughts of statesmen may be
								envisaged by common men!"1
					

					
						INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS

						The cost of preparation for war troubles European governments

						91. Since the close of the Franco-German War peace has been
							maintained among the nations of western Europe, but they have all been transformed
							into armed camps in preparation for possible wars to come. The new inventions in
							military machinery-- improvements in gun construction, the discovery of new
							explosives, advances in shipbuilding, and the adaptation of the aeroplane to warfare--
							increase more rapidly than ever the financial burden of the nations by rendering any
							military equipment speedily obsolete. Consequently the ministries of the various
							countries are at their wits' end in devising new varieties of taxes in order to meet
							their growing military expenditures. The cost of war itself has also increased
							immensely, so that each government will hesitate a long time before it precipitates an
							armed conflict. Indeed, several controversies, which in other days might have brought
							on wars, have been recently settled by peaceful negotiation.

						The Balkan crisis settled peaceably

						One of these troublesome affairs occurred in 1908-1909 in connection with the Turkish
							revolution, the annexation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the general undoing of the
							settlement of the Balkan situation which had been reached at the Conference of Berlin
							in 1878. Some of the papers at the time clamored for armed intervention, but the whole
							affair passed off peaceably-- no European power being willing to take the first step
							that might have precipitated a second Crimean War.

						1 Wells,
									The Future in America, p. 256.

						

						France and Germany prepare for war but come to terms (1911)

						The Moroccan question, which, as we have seen, the interested powers attempted to
							settle at Algeciras,1 was
							reopened in 1911 by a controversy between France and Germany which for a few months
							threatened to loose the dogs of war. In the summer of that year, when France and Spain
							were engaged in executing the terms of the Algeciras settlement, French troops took
							possession of Fez. France assured Germany that the military expeditions in Morocco
							were only temporary and were not designed to advance French interests particularly.
							However, Germany did not accept the explanation and sent a gunboat to Agadir, a
							southern port on the Atlantic coast of Morocco, and hinted that German marines would
							remain there until France was ready to withdraw from Fez. The war spirit flamed up in
							both countries, and extensive military preparations were made. Mr. Asquith, prime
							minister of Great Britain, significantly warned Germany that English relations to
							France and Morocco made his country a party to any settlement of the dispute. Shortly
							afterward France and Germany came to terms-- the former securing large rights in
							Morocco and the latter "colonial compensations" in the Kamerun and French Congo. The
							war scare thereupon disappeared.

						Rumors of war between England and Germany

						A third disturbing feature of recent European politics has been the persistent growth
							of ill-will between England and Germany. This ill-will has sprung out of the trade
							rivalry of the two countries. As we have pointed out,2 Germany was industrially and commercially backward before
							the consolidation of 1867-1871, and then suddenly became a powerful competitor of
							Great Britain for colonial possessions and new markets in all parts of the world.
							Relatively, German trade has been increasing more rapidly than British trade, and the
							German navy has been greatly enlarged in order to protect the growing maritime
							interests of the empire. English manufacturers and merchants have begun to chafe under
							the competition of Germans, and belligerent English publicists insist that the German
							navy is not 1 See above,
								p. 497.2 See above, p. 466.
							 only a menace to British supremacy on the high seas,
							but is constructed with ulterior designs on Great Britain. War parties in both
							countries have clamored for a feverish rivalry in ship construction and have made all
							possible capital out of the strained relations. However, there are strong peace
							parties in both countries, and valiant efforts are being made, officially and
							privately, to put a stop to the war hysteria.

						The Turko-Italian War

						The most recent affair of international significance has been the war between Italy
							and Turkey. As has been mentioned,1 Italy, shortly after the establishment of unity, began to have territorial
							ambitions in Africa and actually acquired some colonies. This growth of Italian
							influence was from the first looked upon with distrust by the Sultan of Turkey, who
							began to fear for his remaining possessions in Northern Africa. Turkish opposition to
							the pretensions of Italy increased after the revolution of 1908, and this incensed the
							Italians, who declared that their merchants and citizens, in Tripoli especially, were
							constantly being mistreated by the Turks. In September, 1911, Italy sent an ultimatum
							to Turkey, enumerating her complaints against Turkish neglect and disorders, informing
							the Sultan that military occupation had been decided upon, and requesting him to
							permit this to be done peaceably, on pain of war. Turkey appealed to the powers of
							Europe, and on September 29, 1911, Italy proclaimed war. Tripoli was bombarded and on
							October 4 that city was occupied by Italian troops. The war, however, did not come to
							an end at once, as the Italians expected, but dragged along for many months. All
							Europe protested against this "high-handed" action by Italy; but Italy replied that
							she was merely following the example set by other countries-- protecting the lives and
							property of her citizens by annexing a country beset by chronic disorders.

						The growth of the peace movement

						In the face of all these disturbing events, the movement for international peace has
							been growing apace. Peace societies, national and international, have been increasing
							in number and 1 See above, p. 319.
							\ in membership, and world congresses of every kind--
							scientific, political, and literary-- are yearly multiplying. A special impetus was
							given to peace propaganda in December, 1910, when Mr. Carnegie transferred $10,000,000
							to a board of trustees to be devoted to the spread of the doctrine of universal peace.
							The interest of the public in the subject is reflected in the large amount of
							attention given to it in the daily and periodical press. It may be truly said that the
							idea of world pacification has passed from the stage of theory into the field of
							practical politics.

						Peace treaties between nations

						Since the first Hague Conference more than one hundred and thirty treaties have been
							made between nations, pledging them to submit to arbitration all disputes which "do
							not affect the vital interests, the independence, or the honor of the contracting
							parties, and do not concern the interests of third parties." Recently some nations
							have gone further and proposed treaties binding themselves to submit to arbitration
							"all questions. which are in their nature justiciable in character." Treaties of this
							character were signed by the United States with France and with Great Britain in
							August, 1911, and this was hailed by the peace advocates as the most substantial gain
							made for years. The Senate of the United States, however, refused to ratify the
							treaties in this form.

						Limitation of armaments and a league of peace

						No temporary setback, however, can check the movement against war. As Mr. Roosevelt
							said at Christiania in an address acknowledging the Nobel peace prize of 1910:
								"Something should be done as soon as possible to check the growth of armaments,
								especially naval armaments, by international agreement. ...Granted sincerity of
								purpose, the great powers of the world should find no insurmountable difficulty in
								reaching an agreement which would put an end to the present costly and growing
								extravagance of expenditure on naval armaments. ... Finally, it would be a master
								stroke if those great powers honestly bent on peace would form a league of peace,
								not only to keep peace among themselves, but to prevent by force, if  necessary, its being broken by others. The ruler or
								statesman who should bring about such a combination would have earned his place in
								history for all time and his title to the gratitude of mankind."
					

					
						REFERENCES

						None of the standard manuals to which reference has been made for the earlier periods
							deal with the topics of current history reviewed in this chapter. The important
							English reform statutes and extracts from the parliamentary debates on recent issues
							are to be found in C. H. HAYES, British Social
								Politics (In press, Ginn and Company), and are worthy of careful study. For the
							supplementary reading in general it will be necessary for the student to consult
							recent periodical literature and serial publications, such as the Annual
								Register, an English publication, which reviews the year's history throughout
							the world, and the Statesman's Year-Book, also an annual
							publication, which indicates the important changes made during the year in the
							governments of the respective countries, gives statistical information on commerce,
							population, army and navy, and finances, and contains from time to time valuable maps
							showing geographical changes. By means of these works and current newspapers and
							periodicals the student may trace the course of events onward from the summer of
							1912.
					
				
			
		

		
			
				
				APPENDIX I

				RULERS OF THE CHIEF EUROPEAN STATES SINCE THE AGE OF LOUIS
					XIV

				One of the chief conclusions reached in these volumes is that kings have, during the
					nineteenth century, come to be held in ever-diminishing esteem; and it must be confessed
					that their names are now of relatively slight importance. Nevertheless they are often
					referred to in historical works, and we may atone for some seeming slights to royalty in
					our pages by giving a convenient list of all the rulers down to August, 1912, whose names
					are likely to be met with. The countries are given in alphabetical order.

				AUSTRIA-HUNGARY (see Holy Roman Empire)

				
					
						BELGIUM
					
					
						Leopold I, 1831-1865
						Albert, 1909-
					
					
						Leopold II, 1865-1909
					
				

				
					
						DENMARK (including Norway until 1814)
					
					
						Frederick III, 1648-1670
						Frederick VI (regent, 1784-1808), 1808-1839
					
					
						Christian V, 1670-1699
						
					
					
						Frederick IV, 1699-1730
						Christian VIII, 1839-1848
					
					
						Christian VI, 1730-1746
						Frederick VII, 1848-1863
					
					
						Frederick V, 1746-1766
						Christian IX, 1863-1906
					
					
						Christian VII, 1766-1808
						Frederick VIII, 1906-1912
					
					
						
						Christian X, 1912
					
				

				
					
						FRANCE
					
					
						Louis XIV, 1643-1715
						The Consulat, 1799-1804
					
					
						Louis XV, 1715-1774
						(Napoleon as First Consul)
					
					
						Louis XVI, 1774-1792
						The First Empire, 1804-1815 (Napoleon I, Emperor of the French)
					
					
						The Convention, 1792-1795
						
					
					
						The Directory, 1795-1799
						
					

					

					
						FRANCE (continued)
					
					
						Louis XVIII, 1814-1824
						Adolphe Thiers, President, 1871-1873
					
					
						Charles X, 1824-1830
						
					
					
						Louis Philippe, 1830-1848
						Marshal MacMahon, 1873-1879
					
					
						The Second Republic, 1848-1852
						
					
					
						
						F. J. P. Jules Grévy, 1879-1887
					
					
						(Louis Napoleon, President) The Second Empire, 1852-1870
						
					
					
						
						F. Sadi Carnot, 1887-1894
					
					
						
						Casimir Perier, 1894-1895
					
					
						(Napoleon III, Emperor of the French)
						Félix Faure, 1895-1899
					
					
						
						Émile Loubet, 1899-1906
					
					
						The Third Republic Government of National Defense, 1870-1871
						Armand Fallières, 1906-
					
				

				
					
						GERMAN EMPIRE
					
					
						William I, 1871-1888
						William II, 1888-
					
					
						Frederick III, March-June, 1888
						
					
				

				
					
						GREAT BRITAIN
					
					
						Charles II, 1660-1685
						George II, 1727-1760
					
					
						James II, 1685-1688
						George III, 1760-1820
					
					
						William and Mary, 1689-1694
						George IV, 1820-1830
					
					
						
						William IV, 1830-1837
					
					
						William III, 1694-1702
						Victoria, 1837-1901
					
					
						Anne, 1702-1714
						Edward VII, 1901-1910
					
					
						George I, 1714-1727
						George V, 1910-
					
				

				
					
						GREECE
					
					
						Otto I, 1833-1862
						George I, 1863-
					
				

				
					
						HOLY ROMAN EMPIRE
								AND AUSTRIA-HUNGARY
					
					
						Leopold I, 1658-1705
						(Maria Theresa, Austro-Hungarian ruler, 1740-1780)
					
					
						Joseph I, 1705-1711
						
					
					
						Charles VI, 1711-1740
						Francis I, 1745-1765

					
					
						(Charles VII of Bavaria, 1742-1745)
						Joseph II, 1765-1790
					
					
						
						Leopold II, 1790-1792
					

					

					
						HOLY ROMAN EMPIRE
								AND AUSTRIA-HUNGARY (continued)
					
					
						Francis II as Holy Roman Emperor, 1792-1806
						Ferdinand I, 1835-1848
					
					
						
						Francis Joseph, 1848-
					
					
						As Austrian Emperor, Francis I, 1806-1835
						
					
				

				
					
						ITALY
					
					
						Victor Emmanuel II,
						Humbert, 1878-1900
					
					
						1849-1878
						Victor Emmanuel III, 1900-
					
					
						(King of Italy from 1861)
						
					
				

				
					
						MONTENEGRO
					
					
						Nicholas I, 1860-
						
					
				

				
					
						NETHERLANDS
					
					
						William I, 1815-1840
						William III, 1849-1890
					
					
						William II, 1840-1849
						Wilhelmina, 1890-
					
				

				
					
						NORWAY
					
					
						Same rulers as Denmark, 1523-1814
						Same rulers as Sweden, 1814-1905
					
					
						Christian Frederick, 1814
						Haakon VII, 1905-
					
				

				
					
						POLAND
					
					
						John Sobieski, 1674-1696
						Frederick Augustus of Saxony (restored), 1709-1733
					
					
						Frederick Augustus of Saxony, 1697-1704
						
					
					
						
						Frederick Augustus II, 1734-1763
					
					
						Stanislas Lesczcynski, 1704-1709
						
					
					
						
						Stanislas II, 1764-1795
					
				
				
					
						THE POPES
					
					
						Clement IX, 1667-1669
						Innocent XII, 1691-1700
					
					
						Clement X, 1670-1676
						Clement XI, 1700 -1721
					
					
						Innocent XI, 1676-1689
						Innocent XIII, 1721-1724
					
					
						Alexander VIII, 1689-1691
						Benedict XIII, 1724-1730
					

					

					
						THE POPES (continued)
					
					
						Clement XII, 1730-1740
						Leo XII, 1823-1829
					
					
						Benedict XIV, 1740-1758
						Pius VIII, 1829-1830
					
					
						Clement XIII, 1758-1769
						Gregory XVI, 1831-1846
					
					
						Clement XIV, 1769-1774
						Pius IX, 1846-1878
					
					
						Pius VI, 1775-1799
						Leo XIII, 1878-1903
					
					
						Pius VII, 1800-1823
						Pius X, 1903-
					
				

				
					
						PORTUGAL (monarchy)
					
					
						Alfonso VI, 1656-1683
						Peter IV (Dom Pedro), 1826
					
					
						Peter II, 1683-1706
						Maria II, 1826-1828
					
					
						John V, 1706-1750
						Dom Miguel, 1828-1833
					
					
						Joseph Emmanuel, 1750-1777
						Maria II (restored), 1833-1853
					
					
						Maria I and Peter III, 1777-1786
						Peter V, 1853-1861
					
					
						
						Luis I, 1861-1889
					
					
						Maria alone, 1786-1816
						Dom Carlos, 1889-1908
					
					
						John (regent, 1791-1816), 1816-1826
						Manuel II, 1908-1910
					
				

				
					
						PORTUGAL (republic)
					
					
						Manuel Arriaga, President, 1911-
						
					
				

				
					
						PRUSSIA
					
					
						Frederick William, the Great Elector, 1640-1688
						Frederick William II, 1786-1797
					
					
						
						
					
					
						
						Frederick William III, 1797-1840
					
					
						Frederick III, Elector, 1688-1701
						
					
					
						
						Frederick William IV, 1840-1861
					
					
						King Frederick I, 1701-1713
						
					
					
						
						William I, 1861-1888
					
					
						Frederick William I, 1713-1740
						Frederick III, 1888
					
					
						
						William II, 1888-
					
					
						Frederick II, the Great, 1740-1786
						
					
				
				
					
						ROUMANIA
					
					
						Carol I (as king), 1881-
						
					
				

				

				
					
						RUSSIA
					
					
						Alexis, 1645-i676
						Ivan VI, 1740-1741
					
					
						Feodor Alexievitch, 1676-1682
						Elizabeth, 1741-1761
					
					
						
						Peter III, January-July, 1762
					
					
						Ivan V and Peter the Great, 1682-1689
						Catharine II, 1762-1796
					
					
						
						Paul, 1796-1801
					
					
						Peter the Great alone, 1689-1725
						Alexander I, 1801-1825
					
					
						
						Nicholas I, 1825-1855
					
					
						Catharine I, 1725-1727
						Alexander II, 1855-1881
					
					
						Peter II, 1727-1730
						Alexander III, 1881-1894
					
					
						Anna Ivanovna, 1730-1740
						Nicholas II, 1894-
					
				

				
					
						SERVIA
					
					
						Milan (as king), 1882-1889
						Alexander, 1889-1903
					
					
						
						Peter, 1903-
					
				
				
					
						SPAIN
					
					
						Charles II, 1665-1700
						Isabella II, 1833-1868
					
					
						Philip V, 1700-1746
						Revolutionary Government, 1868-1870
					
					
						Ferdinand VI, 1746-1759
						
					
					
						Charles III, 1759-1788
						Amadeo of Saxony, 1870-1873
					
					
						Charles IV, 1788-1808
						Republic, 1873-1874
					
					
						Ferdinand VII, 1808
						Alfonso XII, 1874-1885
					
					
						Joseph Bonaparte, 1808-1813
						Maria (pro tem.), 1885-1886
					
					
						
						Alfonso XIII, 1886-
					
					
						Ferdinand VII (restored), 1813-1833
						
					
				

				
					
						SWEDEN
					
					
						Charles X, 1654-1660
						Gustavus IV, 1792-1809
					
					
						Charles XI, 1660-1697
						Charles XIII, 1809-1818
					
					
						Charles XII, 1697-1718
						Charles (John) XIV, 1818-1844
					
					
						Ulrica Eleanora, 1718-1720
						
					
					
						Frederick I, 1720-1751
						Oscar I, 1844-1859
					
					
						Adolphus Frederick, 1751-1771
						Charles XV, 1859-1872
					
					
						
						Oscar II, 1872-1907
					
					
						Gustavus III, 1771-1792
						Gustavus V, 1907-
					
				

				

				
					
						TURKEY
					
					
						Mohammed IV, 1649-1687
						Selim III, 1789-1807
					
					
						Solyman II, 1687-1691
						Mustapha IV, 1807-1808
					
					
						Achmet II, 1691-1695
						Mahmoud II, 1808-1839
					
					
						Mustapha II, 1695-1703
						Abdul Medjid, 1839-1861
					
					
						Achmet III, 1703-1730
						Abdul Aziz, 1861-1876
					
					
						Mahmoud I, 1730-1754
						Amurath V (Murad), 1876
					
					
						Othman III, 1754-1757
						Abdul Hamid II, 1876-1909
					
					
						Mustapha III, 1757-1774
						Mohammed V, 1909-
					
					
						Abdul Hamid I, 1774-1789
						
					
				
			

			

			
				APPENDIX II
				LIST OF BOOKS 1
						ANDREWS, Historical Development of Modern
							Europe (G. P. Putnam's Sons, $2.75).
						ASAKAWA, The Russo-Japanese Conflict
							(Houghton Mifflin Company, $2.00).
						BAIN, Charles XII and the Collapse of the Swedish
							Empire[Heroes of the Nation Series] (G. P. Putnam's Sons, $1.5O).
						BEARD, Introduction to the English Historians
							(The Macmillan Company, $1.60).
						BODLEY, The Church in France (A. Constable
							& Co., London).
						BODLEY, France (The Macmillan Company,
							$2.50).
						BRACQ, France under the Republic (Charles
							Scribner's Sons, $1.50).
						BRIGHT, Maria Theresa (The Macmillan Company,
							75 cents).
						BURY, Catherine II [Foreign Statesmen Series]
							(The Macmillan Company, 75 cents).
						Cambridge Modern History, Volume VIII [The French Revolution]
							(The Macmillan Company, $4.00).
						Cambridge Modern History, Volume IX [Napoleon] (The Macmillan
							Company, $4.00).
						Cambridge Modern History, Volume X [The Restoration] (The
							Macmillan Company, $4.00).
						Cambridge Modern History, Volume XI [The Growth of
							Nationalities] (The Macmillan Company, $4.00).
						Cambridge Modern History, Volume XII [The Latest Age] (The
							Macmillan Company, $4.00).
				CARLYLE, Frederick the Great.
						CESARESCO, Cavour [Foreign Statesmen Series]
							(The Macmillan Company, 75 cents).
						1 The works here enumerated
							are those referred to in the notes throughout this volume and a few additional books
							of special merit. They would form a valuable and inexpensive collection for use in a
							high school. The prices given are in most instances subject to a discount, often as
							high as twenty-five per cent.
						
						CHEYNEY, Industrial and Social History of
							England (The Macmillan Company, $1.40).
						CHEYNEY, Short History of England (Ginn and
							Company, $1.40).
						COLBY, Selections from the Sources of English
							History (Longmans, Green, & Co., $1.50).
						COUBERTIN, The Evolution of France under the Third
								Republic [Translated by Isabel F. Hapgood] (Thomas Y. Crowell & Co.,
							$3.00).
						DAWSON, Bismarck and State Socialism (Charles
							Scribner's Sons, $1.00).
						DAWSON, German Socialism and Ferdinand
							Lasalle (Charles Scribner's Sons, $1.00).
						DAWSON, The Evolution of Modern Germany
							(Charles Scribner's Sons, $4.00).
						DAY, History of Commerce (Longmans, Green,
							& Co., $2.00).
						DOUGLAS, Europe and the Far East (The
							Macmillan Company, $2.00).
						FOSTER, Arbitration and the Hague Court
							(Houghton Mifflin Company, $1.00).
						FOURNIER, Napoleon I (Henry Holt and Company,
							$2.00).
						FYFFE, History of Modern Europe (Henry Holt
							and Company, single-volume edition, $2.75).
						GREEN, Short History of the English People,
							Revised Edition (Harper & Brothers, $1.20).
						HART, Formation of the Union [Epochs of
							American History Series] (Longmans, Green, & Co., $1.25).
						HASSALL, Balance of Power [European History,
							1715-1789] (The Macmillan Company, $1.60).
						HAYES, British Social Politics (Ginn and
							Company, in press).
						HAZEN, Europe since 1815 (Henry Holt and
							Company, $3.00).
						HENDERSON, Short History of Germany, 2
							volumes (The Macmillan Company, $4.00).
						HIRST, Adam Smith [English Men of Letters
							Series] (The Macmillan Company, 75 cents).
						HOBSON, Evolution of Modern Capitalism
							(Charles Scribner's Sons, $1.50).
						HOLLAND, FRANCIS, Constitutional History of England, 1860-1911 [A continuation of May's Constitutional History of England] (Longmans, Green, & Co.,
							$3.50).
						
						HOWARD, Preliminaries ofthe Revolution
							[American Nation Series] (Harper & Brothers, $2.00).
						HUNTER, A Brief History of the Indian Peoples
							(Oxford University Press, 90 cents).
						JOHNSTON, R. M., Napoleon (A. S. Barnes
							Company, $1.00).
						JOHNSTON, SIR HARRY, A History of the Colonization of Africa by Alien Races (The Macmillan
							Company, $1.50).
						JOHNSTON AND SPENCER, Ireland's
							Story (Houghton Mifflin Company, $1.40).
						KENDALL, Source Book of English History (The
							Macmillan Company, 80 cents).
						KIRKUP, History of Socialism (The Macmillan
							Company, $2.00).
						KITCHIN, History of France, 3 volumes (Oxford
							University Press, $2.60 a volume).
						LECKY, History of England in the Eighteenth
							Century, 7 volumes (D. Appleton and Company, $7.00).
						LEE, Source Book of English History (Henry
							Holt and Company, $2.00).
						LEGER, History of Austria-Hungary (G. P.
							Putnam's Sons).
						LOWELL, A. L., Governments and Parties in
							Continental Europe, 2 volumes (Houghton Mifflin Company, $5.00).
						LOWELL, A. L., The Government of England, 2
							volumes (The Macmillan Company, $4.00).
						LOWELL, E. J., The Eve of the French
							Revolution (Houghton Mifflin Company, $2.00).
						LYALL, Rise of British Dominion in India
							(Charles Scribner's Sons, $1.50).
						LYALL, Warren Hastings [English Men of Action
							Series] (The Macmillan Company, 75 cents).
						MATHEWS, The French Revolution (Longmans,
							Green,& Co., $1.25).
						MAY, Constitutional History of England, 3
							volumes (Longmans, Green, & Co., $4.50; new edition, 1912).
						MORFILL, Poland (G. P. Putnam's Sons,
							$1.50).
						MORLEY, Diderot and the Encyclopedists, 2
							volumes (The Macmillan Company, $1.50 a volume).
						MORLEY, Rousseau, 2 volumes (The Macmillan
							Company, $1.50 a volume).
						
						MORLEY, Voltaire (The Macmillan Company,
							$1.50).
						MORLEY, Walpole [English Statesmen Series]
							(The Macmillan Company, 75 cents).
						MULLER, Political History of Recent Times
							(American Book Company, $2.00).
						PERKINS, France under Louis XV, 2 volumes
							(Houghton Mifflin Company, $4.00).
						PERKINS, France under the Regency (Houghton
							Mifflin Company, $2.00).
						PERKINS, Richelieu (G. P. Putnam's Sons,
							$1.50).
						PHILLIPS, European History, 1815-1899 (The
							Macmillan Company, $1.50).
						RAMBAUD, History of Russia, 3 volumes (Dana
							Estes & Company, $6.00).
						REINSCH, Colonial Administration (The
							Macmillan Company, $1.25).
						REINSCH, Colonial Government (The Macmillan
							Company, $1.25).
						REINSCH, World Politics at End of Nineteenth
							Century (The Macmillan Company, $1.25).
						ROSE, Development of Modern European Nations,
							2 volumes (G. P. Putnam's Sons, $4.00).
						ROSE, The Life of Napoleon I, two volumes in
							one (The Macmillan Company, $3.00).
						ROSE, Rise of Democracy in England (Stone,
							$1.25).
						ROSS, E. A., The Changing Chinese (The
							Century Company, $2.40).
						SABATIER, PAUL, Disestablishment in
							France (Charles Scribner's Sons, $1.25).
						SAMUELSON, The Civilization of our Day
							(Sampson Low, Marston & Co., London, 1886).
						SAY, Turgot [Great French Writers Series] (A.
							C. McClurg & Co., 75 cents).
						SEIGNOBOS, Political History of Europe since
							1814 (Henry Holt and Company, $3.00).
						SKRINE, Expansion of Russia (The Macmillan
							Company, $1.50).
						SOREL, Montesquieu [Great French Writers
							Series] (A. C. McClurg & Co., 75 cents).
						SPARGO, Socialism (The Macmillan Company,
							$1.25).
						Statesman's Year-Book, The [1912](The Macmillan Company,
							$3.00).
						
						STEPHENS, European History, 1789-1815 (The
							Macmillan Company, $1.40).
						STEPHENS, History of the French Revolution, 2
							volumes (Charles Scribner's Sons, $5.00).
						STILLMAN, The Union of Italy (The Macmillan
							Company, $1.60).
						TERRY, A History of England (Scott, Foresman
							and Company, $2.00).
						THURSTON, A History of the Growth of the Steam
							Engine (D. Appleton and Company, $2.50).
						THWAITES, The Colonies [Epochs of American
							History Series] (Longmans, Green, & Co., $1.25).
						THWAITES, France in America [American Nation
							Series] (Harper & Brothers, $2.00).
						TRAILL, William III (The Macmillan Company,
							75 cents).
						TUTTLE, History of Prussia to the Accession of
								Frederick the Great, 4 volumes (Houghton Mifflin Company, Volumes I-III, $2.25
							each; Volume IV, $1.50).
						TYLER, England in America [American Nation
							Series] (Harper & Brothers, $2.00).
						WAKEMAN, European History, 1598-1715 (The
							Macmillan Company, $1.40).
						WALLACE, A. R., AND OTHERS, Progress of
							the Century (Harper & Brothers, $2.50).
						WILSON, Clive [English Men of Action Series]
							(The Macmillan Company, 75 cents).
						WOODWARD, The Expansion of the British Empire
							(The Macmillan Company, $1.00).
			

			
				
				

				INDEX

				NOTE. Consult Analytical Table of Contents for all leading topics
				
					
						Absentee landlords, 406 sqq.
						August 4-5, night of, 121
					
					
						Abyssinia, 319
						Arangrebe, 76
					
					
						Accident insurance, in Germany,
						Ausgleich, 335
					
					
						347; in England, 527
						Austerlitz, 202
					
					
						Acre, siege of, 179
						Australasia, 421 sqq.
					
					
						Act of Union, 408
						Australia, 421 sqq.; commonwealth
					
					
						Adrianople, 460
						of, 423
					
					
						Afghanistan, 414 note
						Austria, possession of, in the
					
					
						Africa, 491 sqq.
						eighteenth century, 63; under
					
					
						Aix-la-Chapelle, Congress of, 238
						Maria Theres, 63 sqq. ; under
					
					
						Albanians, 462
						Joseph II, 43 sqq.; at war with
					
					
						Albert Nyanza, 493
						France, 142 sqq., 170 sqq., 186
								sqq.,
					
					
						Alexander of Servia, 464
						201 sqq. , 204, 223; in the Vienna
					
					
						Alexander I, 201, 218, 236, 432 sqq.
						settlement, 230 sqq.; and the
					
					
						Alexander II, 436 sqq.
						Revolution of 1848, 296 sqq.;
					
					
						Alexander III, 440 sq.
						and the conflict with Germany,
					
					
						Alfonso XII, 332 note
						327 sqq.; since 1866, 334 sqq.
					
					
						Alfonso XIII, 332 note
						Austrian Succession, 63 sqq.
					
					
						Algeciras, 497
						Austro-Hungarian Union, 335 sq.
					
					
						Algeria, 377
						
					
					
						Alsace, 22, 358
						Baber, 75
					
					
						Amadeus, 332 note
						Barbœuf, 284
					
					
						Amiens, Treaty of, 188; rupture
						Bacon, Francis, 23
					
					
						of, 200
						Bacon, Roger,22
					
					
						Amoy, 477
						Baden, 191, 203, 229. 330, 334
					
					
						Anam, 379
						Baker, Sir Samuel, 493
					
					
						Ancien regime, 87
						Balaklava, 458
					
					
						Anglican Church, 15 sqq., 396; in
						Balkan peninsula, 459 sqq.
					
					
						Ireland, 406 sq.
						Baluchistan, 414 note
					
					
						Angra Pequena, 349
						Baptists, 18
					
					
						Anne, Queen, 48 sq.
						Basel, Treaty of, 171
					
					
						Anti-clericalism, 369 sq.
						Bastille, 118 sq.
					
					
						Apprenticeship, 6
						Batavian republic, 171, 185
					
					
						Arbitration, international, 503 sq.,
						Bavaria, 191, 203, 229, 330, 334
					
					
						533
						Beaconsfield. See Disraeli
					
					
						Arcole, 174
						Beaucharnais, Madame Josephine,
					
					
						Arkwright, 263
						170
					
					
						Artois, count of. See Charles X
						Beccaria, 34
					
					
						Aspern, 215
						Bechuanaland, 429
					
					
						Assignats, 128, 165, 193
						Belgium, 228 note, 247 sq., 496 sq.
					
					
						Associations, law, 370
						Bengal, 76
					

					

					
						Berlin, Congress of, 460, 495
						Caroline Islands, 500
					
					
						Berlin Decree, 207
						Cartwright, 264
					
					
						Bernadotte, 230
						Catechism, the imperial, in France,
					
					
						Bessarabia, 455
						211; in Russia, 436 note
					
					
						Bismarck, 325 sqq., 344 sqq.
						Catharine II, 41 sqq., 67, 69, 152
					
					
						Blanc, Louis, 285 sqq.
						Catholic Church, 12 sqq. See
					
					
						Bloc, the, 368
						Church
					
					
						Blockade, the Continental, 207 sqq.
						Catholic Emancipation, 396
					
					
						Blücher, 222, 224
						Catholics in England, 16 sqq., 396;
					
					
						Board of Foreign Missions, 475
						in Ireland, 407. See Church
					
					
						Boer War, 428
						Cavour, 313 sqq.
					
					
						Boers, 425 sqq.
						Censorchip of the press, 14, 395
					
					
						Bohemia, 298 sqq.
						Chambord, count of, 361
					
					
						Bokhara, 442 note
						Champs de Mars, 137
					
					
						Bonaparte, Jerome, 206
						Chancellor, the German, 342
					
					
						Bonaparte, Joseph, 204, 213
						Charles I, of England, 45 note
					
					
						Bonaparte, Louis. See Napoleon
						Charles II, of England, 45 note
					
					
						III
						Charles IV, of Spain, 213 note
					
					
						Bonaparte, Napoleon, 168 sqq. See
						Charles VII, Emperor, 64
					
					
						Napoleon I
						Charles X, of France, 243 sqq.
					
					
						Bonapartists, 243
						Charles XII, of Sweden, 57
					
					
						Bordeaux, 293
						Charles Albert, of Sardinia, 306
					
					
						Borodino, 219
						Charles, Edward, 45 note
					
					
						Bosnia, 460, 517
						Charter, the French constitutional,
					
					
						Boulanger, 366
						241 sq.
					
					
						Bourgoyne, 83
						Chartism, 386 sq.
					
					
						Boxer uprising, 486
						Chateaux burning of, 121
					
					
						Braddock, 77
						Child labor, 399 sqq.
					
					
						Brandenburg, 58 sqq.
						China, 476 sqq., 518
					
					
						Bright, John, 401
						Chino-Japanese war, 482 sq.
					
					
						Brumaire, the Eighteenth, 180
						Church in the eighteenth century,
					
					
						Brunswick, manifesto of the duke
						12 sqq.; in Austria, 43, 336, in
					
					
						of, 145
						England, 15 sqq., 396 sq.;
							in
					
					
						Budget, English (1909), 508 sq.
						France, 253, 396 sqq.; in Italy,
					
					
						Bulgaria, 461, 464, 517
						318
					
					
						Bülow, Prince, 513 sq.
						Churchill, Winston, 509, 526
					
					
						Bundesrath, 340 sq.
						Cisalpine republic, 175
					
					
						Burma, 414
						Civil constitution of the Clergy,
					
					
						
						128
					
					
						Cabinet, 390 sqq.
						Clergy. See Church
					
					
						Cahiers, 114
						Clement, The, 467
					
					
						Calendar, reform in the French,
						Clive, 77
					
					
						148 note
						Cobden, 403
					
					
						Calonne, 106, 134
						Cochin China, 379
					
					
						Campo Formio, 175
						Code Napoleon, 197
					
					
						Canada, 77, 418 sqq.
						Codes of Germany, 343
					
					
						Cape Colony, 425, 429
						Commerce, expansion of, 175 sqq.
					
					
						Capital and labor, 267 sqq.
						Committee of Public Safety, 153,
					
					
						Carbonari, 312
						157 sqq.
					
					
						Carlsbad, Resolutions of, 252
						Common Prayer, Book of, 15
					
					
						Carmagnole, 147
						Commons, House of. See Parliament
					
					
						Carnot, 156
						
					

					

					
						Commune, 120, 147 ; of 1871, 360
						Delegations, Autro-Hungarian,
					
					
						"Communist Manifesto," 278 sq.
						335
					
					
						Concordat of 1810, 195, 371
						De Lesseps, 469
					
					
						Confederation, the German, 249
						Delhi, 416 sq.
					
					
						sqq.
						Desaix, 187
					
					
						Confederation of the Rhine, 203,
						Desmoulins, 118, 156 sq., 159 sq.
					
					
						222
						Despotism, enlightened, 39 sqq.
					
					
						Congo, Belgian, 495
						D'Herbois, Callot, 157
					
					
						Congo, French, 378
						Diderot, 30 sq.
					
					
						Congregatio de propaganda fide, 474
						Direct action, 528 sq.
					
					
						Conservatives in England, 508 sq.
						Directory, 166, 171 sqq., 180
					
					
						Constantinople, fall of, 454
						Disarmament, 503
					
					
						Constitution, the Austro-Hungarian,
						Disraeli, 388. See Beaconsfield
					
					
						335 sq.; the English,
						Dissenters, 16 sqq., 396 sq.
					
					
						45 sqq., 381 sqq., 506 sqq.; the
						Division of labor, 269
					
					
						French, of 1791, 126 sq.; of the
						Dogger, Bank affair, 489, note
					
					
						Year III, 165 sq.; of 1814, 241;
						Domestic system, 267
					
					
						of 1848, 289; of 1875, 363; the
						Dowager Empress of China, 487
					
					
						German, 340 sq.; the Spanish,
						Dresden, 222
					
					
						332 note. See also Belgium,
						Dreyfus, 366 sq.
					
					
						Greece, and other minor countries
						Dual monarchy, 334 sqq.
					
					
						
						Duma, 499 sqq.
					
					
						Constitutional democrats, in Russia,
						Dumouriez, 143, 149, 152
					
					
						445
						Dupleix, 77
					
					
						Consulate, 180
						
					
					
						Continental Blockade, 207 sqq.
						East India Company, the English,
					
					
						Convention, the, 148 sqq.
						76 sqq., 417; the French, 76
					
					
						Cook, Captain, 422
						Eastern Roumelia, 461
					
					
						Cordeliers, 136
						Education, in England, 397; in
					
					
						Corn laws, 402 sq.
						France, 369
					
					
						Cornwallis, Lord, 83
						Edward VII, 511
					
					
						Corsica, 169
						Egypt. 498 sqq.
					
					
						Corvée, 104
						Elba, 224
					
					
						Crete, 463 note
						Elders, Council of, 165, 180
					
					
						Criminal law in England, 397 sq.
						Elector, the Great, 59
					
					
						Croatians (Croats), 298. See Austria
						Embargo act, 209
					
					
						Cuba, 500
						Emigration, Italian, 321 sqq.; Irish,
					
					
						Customs lines, in France, 90; in
						406
					
					
						Spain, 214; in Germany, 323 sqq.
						Émigres, 134, 141, 242
					
					
						See Zollverein
						Encyclopædia, the, 30 sq.
					
					
						Custozza, 306
						Engels, 277
					
					
						Czechs, 297. See Austria
						Enghien, duke of, 201
					
					
						
						England, the Revolution of 1688
					
					
						Dalhousie, 415
						in, 46; and the struggle for
					
					
						Danton, 136 sq., 147, 154, 159, 162
						India, 75 sqq.; in the conflict
					
					
						Dauphiny, 112
						for North America, 77 sq.; the
					
					
						Declaration of Right, the English,
						Church in, 15 sqq.; government
					
					
						46
						of, in the eighteenth century,
					
					
						Declaration of the Rights of Man,
						45 sqq.; at war with France,
					
					
						122 sqq.
						151 sqq.; Industrial Revolution
					
					
						Deists, 26
						in, 203 sqq.; political reforms
					
					
						De Launay, 119
						in, 381 sqq.; social reforms in,
					

					

					
						394 sqq.; expansion of, in the
						George II, 45 note, 49
					
					
						nineteenth century, 412 sqq.;
						George III, 45 note, 50, 82
					
					
						in Egypt, 498 sqq.
						German East Africa, 350
					
					
						Established Church, 15 sqq.
						German Southwest Africa, 350
					
					
						Estates General, 112
						Germany, in 1815, 249 sqq.; the
					
					
						
						Revolution of 1848 in, 296 sqq.;
					
					
						Fabian Society, 507
						formation of the Empire of,
					
					
						Factory reform in England, 400
						323 sqq.; since 1871, 340 sqq.
					
					
						Factory system, 267 sqq.
						See Holy Roman Empire and
					
					
						Fashoda, 378
						Prussia, Baden, Bavaria and
					
					
						February Revolution, 286
						Würtemberg
					
					
						Ferdinand VII, 253
						Ghent, Peace of, 223 note
					
					
						Feudalism, 2 sqq.
						Gibraltar, 430
					
					
						Finland, 444
						Girondists, 140, 153 sqq.
					
					
						Five Hundred, Council of, 165, 180
						Gladstone, 388sq.
					
					
						Fly-shuttle, 263
						Good Hope, 425 sq.
					
					
						Fort Duquesne, 77
						Gordon, Major Charles, 499
					
					
						Fourier, 276
						Great Britain. See England
					
					
						France, in wars of Frederick the
						Great Western, the, 468
					
					
						Great, 63 sqq.; in the contest for
						Greece, 455 sq., 463
					
					
						India, 75 sqq.; in the struggle
						Greek Church, 435
					
					
						for North America, 77 sqq.; on
						Guam, 500 note
					
					
						the eve of the Revolution, 87
						Guilds, 4 sqq.
					
					
						sqq.; the Revolution in, 108 sqq.;
						Guillotin, 158 note
					
					
						the first Republic of, 133 sqq.;
						Guizot, 285 sq.
					
					
						under Napoleon, 168 sqq.; after
						
					
					
						the Congress of Vienna, 241
						Haakon VII, 231 note
					
					
						sqq.; the Industrial Revolution
						Habeas Corpus, 47
					
					
						in, 267; the Revolution of 1848
						Hague Conference, 503
					
					
						III, 291 sqq.; and the war with
						Hanoverian line, 45 note
					
					
						Prussia, 330 sqq.; under the
						Hapsburg. See Austria
					
					
						Third Republic, 356 sqq.
						Hardenberg, 220
					
					
						Francis II, 186, 204, 217
						Hardie, Keir, 507
					
					
						Francis Joseph, 304
						Hardie, Keir, 507
					
					
						Franco-Prussian War, 330 sqq.
						Hébert, 260
					
					
						Frankfort, Treaty of, 358
						Helvetic Republic, 184
					
					
						Frankfort National Assembly,
						Henry V, 361
					
					
						307 sq.
						Herzegovina, 460, 517, 530
					
					
						Frederick III, 350 note
						Hesse-Cassel, 328
					
					
						Frederick the Great, 39 sqq., 62 sqq.
						Hindustan, 75 sq.
					
					
						Frederick William, Elector of
						Hohenlinden, 187
					
					
						Brandenburg, 59
						Hohenzollern, origin of House of,
					
					
						Free trade in England, 402 sqq.
						59
					
					
						French and Indian Wat, 77
						Holland, 228, 248
					
					
						Fuchau, 477
						Holy Alliance, 236 sqq.
					
					
						Fulton, 467
						Holy Roman Empire, 188 sqq.
					
					
						
						203 sq.
					
					
						Gambetta, 357
						Home Rule, 408 sqq.
					
					
						Garibaldi, 315 sq.
						Hongkong, 477
					
					
						George, David Lloyd, 508 sq.
						Humbert I, 321
					
					
						George I, 45 note, 49
						Hungary. See Austria
					

					

					
						Imperialism, 473
						Kruger, 428
					
					
						Indemnity of French nobles, 244
						Kulturkampf, 344
					
					
						Independence, Declaration of, 82
						Kuropatkin, General, 489
					
					
						Independent Labor party, 507
						
					
					
						India, 75 sqq., 412 sqq.
						Labor and Capital, 271 sqq.
					
					
						Industrial Revolution, 261 sqq.
						Labor Representation Committee
					
					
						Inquisition, 253
						507
					
					
						Insurance, for working class, in
						Lafayette, 83, 131, 156, 245
					
					
						Germany, 347; in England, 525
						La Harpe, 149
					
					
						sqq.; in France, 527
						Laibach, Congress of, 257
					
					
						Interpellation, 376
						Land question in Ireland, 405 hi
					
					
						Intolerance, 13 sqq.
						Laos, 379
					
					
						Ireland, 405 sqq.
						Lasalle, Ferdinand, 345
					
					
						Isabella, 332 and note
						Laurier, Sir Wilfrid, 421
					
					
						Italy, in the eighteenth century,
						Legion of Honor, 211
					
					
						172 sqq.; after 1815, 253 sq.;
						Legislative Assembly, 126, 130
					
					
						and the Revolution of 1848,
						137, 147
					
					
						299 sqq.; unity of established,
						Legitimists, 283, 361
					
					
						311 sqq.; war with Turkey, 532.
						Leipzig, battle of, 223
					
					
						See also Sardinia, Piedmont,
						Leo XIII, 369, 524
					
					
						Tuscany, Naples, and Rome
						Leoben, truce of, 175
					
					
						
						Leopold of Hohenzollern, 331 sq.
					
					
						James II, 45 note
						Leopold II, of Belgium, 248 note,
					
					
						Jameson's raid, 428
						495
					
					
						Jamestown, 74
						Leopold II, Emperor, 134, 138
					
					
						Japan, 478 sqq.
						Lettres de cachet, 80, 97
					
					
						Jemappes, 150
						Leuthen, battle of, 65
					
					
						Jena, 205
						Liberal Unionists, 410
					
					
						Jews, in Poland, 66; in Russia,
						Liberals in England, 508 sqq.
					
					
						445
						Liberum veto, 66
					
					
						Josephine, 170, 216
						Livingstone, 493
					
					
						Jourdan, 156, 172, 175, 185
						Locke, John, 27 and note
					
					
						July monarchy, 283
						Locomotive, 469 sq.
					
					
						July ordinances, 244
						Lombardo-Venetia, 230, 299, 315
					
					
						June days, the terrible, 289
						317
					
					
						
						Lombardy, 173, 230, 315
					
					
						Kamerun, 349, 495
						Loom, 264
					
					
						Capital, Das, 278
						Lords, House of, in England, 393,
					
					
						Karageorgevitch, 464
						511 sq.
					
					
						Kay, 263
						Lorraine, 333
					
					
						Ketteler, Baron von, 486
						Louis XV, 85
					
					
						Khiva, 442 note
						Louis XVI, 101 sqq., 135 sqq.,
					
					
						Kiauchau, 483
						150 sqq.
					
					
						Kitchener, General, 499
						Louis XVII, 228 note
					
					
						Kokand, 442 note
						Louis XVIII, 231, 241 sqq.
					
					
						Königgrätz, 328
						Louis Napoleon, 290. See
					
					
						Korea, 482, 488, 490 note
						Napoleon III
					
					
						Kosciusco, 70
						Louis Philippe, 245 sqq., 283 sqq.
					
					
						Kossuth, 299
						Lucknow, 416
					
					
						Kotzebue, 251
						Lüderitz, 349
					

					

					
						Lunéville, Treaty of, 188
						Modena, 172, 229, 315
					
					
						Lusitania, 468
						Mogul, the Great, 76, 417
					
					
						Lützen, 222
						Mohammedans, 491
					
					
						Luxemburg, grand duchy of, 248
						Moldavia, 457, 460
					
					
						note
						Monastic orders in Austria, 43; in
					
					
						
						France 127, 370; in Italy, 253;
					
					
						Macao, 476
						in Spain, 214; in Germany, 344
					
					
						Macedonia, 461
						Moniteur, 139
					
					
						Mack, 202
						Monroe Doctrine, 258
					
					
						MacMahon, 361 sq.
						Montenegro, 464
					
					
						Madagascar, 378
						Montesquieu, 32
					
					
						Madras, 76
						Moreau, 172, 175, 187
					
					
						Magyars, 298, 304, 337
						Morocco, 497
					
					
						Mahratta Confederacy, 413
						Mountain, the, 154
					
					
						Majuba Hill, 427
						Mukden, 489
					
					
						Mamelukes, 498
						Murat, 213 note
					
					
						Manchu dynasty, 518 and note
						Mutiny in India, 415 sq.
					
					
						Manchuria, 483, 488, 490
						Mutsuhito, 480
					
					
						Manor, 2 sqq.
						
					
					
						Mantua, 173 sqq.
						Nanking, Treaty of, 477
					
					
						Manufacture, modern. See
						Naples, 172, 204, 213 note, 254,
					
					
						Industrial Revolution
						257, 316
					
					
						Marat, 121 note, 125, 136 sq.
						Napoleon I, 197 sqq. See
					
					
						Marconi, 472
						Bonaparte, Napoleon
					
					
						Marengo, 187
						Napoleon II, 243
					
					
						Maria Louisa, 216, 230
						Napoleon III, 290 sqq., 314, 316
					
					
						Maria Theresa, 62 sqq.
						330, 457
					
					
						Marie Antoinette, 102, 124 sq., 159
						Napoleonic Ideas. 290
					
					
						Marseillaise, the, 146
						Nassau, 329
					
					
						Marseilles, 155
						Natal, 426, 429
					
					
						Marx, Karl, 277 sqq.
						National Assembly (1789), 116 sqq.
					
					
						Maximilian, 320 note
						Nationality, spirit of, 235 sqq.
					
					
						Maximum, law of the, 165
						Navarino, 457
					
					
						Mazzini, 312
						Navigation Acts, 80
					
					
						Meerut, 416
						Necker, 106, 118
					
					
						Mehemet Ali, 498
						Nelson, 179, 207
					
					
						Mercantilism, 36
						Netherlands, Austrian, 149, 228
					
					
						Methodists, 17
						Netherlands, Dutch, 151, 171, 228
					
					
						Metternich, 223, 237 sqq., 257, 259,
						248
					
					
						296
						New Brunswick, 419
					
					
						Metz, 333
						New Guinea, 350 note
					
					
						Mexico, 256, 330 note
						New South Wales, 422
					
					
						Mikado, 478
						New Zealand, 421, 423 sq.
					
					
						Milan, 172 sq.
						Newfoundland, 420
					
					
						Milan I, 463
						Nice, 314
					
					
						Milan Decree, 208
						Nicholas I, 434 sq.
					
					
						Military expenditures, 501 sq.
						Nicholas II, 443 sqq.
					
					
						Millerand, 375
						Nihilism, 138
					
					
						Ministerial responsibility, in
						Nile, battle of, 179
					
					
						England, 390 sqq.; in Germany, 513
						Nobility, 8 sqq., 93 sq., 121
					
					
						Mirabeau, 117, 125 sq., 136
						Nogi, General, 489
					
					
						Missionaries, 473 sqq.
						Nonjuring clergy, 130-141
					

					

					
						North German Confederation,
						Pillnitz, Declaration of, 138
					
					
						327 sqq.
						Pitt, The Younger, 151
					
					
						Notables, Assembly of, 108 sq.
						Plassey, battle of, 78
					
					
						Nova Scotia, 419
						Plehve, 445, 447
					
					
						Novara, 306
						Poland, 66 sqq., 232, 435 and note
					
					
						
						Political economy, 35 sqq., 273 sqq.
					
					
						Obock, 378 note
						Poniatowski, 67
					
					
						Oku, General, 488
						in Italy, 317
					
					
						Old-age pensions, in Germany, 347;
						Port Arthur, 483, 489
					
					
						in England, 525; in France, 527
						Porto Rico, 500
					
					
						Old Sarum, 382
						Portsmouth, Treaty of, 490
					
					
						Ontario, 419
						Portugal, 212, 259, 515
					
					
						Opium war, 477
						Poverty, 274, 509, 522 sqq.
					
					
						Orange River Colony, 426 sqq.
						Press, freedom of, in France, 365;
					
					
						Organic articles, 196 note
						in England, 395
					
					
						Organization of Labor, The, 285
						Pressburg, Treaty of, 203
					
					
						Orleanists, 361
						Prison reform, 398
					
					
						Ottoman Turks, 454
						Protective tariff in Germany,
					
					
						Owen, Robert, 276
						348 sqq.
					
					
						
						Prussia, 58 sqq., 144, 149, 171, 201,
					
					
						Pale, the, 405
						205 sq., 223 sqq., 301 sqq., 307,
					
					
						Panama Canal, 468
						317, 323 sqq.
					
					
						Pankhurst, Mrs., 521
						Public schools. See Education
					
					
						Papal States, 216, 229, 254
						Pultowa, 57
					
					
						Paris, count of, 361
						Punjab, 414
					
					
						Paris, siege of, 357
						Pyramids, battle of, 179
					
					
						Paris, Treaty of (1763), 65, 78;
						
					
					
						(1856), 458
						Quadrilateral, 305
					
					
						Parkes, Sir Harry, 480
						Quadruple alliance, 238
					
					
						Parlements, in France, 98 sq.,
						Quebec, 419
					
					
						111 sq.
						Quebec Act, 418
					
					
						Parliament, in England, 45 sqq.,
						Queensland, 423
					
					
						381 sqq., 511 sqq. See
							Constitution
						
					
					
						Parma, 172, 191, 315
						Railways, 469 sqq.
					
					
						Parnell, 408
						Reason, worship of, 160
					
					
						Parthenopian Republic, 185
						Reform Bills, in England, 384 sqq.
					
					
						Parties, in England, 49,394, 506 sqq.;
						Reichsdeputationshauptschluss, 190,
					
					
						in France, 374; in Germany, 344,
						229
					
					
						515 ; in Russia, 445 sqq.
						Reichstadt, duke of, 243 note
					
					
						Peace movement, 501 sqq.
						Reichstag, 341
					
					
						Peel, Sir Robert, 404
						Reign of Terror, 148 sqq.
					
					
						Peking, 486
						Religious toleration in England,
					
					
						Penny post, 471
						396 sq.
					
					
						Perry, Commodore, 479
						Revolutionary Tribunal, 158
					
					
						Persia, 518 note
						Rhodes, Cecil, 428
					
					
						Peter the Great, 55 sqq.
						Rhodesia, 429
					
					
						Peterloo massacre, 384
						Robespierre, 154, 160 sqq.
					
					
						Philippines, 500
						Roland, Madame, 142
					
					
						Pichegru, 171
						Romagna, 315
					
					
						Piedmont, 185, 229
						Roman Republic, 306
					

					

					
						Rome, union with Italy, 317
						Silesia, 63 sq.
					
					
						Rossbach, battle of, 65
						Sindh, 414
					
					
						Rotten boroughs, 381 sqq.
						Slave trade, 234
					
					
						Roumania, 460 note
						Smith, Adam, 269
					
					
						Roumelia, Eastern, 461
						Sobieski, John, 455
					
					
						Rousseau, 33 sq.
						Social Contract, The, 33
					
					
						Russell, Lord John, 384, 388
						Social Democratic Federation, 507
					
					
						Russia, made a European power
						Social democrats in Germany,
					
					
						under Peter the Great, 53 sqq.;
						345 sqq.; in Russia, 446
					
					
						and the partition of Poland,
						Socialism, 275 sqq., 528 sq.; in
					
					
						66 sqq.; at war with France,
						England, 507; in France, 284
					
					
						183 sqq.; in the Vienna settlement,
						374 sq.; in Germany, 344 sqq,,
					
					
						231 sqq.; in the nineteenth
						352; in Italy, 320; in Russia, 446
					
					
						century, 432 sqq.; and
						Society for Promotion of Christian
					
					
						Russo-Japanese War, 488 sqq.
						Solomon Islands, 350 note
					
					
						
						Somaliland, French, 495 note;
					
					
						
						Italian, 597
					
					
						St. Bernard, Bonaparte's crossing
						Sonderbund, 297 note
					
					
						of the, 186
						South Africa, 425 sqq.
					
					
						St. Helena, 225
						South African Union, 429
					
					
						Saint-Just, 154, 160 sqq.
						South Hesse, 334
					
					
						Salt tax in France, 91
						Speech, freedom of, 365, 396
					
					
						San Stefano, 460
						Spinning, 263
					
					
						Sand River Convention, 426
						Spirit of Laws, The, 32
					
					
						Sans-culottes, 144
						Stamp Act, 79 sq.
					
					
						Sardinia, 172, 230,305,306,313,315
						Stanley, Henry M., 493 sq.
					
					
						Savoy, 314
						State socialism, 346
					
					
						Saxony, 222, 231, 329, 341 note
						Steam engine, 264 sqq.
					
					
						Scharnhorst, 221
						Steamship, 467
					
					
						Schleswig-Holstein, 326 sqq.
						Stein, 220
					
					
						Schwartzenberg, 304
						Stephenson, George, 469
					
					
						Sebastopol, 457
						Stockach, 185
					
					
						Second French Republic, 286 sqq.
						Stolypin, 451, 519
					
					
						Sedan, 333
						Strassburg, 356
					
					
						Senegal, 377
						Sudan, 499
					
					
						Separation law, 372
						Suez Canal, 468
					
					
						Sepoys, 415
						Suffrage in Austria, 337; in France
					
					
						September massacres, 149
						126, 165, 292, 364; in England,
					
					
						Serfdom, 2 sqq., 121, 221, 436 sqq.
						382 sqq.; in Germany, 341. See
					
					
						See Feudalism
						Reform Bills and Constitution
					
					
						Servia, 455, 463
						Suvaroff, 185
					
					
						Seven Years' War, 64
						Sweden, 230 note
					
					
						Shanghai, 477
						Switzerland, 230, 297 note
					
					
						Shantung peninsula, 483
						Sydney, 422
					
					
						Shimonoseki, 482
						Syllabus of 1864, 368
					
					
						Shogun, 478 sqq.
						Syndicalism 529
					
					
						Sicily. See Naples
						Syria, Bonaparte in, 179
					
					
						Sickness insurance, in Germany,
						
					
					
						347; in England, 527
						Taille, 96, 108 sq.
					
					
						Sieyes, 113, 116
						Talleyrand, 190, 198, 231
					

					

					
						Tasmania, 422
						Victor Emmanuel II, 306, 319
					
					
						Telegraphs, 472
						Victor Emmanuel III, 321
					
					
						Test Act, 18
						Vienna, Congress of, 227 sqq.
					
					
						Thermidor, 162
						Voltaire, 27 sqq.
					
					
						Thiers, 285, 357 sqq.
						
					
					
						Third Estate, 94, 114
						Wagram, 331
					
					
						Thirty-Nine Articles, 16
						Wallachia, 457, 460 note
					
					
						Thugut, 185
						Salpole, 49
					
					
						Ticonderoga, 77
						War if 1812, 223 note
					
					
						Tilsit, Treaty of, 106 sqq.
						Warfare, modern, 501
					
					
						Tithes, in France, 122; in Ireland,
						Warsaw, grand duchy of, 206, 232
					
					
						Togo, Admiral, 489
						Washington, 83
					
					
						Togoland, 349
						Waterloo, 224
					
					
						Toleration, Act of, 18
						Watt, 265
					
					
						Tonkin, 379
						Wattignies, 156
					
					
						Tories, 389
						Wealth of Nations, The, 269
					
					
						Torres Vedras, 218
						Weaving, 263 sqq.
					
					
						Toulon, 156 sq.
						Weihaiwei, 484
					
					
						Trade boards, 526
						Wellington, 218, 223 sq., 384
					
					
						Trade laws, 80
						Wesley, John, 17
					
					
						Trade unions, 523
						West Australia, 423
					
					
						Trafalgar, 207
						Westphalia, kingdom of, 206
					
					
						Trans-Siberian railway, 443
						Whigs, 49
					
					
						Transvaal, 426 sqq.
						White flag, 263
					
					
						Treaty ports, 477
						Whitney, Eli, 264
					
					
						Tripoli, 319, 532
						Wilhelmina, 248 note
					
					
						Tuileries, 125, 144, 146
						William I, 324
					
					
						Tunis, 377
						William II, of Germany, 350
					
					
						Turgot, 1O2 sqq.
						William II, of the Netherlands,
					
					
						Turkestan, 442 note
						248 note
					
					
						Turkey, 454 sqq., 516 sq., 532
						William III, of the Netherlands,
					
					
						Tuscany, 172, 229, 315
						248 note
					
					
						
						Windischgrätz, 303
					
					
						Uitlanders, 427
						Wolfe, General, 77
					
					
						Ulm, 202
						Woman, suffrage, 520
					
					
						Ultra-royalists, 242
						Woman's rights, 519
					
					
						Utopian socialists, 275
						Workshops, the national, 285 sqq.
					
					
						
						Wurmser, 174
					
					
						Valenciennes, 156
						Würtemberg, 203, 229, 333
					
					
						Valmy, 149
						
					
					
						Varennes, flight to, 135
						Xavier, 479
					
					
						Vendée, La, 155, 157
						
					
					
						Vendémiaire, 166 note
						Yorck, 222
					
					
						Venetia, 172, 175, 317
						Yorktown, 83
					
					
						Venice. See Venetia
						Young Italy, 312
					
					
						Vergniaud, 142, 147
						
					
					
						Verona, Congress of, 257
						Zola, 367
					
					
						Victor Emmanuel I, 254
						Zollverein, 252, 324
					
				
			

			
				
				

				ANNOUNCEMENTS

				
				

				
				OUTLINES OF EUROPEAN HISTORY By JAMES HARVEY ROBINSON, Columbia University, CHARLES A. BEARD, Columbia University, and JAMES HENRY BREASTED, The University of
					Chicago

				PART I, $1.50 PART II,
					$1.50

				THIS new series of textbooks offers the most noteworthy solution of
					the present-day high-school history problem yet attempted. With the two volumes of "
					Outlines of European History" in hand the teacher can cover general European history,
					beginning with ancient history, satisfactorily in two years, leaving the third year for
					American history. Moreover, the series is fully in accord with the new spirit in the
					teaching of history. Emphasis throughout is placed on conditions and institutions rather
					than on unrelated events, while by devoting Part II to the history of the last two hundred
					years, the course directs the pupil's attention especially to the problems and
					developments that are of present-day import. In short, both volumes of "Outlines of
					European History" are designed primarily to furnish the pupil the needed background for
					the intelligent interpretation of contemporary events.

				The authors' reputation for sound scholarship and historical insight is
					international,while their style has an incisiveness and an imaginative freshness that make
					as attractive reading for the high-school pupil as any romance. The success of previous
					textbooks by the same authors is guaranty of the teachability of these new texts and of
					their entire fitness at every point for class use.

				PART I 728 pages By JAMES HARVEY
						ROBINSON and JAMES HENRY BREASTED

				THIS volume covers oriental, classical, and medieval history to the
					beginning of the eighteenth century, setting forth vividly those fundamental notions most
					essential to an understanding of subsequent developments. In style, in illustration, in
					organization, this book sets a new standard of achievement for high-school histories. The
					abundance and excellence of the illustrations are particularly notable. These, with their
					detailed legends, form a sort of parallel narrative of immense value to a proper
					understanding of the text. Several full-page illustrations in color and a number of "pen
					etchings," designed especially for this volume, add to the artistic excellence.

				PART II 555 pages By JAMES HARVEY ROBINSON and CHARLES A. BEARD

				THIS volume offers an illuminating treatment of European history from
					the eighteenth century to the present time. It includes the best and most comprehensive
					treatment of European developments of the first decade of the twentieth century available
					in any high-school history. The text is a rewriting and condensation for high schools of
					the authors' two-volume "Development of Modern Europe," the standard college text in the
					subject.

				
				104

				GINN AND COMPANY PUBLISHERS

				

				

				THE DEVELOPMENT OF MODERN EUROPE

				An Introduction to the Study of Current History

				By JAMES HARVEY ROBINSON, Professor of History in Columbia University, and Charles A. Beard,
					Adjunct Professor of Politics in Columbia University

				

				VOLUME I. The Eighteenth Century: The French Revolution and the
					Napoleonic Period. 12mo. Cloth. 362 pages. With illustrations and maps. $1.50.

				VOLUME II. Europe since the Congress of Vienna. 12mo. Cloth. 448 pages.
					With illustrations and maps. $1.60.

				

				THESE volumes will meet the demand for a history of recent times which
					shall explain the social and economic as well as the political development of our own age,
					and shall also prepare the student to understand the great problems of the world in which
					he finds himself.

				Their aim is to correct the general disregard of recent history,-- to enable the student
					to catch up with his own times so that he may peruse with intelligence the news given in
					the morning paper.

				Much less space is devoted to purely political and military events than has been commonly
					assigned to them in histories of the nineteenth century. On the other hand, the more
					fundamental economic matters-- the Industrial Revolution, commerce and the colonies, the
					internal reforms of the European states, etc.-- have been generously treated.

				The necessarily succinct outline of events which fills the books can be considerably
					amplified and enlivened by "Readings in Modern European History" from the same authors,
					which follows the narrative chapter by chapter, and furnishes examples of the stuff of
					which history is made.

				

				>GINN & COMPANY PUBLISHERS

				

				

				READINGS IN MODERN EUROPEAN HISTORY

				A collection of extracts from sources chosen with the purpose of
					illustrating some of the chief phases of the development of Europe during the last two
					hundred years

				By JAMES HARVEY ROBINSON,
					Professor of History, and CHARLES A. BEARD,
					Adjunct Professor of Politics, in Columbia University

				

				Volume I. The Eighteenth Century: The French Revolution and the Napoleonic
					Period. 12mo, cloth, illustrated, 410 pages, $1.40

				Volume II. Europe since the Congress of Vienna. 12mo, cloth, illustrated, 448 pages,
					$1.50

				

				"READINGS IN MODERN EUROPEAN HISTORY" aims to stimulate the student to
					real thought and interest in his work by bringing him right to the sources of historical
					knowledge and enabling him to see the very words of those who, writing when the past was
					present, can carry him back to themselves and make their times his own. In this way the
					book offers the proper background and atmosphere for " The Development of Modern Europe,"
					by the same authors, which it accompanies chapter by chapter and section by section.

				Bibliographies provided in the Appendix start the student on the path to a really
					thorough study of the field.

				A goodly number of the readings in this volume are of the constitutional kind which
						merit and richly reward careful study. A still larger number are of the interesting and
						lively kind which charm and entertain, and which are valuable because they give the
						flavor of the olden times. The bibliography is no mere list of unappreciated titles, but
						an excellent critical classification which guides the student quickly on to the
						fundamental works.-- SIDNEY B. FAY, Assistant Professor of History, Dartmouth College, in The American
							Historical Review.

				
				103

				GINN AND COMPANY PUBLISHERS

				

				

				INTRODUCTION TO THE HISTORY OF WESTERN EUROPE

				By JAMES HARVEY ROBINSON, Professor of History in Columbia University

				THE ONE-VOLUME EDITION

				12mo, cloth, 714 pages, with maps and illustrations, $1.60

				THE TWO-VOLUME EDITION

				VOLUME I. 12mo, cloth, 368 pages, with maps and illustrations, $1.00

				VOLUME II. 12mo, cloth, 364 pages, with maps and illustrations, $1.00

				THE material of this new history has been prepared to meet the
					requirements of the modern trained teacher. By omitting all isolated events and
					unimportant facts, space has been obtained for an unusually full discussion of European
					institutions and important historical characters.

				Not only the political but also the economic, intellectual, and artistic achievements of
					the past form an integral part of the narrative.

				The text is thoroughly scholarly and trustworthy, since it is based upon the best
					European authorities of the day, or upon a personal investigation of primary sources.

				

				ROBINSON'S READINGS IN EUROPEAN HISTORY

				Designed to Supplement "Introduction to the History of Western Europe"

				Volume I. 12mo, cloth, xxxi+551 pages, $1.5
					Volume II. xxxii+628 pages, $1.50

				ABRIDGED EDITION. 12mo, cloth, xxxiv+573 pages, $1.50

				CHRONICLES, memoirs, letters, etc., selected to make
					history seem real.

				Volume I corresponds to Chapters I-XXII of the author's "History of Western Europe," and
					closes with an account of the Italian cities during the Renaissance. Volume II begins with
					Europe at the opening of the sixteenth century. The abridged edition is intended
					especially for high schools.


				

				SYLLABUS FOR THE HISTORY OF WESTERN EUROPE

				By NORMAN MACLAREN TRENHOLME, Professor of History and of the Teaching of History in the University of
					Missouri

				With References and Review Questions

				Issued in a one-volume and in a two-volume edition

				ARRANGED to accompany Robinson's "History of Western Europe," or to
					correlate with " Readings in European History."

				

				111 1/2
				GINN AND COMPANY PUBLISHERS
			
		

	
