
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Blatchley, W. S. (Willis Stanley), 1859-1940.. Orthoptera of northeastern America. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2010).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAB8231
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		


			

			
				Frontispiece
				
					

						PLATE I
						

						TEXAN KATYDIDS, SCUDDERIA
								TEXENSIS S. & Z., ON A SEDGE.
						
						Male above, female below. (From a photograph of living specimens by Dr. J. L.
							Hancock, Lakeside, Mich.)

					
				

			


			

			
				
					ORTHOPTERA OF NORTHEASTERN
						AMERICA
					WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCE TO THE FAUNAS OF INDIANA AND
						FLORIDA
				

				By
					W. S. BLATCHLEY
					Author of "Gleanings from Nature," "The Coleoptera cf Indiana," "Woodland
						Idyls," "The Indiana Weed Book," etc., etc.
				

				

				
					"And a locust unto Mahomet said: "We are the army of the great God; we produce
						ninety-nine eggs; if the hundred were completed, we should consume the whole earth and
						all that is in it.'"
					-Armênio Guedes (Mucugê, 30 de maio de 1918) é um jornalista e militante comunista brasileiro.
						
						Armênio veio de uma familia de comunistas. Foi secretário de Luís Carlos Prestes, com teve uma relação de admiração tensa, e estava com ele quando este recebeu a noticia da morte de Olga Benário.
						
						Em 30 de março de 2012, recebeu o título de Cidadão Paulistano, oferecido pela Câmara Municipal de São Paulo, através do proponente da homenagem, vereador Eliseu Gabriel.[1]
						--Arab Legend.
				

				
					1920
					The Nature Publishing Company
					INDIANAPOLIS
				
			



			


			
				Verso
				
					 "The land is as the garden of Eden before them, and behind them a desolate wilderness;
						yea, and nothing shall escape them."
					--Joel, II, 3.
				

				
					
						"Chiefs, who no more in bloody fight engage,
						But wise through time and narrative with age,
						In summer days like grasshoppers rejoice,
						A bloodless race, that sends a feeble voice."--Homer.
					
				


				Copyright, 1920 BY W. S. BLATCHLEY.

				

				
					
						"Green little vaulter, in the sunny grass,
						Catching your heart up at the feel of June,
						Sole noise that's heard amid the lazy noon,
						When even the bees lag at the summoning brass."--Leigh
							Hunt.
					
				

				
					
						"Crowds of bees are giddy with clover,
						Crowds of grasshoppers skip at our feet,
						Crowds of larks at their matins hang over,
						Thanking the Lord for a life so sweet."--Jean Ingelow.
					
				
			



			

			

				INTRODUCTION.

				There has long been need of a single comprehensive manual on the Orthoptera of the
					Eastern United States. The original descriptions and information regarding the
					distribution and habits of these interesting insects are scattered through scores of books
					and pamphlets which the student has to consult in order to correctly determine the various
					species which he may collect or have at hand. Many of these works are out of print or very
					difficult to obtain. For that reason the beginner is often discouraged at the very start
					and the study of Orthoptera has, therefore, not kept pace with that of other orders of
					insects whose literature is more available.
				The present work has been prepared to supply the need above mentioned. It is an outgrowth
					or expansion of my "Orthoptera of Indiana" issued in 1903 and long since out of print. In
					that work 148 species were described and keys given for their determination. Since its
					issue the researches of Rehn and Hebard, Caudell, Morse, Hancock, Walker, Davis and other
					special students of United States Orthoptera have brought about numerous changes in the
					nomenclature of the group and have added many new forms to the known fauna of our country.
					The great majority of Orthoptera inhabiting the United States east of the Mississippi
					River and Canada east of the 90th Meridian (the territory covered by this work) are now
					known. The nomenclature--always flexible and in the end largely dependent upon the
					view-point of the student--is fairly well established. The time is, therefore, deemed
					propitious for the appearance of such a work and it is offered as the best that I can
					accomplish with the facilities at my command.
				In the preparation of this manual I have ever had in mind the needs of the tyro and not
					those of the specialist in Orthoptera, the primary object in view being a simple work
					which would enable beginners in the most direct way possible to determine the scientific
					names and arrange and classify the Orthoptera in their collections. As far as possible
					easily understood words and terms have been used in the keys and descriptions, and many of
					the subdivisions adopted by other authors have been omitted in order to render the work
					less technical and more easily followed. Keys to families, subfamilies, tribes, genera and
					species have been made an important feature of the work. These keys are based on the more
					salient or easily recognized characters separating the 
					divisions to which they pertain. In most instances, to avoid repetition and save space,
					these characters are not re-mentioned in the descriptions which follow, and the keys
					should therefore always be used in connection with the descriptions.
					Moreover, it should be remembered that the characters used and statements made both in
					keys and descriptions are to be considered as applying only to those species occurring in
					the territory covered by this work. They may be, and in general are, capable of much wider
					application but it is not safe to assume that such is the case.
				Following the description of each species are notes on its distribution, food habits,
					song, etc. The general range or area of distribution given is based not only on my
					personal collecting in Indiana and Florida, but also on the specimens which have been
					examined in other cabinets and on the published local lists and other works cited in the
					Bibliography as well as manuscript lists furnished by several persons. The synonymy of
					many species is, however, so involved that the range as given, especially where it extends
					beyond our territory, is to be considered as open to correction. The dates of occurrence
					as given are usually the earliest and latest at which the species has been noted in the
					locality cited and do not therefore necessarily show the actual time of its appearance or
					disappearance.
				Of the 353 species and 58 varieties of Orthoptera recognized or recorded as inhabiting
					the territory covered I have been able to examine personally the types, or undoubted
					correctly identified paratypes, of all but five.1The great majority of the species treated are represented in my
					own collection. The source of the specimens at hand as I wrote the descriptions is usually
					given in the notes following each description. Thus "Lakehurst, N. Jer. (Davis)" means that the specimens at hand were taken at Lakehurst and loaned or
					presented to me by W. T. Davis; while "Ormond and Dunedin, Fla. (W. S.
						B.)" signifies that the specimens examined were taken by myself at the localities
					mentioned. After preparing the greater part of the text I visited Cambridge and Wellesley,
					Mass., Staten Island, N. Y. and Philadelphia, Pa., to examine the species not previously
					seen and to study the types and other specimens in the Scudder, Morse, Davis and
					Philadelphia collections. These contain the great majority of all the types of the United
					States species. Other cotypes or paratypes from 1These are Phyllovates chlorophæa Blanch., a
						mantid of doubtful occurrence in the Southern States; Heteronemia
							lævissimus, and H. texanus Brunner, two phasmids of doubtful
						status; Belocephalus excavatus Davis, the unique type of which is in
						the American Museum of Natural History, which Institution I did not find opportunity to
						visit, and Ceuthophilus scabripes (Hald.), a camel cricket, the type
						of which is lost and the status therefore doubtful.
					 the U. S. National Museum collection at Washington were
					kindly loaned me from time to time by A. N. Caudell. The native and introduced and
					established species are numbered consecutively throughout the work, while those included
					but un-numbered represent adventive forms which have occasionally been taken within our
					bounds but which are as yet not known to breed and live throughout the year in any one
					locality.
				CLASSIFICATION.--The classification followed in this work is not that
					of any one previous author, and may therefore not meet with the full approval of the
					up-to-date specialists in Orthoptera. In the names which I have adopted for the higher
					groups, I have not always followed "The Entomological Code"2 nor the rulings of the International Commission of Zoological
					Nomenclature. There has been in recent years, too much of a tendency to split hairs, to
					divide and subdivide the old well known groups into an infinite number of minor ones which
					lead nowhere in particular and only serve to confuse the beginner. The law of strict
						priority3 and its resultant
					ruling of basing the name of a subfamily or tribe upon the oldest generic name included
					are all right in the main, but when they lead up to two such similar names as Acridinae
					and Acrydiinae, confusion is sure to result, and priority should give way to simplicity.
					In such cases the names adopted by the more recent specialists are given in parenthesis
					and the student can use them if he so desires.
				As with the higher groups so with the' genera. I have not always adopted the generic
					names which have been proposed in recent years for certain of our species. A genus should
					be based on certain definite and fixed structures and once so founded all species then or
					thereafter assigned to that genus should possess those structures. Strictly speaking, a
					genus does not exist in nature but is only an artificial concept proposed by man to enable
					him the more readily to group his species. As to what really constitutes a set of generic
					characters there are about as many individual opinions as there are proposed or adopted
					genera. My reasons for rejecting or adopting certain questionable genera are usually set
					forth and the student can use his own judgment as to whether they are sound or not.

				2This code, prepared at
					Washington in 1912 by those two eminent American entomologists, Nathan Banks and A. N.
					Caudell, is, in the main, an excellent thing for beginners but a number of its rulings
					have not been adopted by some of the leading entomologists of the country.

				3If strict priority in the
					naming of the higher groups be insisted upon, the name Orthoptera
					itself, first used by Latreille in 1796 and later more definitely by Olivier in 1811,
					would have to give way to Dermaptera, the name proposed for the group by
					DeGeer in 1773, or to Ulonata, that proposed by Fabricius in
					1775.


				

				The subgenera and other minor groups of certain authors are not generally recognized in
					this work. In their place and solely to shorten and simplify the keys I have sometimes
					used "groups" or "series," usually without definite names, as they lead up more easily and
					with less confusion to the main object sought--the scientific name of the specimen in
					hand.
				SYNONYMY OF SPECIES.--As already noted the synonymy
					of many species of Orthoptera is greatly confused. This is due to several causes, chief
					among which are the following: a.--Variation in the length of tegmina and
						wings. These organs of flight often vary exceedingly in individuals of the same
					species, thus causing the insects to appear so different in general facies that both the
					long- and short-winged forms have been often described under different names: b.--Variation in color. Many of the first described species were based mainly upon
					color characters alone. As is well known, these are dependent largely upon local
					environment and are therefore usually unreliable in the fixing of species. Where the
					habitat is essentially the same throughout a large area the color is more stable and can
					then often be used as an important specific or varietal character; c.-Variation in the secondary genital organs, especially those of the male. The
					size and form of certain abdominal appendages, as the male furcula and cerci, the form of
					and degree of emargination of the subgenital and supra-anal plates, the length, form and
					armature of the ovipositor, have been much used in the past as distinguishing characters
					in the separation of species. In the majority of forms these organs are fairly stable and
					can be satisfactorily so used, but in some they vary greatly. This is especially true of
					the cerci of the male and too many races, varieties and even species have been founded
					upon slight differences in the structure of those organs; d.--Brief
						descriptions of the early known American species by European writers. A number of
					the more common American species of Orthoptera were first described, usually in two or
					three lines, by foreign authors who never saw the insects in the field, and knew nothing
					of their distribution, habitat or variations. These brief descriptions were sufficient to
					enable their authors to distinguish the species at hand from all others known to them, but
					are wholly inefficient when it comes to separating them from the large number of closely
					allied species now known. The types of many of the species described by DeGeer,
					Burmeister, Serville and even Saussure and Redtenbacher, are destroyed or inaccessible, so
					that it is often impossible to state what form  they had in
					hand. Much confusion in synonymy has therefore resulted by "guessing" at what they had, as
					each of our American authors has usually come to a different conclusion, and described or
					named his own species accordingly. Unless some easily distinguished or reliable character
					was given by the European author by which the American insect has been or is readily
					distinguished, or until a direct comparison with the type, if the latter is available, has
					been made by some competent Orthopterologist and the American conspecies thereby reliably
					determined, it is often better, in my opinion, to disregard these old European names and
					to adopt later ones of undoubted status.
				While the law of priority has been usually followed in the naming of the species in this
					work, there are some instances where the rulings leading up to it were technical, or, in
					my opinion, nonsensical, and I have therefore retained a better known name in preference
					to the one which, in accordance with strict priority, has been recently assigned by other
					authors. In such cases I have mentioned in the text or footnote my reasons for not
					adopting the proposed change in names.
				Throughout the work I have used trinominals to designate races, varieties, variants,
					subspecies, incipient species and sometimes even color varieties, usually noting which of
					these minor forms I consider the third name to represent. The name of the typical variety,
					if more than one exists, is not printed as a trinominal. I thus use Nomotettix cristatus (Scudder), not Nomotettix cristatus
						cristatus (Scudder). In many cases I have not recognized the so-called geographical
					races of recent authors. Where a well known species ranges over a large area, the
					different environments due to altitude, variation in mean annual temperature, atmospheric
					conditions, difference in topography, drainage and soils, varied food plants and many
					other causes, are sure to bring about certain changes in its external structure. If only
					the extremes of these variants be at hand they are often so different in appearance as to
					cause them to be considered races or even different species. However, where a large series
					from all parts of the range are present, intermediates are almost sure to be found and
					there is little use and often much resulting confusion in giving or recognizing a name for
					each slightly variable form.
				Where, in the original description, the specific name was placed by the author in a genus
					different from that to which it is now referred, the name of the author or its
					abbreviation is placed in parenthesis.


				

				The known synonyms of each species of Orthoptera belonging to our fauna are usually
					mentioned, in the notes following the description of that species. A list of these
					synonyms, arranged, alphabetically by both genera and species, with reference to the
					species to which each is now accredited and the page of its description, will be found
					just before the general index of this work.
				BIBLIOGRAPHY.--The bibliography near the end of this volume is not a
					complete list of the works pertaining to the Orthoptera of Northeastern America but
					contains only the names of those works to which especial reference has been made in the
					text, and a few additional ones which it was thought might at times be of use to the
					student of our fauna. In the bibliography the list of papers is arranged alphabetically by
					authors and each author's works chronologically by years. Where more than one paper by the
					same author appeared in any one year the letters a, b, c, etc. follow
					the year. Thus, a citation in the text to Davis (1912a, 124) will be found by reference to
					the bibliography to refer to page 124 of his paper entitled "Three New Species of
					Belocephalus from Florida," published in the Journal of the New York Entomological
					Society, Vol XX, pp. 122-125. After the name of each genus and each species, as recognized
					in this work, is given the name of the author with year and page number of the work where
					the genus was founded or the species originally described. Thus, Belocephalus
					sabalis Davis, 1912a, 123, refers to the original description of that species on
					page 123 of the paper above mentioned; while BELOCEPHALUS Scudder,
					1875, 458, means, as a reference to the bibliography will show, that the genus Belocephalus was founded by Scudder on page 458 of his "Century of
					Orthoptera Decade II. Locustarive," which appeared in the Proceedings of the Boston
					Society of Natural History, Vol XVII, pp. 454-462. As the joint works of Rehn & Hebard
					are so numerous and the references to them so many, the abbreviations R. & H. have
					been, for the most part, used for citation to them throughout the text.
				No attempt has been made to make reference to all the mentions of each species in the
					works cited, as such complete synonymy would fill a volume by itself. Special students,
					who wish a more extended synonymy, are referred to Scudder's "Index to North American
					Orthoptera," which includes every known reference to each species up to the close of the
					year 1900. A manuscript continuation of this index has been made by A. N. Caudell which,
					it is hoped, will soon be published. Another work, indispensable to the special student,
					is Kirby's "Synonymic Catalogue  of Orthoptera," published in
					three volumes (1904, 1906, 1910), which deals with the Orthoptera of the world, but
					contains many errors in the synonymy of the North American forms.
				MEASUREMENTS.--The measurements used in this work are given in
					millimeters or decimals thereof. A millimeter (mm.)=.0394, or a little more than 1/25 of
					an inch. For all practical purposes it may be remembered that 2.5 mm.=1/10 inch; 3 mm.=
					1/8+inch; 4 mm.=1/6+inch; 5 mm.=1/5 inch; 7.5 mm.=3/10 inch; 10 mm.=2/5 inch; 12.5 mm.=1/2
					inch; 15 mm.=3/5 inch; 17.5 mm.=7/10 inch; 20 mm.=4/5 inch.
				The measurements as given are usually those of the extremes of the series at hand and
					thus represent fairly well the variation in size of the different parts measured. The
					length of the body is taken from the tip of the vertex to the apex of the subgenital plate
					in male and base of ovipositor in female.
				HABITS AND SONGS OF ORTHOPTERA.--The habits of any form of animal life are usually of especial interest
					to the student of natural history. Each individual of the myriad living moving forms found
					upon this old earth of ours has its daily routine of life,--its journeys great or small,
					its quest for food, its search for a mate, its care of offspring, its place of hiding, its
					means of self-protection, its limits in hours or days or years of life,--its final
					passing back to the dust of the common mother--to that matter which is indestructible, yet
					ever mutable--ever ready to become a living, moving part of a mite or a man, a mouse or an
					elephant. Of all these forms of life none are more interesting in habits than the
					Orthoptera which, while few in numbers as compared with the great bulk of insect life,
					have a history reaching back far beyond that of man himself. For they were the first
					musicians of the earth, and by the means of their shrilling organs enlivened the solitudes
					of the strange old Devonian forests with their love calls and wooing notes. Hancock in his
					charming work "Nature Sketches in Temperate America," has described the habits of many
					Orthopterons. Scudder has set their songs to music. Hebard and Walker, Somes and Morse,
					Davis and Allard, Piers and Fox have described their notes, their haunts, their daily
					habits. From the writings of all these and many others I have gleaned and have included in
					the notes on each species those observations which it was thought would be most
					interesting. To some this mingling of the poetical with the technical may be deemed out of
					place in a work like this, but Grant Allen has well said: "Our thoughts about nature and
					nature's objects are often too largely  interwoven with hard
					technicalities concerning rotate corollas and pedicellate racemes, and I, for my part, am
					not ashamed to confess that I like sometimes to see the dry light of science diversified
					with some will-o'-the-wisp of pure poetical imagination."
				ACKNOWLEDGMENTS.--As already noted, this work is based largely upon my
					former one--"The Orthoptera of Indiana." In the preparation of that, as well as in my
					earlier studies of the group, I was greatly aided by two men to whom I wish to first pay
					tribute. One was Samuel H. Scudder of Cambridge, Mass.--a man noted for his varied
					accomplishments--a devoted student of insects, especially of butterflies and Orthoptera.
					He was the father of American Orthopterology, and to him more than to all his predecessors
					and contemporaries combined is due our present knowledge and classification of the group.
					When, in 1861, he wrote his first paper on Orthoptera fewer than 60 species were
					recognized from North America and a number of those were synonyms. In 1900, when he issued
					his second Catalogue 856 species were included, 385 of which had been described by him. A
					number of these have since been shown to be synonyms, for his later work, especially on
						Ceuthophilus and Melanoplus, was hurried and many
					mistakes naturally resulted. Of his published papers on Orthoptera no fewer than 81 are
					included in the bibliography accompanying this work, while a large number of others
					dealing with extra-limital species are not mentioned. Always willing to answer questions
					and ever interested in any new form which was discovered, his counsel was to me for many
					years both helpful and inspiring. His collection of Orthoptera with its many types is now
					in the Cambridge Museum of Comparative Zoology, where it is one of the lode-stars which
					attract to that Mecca of entomologists those interested in Orthoptera from all parts of
					the world.
				Another who aided in solving many a knotty problem in my old tyro days was Lawrence
					Bruner, then as now the Professor of Entomology in the University of Nebraska. He has long
					been interested not only in the Orthoptera of this country but in those of South America,
					and has published many papers and described many of the species belonging to our fauna.
					His cabinet of North American forms with its numerous types is now a part of the
					Philadelphia collections.
				When I began the preparation of this work I realized that I would have to call many times
					upon the present-day special students of North American Orthoptera, those who have kept
					the  science growing since the new century was ushered in.
					They are few in number but rich in lore, in enthusiasm and especially in a willingness to
					help a fellow-student when he sends out an S. O. S. for aid of any kind. To A. N. Caudell
					of the U. S. National Museum at Washington, D. C., I am indebted for many favors. Long a
					devoted student of the group, and an especial adept in the intricacies of the knotty
					problems of its nomenclature, he has been especially kind in answering the many questions
					which I have asked and in loaning me numerous volumes and many specimens for study. W. T.
					Davis of New Brighton, Staten Island, N. Y., who is not only a student of Orthoptera, but
					also a naturalist of high rank and interested in all forms of living things, has aided me
					greatly in many ways. His private collection of Orthoptera is rich not only in large
					series of some of the scarcer forms but in numerous types of the species he has described.
					From it he has loaned or presented me examples of many rare species. He has also furnished
					many notes on distribution and habits of various forms. Jas. A. G. Rehn and Morgan Hebard
					of Philadelphia, Pa., have loaned me numerous specimens and have verified or identified
					for me many others. Since 1900 they have built up at the Philadelphia Academy of Natural
					Sciences one of the largest and most complete collections of Orthoptera in the world--one
					rich in types not only of their own description, but of other authors. Their published
					monographs and other papers on North American Orthoptera are numerous and most valuable,
					and from them I have drawn freely for the pages which follow. Dr. J. L. Hancock of
					Chicago, Ill., the noted authority on the Tetrigidae of the world, has furnished me many
					notes on the distribution of the grouse locusts and loaned me numerous specimens of that
					interesting group. A. P. Morse of Wellesley, Mass., has shown me many favors. He has been
					for thirty or more years a special student of New England Orthoptera, and has also
					collected extensively in the Southern and Pacific states. His numerous types and other
					specimens have been placed freely at my service and he has furnished a number of notes on
					distribution and habits. Dr. E. M. Walker, of the University of Toronto, the leading
					student of Orthoptera in Ontario, has sent me much data regarding the forms found in
					eastern Canada, and from his writings and those of Piers and Morse I have gained much of
					the information given regarding the species found in the extreme eastern part of the
					territory covered. Dr. H. Fox of Macon, Ga., who has published interesting papers on the
					Orthoptera of Pennsylvania, New Jersey,  Indiana and
					Virginia, has furnished me numerous specimens and' has contributed a manuscript list of
					the species taken near Clarksville, Tenn. T. H. Hubbell of the University Museum of
					Zoology at Ann Arbor, Mich., prepared for me a similar list of Michigan species and kindly
					loaned specimens for examination. Others who contributed distribution data, specimens or
					other helpful aid were the late Chas. A. Hart of Urbana, Ill.; Wm. J. Gerhard of the Field
					Museum, Chicago; Prof. J. R. Watson, Dr. E. H. Berger and P. W. Fattig of Gainesville,
					Fla.; H. P. Loding of Mobile, Ala.; Prof. H. Garman of Lexington, Ky.; Nathan Banks of
					Cambridge, Mass.; Dr. Wm. A. Riley of the University of Minnesota; Myron H. Swenk of
					Lincoln, Neb.; J. R. Malloch of Urbana, Ill., and Chas. A. Dury of Cincinnati, Ohio.
				It is a pleasure to acknowledge and extend thanks to all the parties above mentioned,
					for, situated as I have been far from any large collection or reference library, the work
					in its present form would not have been possible had it not been for the aid so freely
					given.

				
					RELATION OF AN ORTHOPTERON TO
							OTHER ANIMALS.

					If we compare the body of a locust or other insect with that of any vertebrate animal,
						as a fish, bird or squirrel, we find at once great and important differences. The
						vertebrate is an animal with an inner bony skeleton, two pairs of jointed limbs or
						appendages, and breathes by means of lungs or gills, according as it dwells in air or
						water. The locust is an animal which has no inner skeleton or bones whatever, but only a
						hard crust on the surface which surrounds the muscles and vital organs. This crust is
						composed of separate rings, placed end to end.
					Animals whose bodies are thus composed of rings are called Articulata. They are in turn divided into two great groups, the Vermes and the Arthropoda. The Vermes
						(worms) have all the rings composing the body very nearly alike, not hardened into an
						outer crust or exoskeleton, and without paired limbs which are jointed. The Arthropods have a part of the rings bearing paired jointed appendages,
						and have the cuticle or outer surface consisting largely of a peculiar substance called
						"chitin," which is secreted or exuded by the cells which compose the cuticle. Chitin
						itself is insoluble and is not composed of cells, but consists of fine, irregular
						plates. It hardens the cuticle and thus aids the latter in protecting delicate vital
						organs within, and also in forming a framework to which the muscles of movement may be
						attached. Between  the joints the cuticle is devoid of
						chitin and is thin, delicate and flexible, thus allowing the necessary freedom of
						motion.
					The Arthropoda are divided into four classes, as follows: 
							
								(a) Crustacea (crayfish, lobster, etc.), mostly aquatic; having the
								head and thorax usually united and distinct from the abdomen; breathing by means of
								gills or directly through the skin, the exoskeleton with carbonate and phospate of
								lime in addition to chitin.
							
								(b) Arachnida (spiders, mites, etc.), terrestrial; head and thorax
								usually combined, and bearing four pairs of legs; breathing by means of
								tracheæ.

							

								Fig. 1. Body of a locust, side view, showing the rings of which the body is
									composed, the thorax being separated from the head and abdomen and divided into
									its three segments. (After Packard.)

							

							
								(c) Myriapoda (myriapods, centipedes, etc.), terrestrial; usually
								worm-like, with only the head distinct; legs numerous; breathing by means of
								tracheæ.
							
								(d) Insecta (grasshoppers, flies, beetles, etc.), in great part
								terrestrial; legs six; adults usually with one or two pairs of wings; breathing by a
								system of tubes called tracheæ, which branch and ramify through every portion of the
								body, and which open externally in about ten places on each side of the body instead
								of at the front end. The rings of the body are grouped in three regions; the head, the thorax and the abdomen. In general it may be said that the head contains or bears the organs
								of sense and of prehension and mastication of food; the thorax the organs of
								locomotion, and the abdomen those of reproduction.
						
					
				

				
					THE EXTERNAL ANATOMY OF A LOCUST.

					Having thus shown that a locust belongs to the class Insecta it is
						thought best, before giving its relation to the other orders  of that class, to describe briefly the external parts of a typical specimen. The
						beginner may thus the more readily grasp the name and location of the parts used in
						classification, as well as the meaning of many of the technical terms which, of
						necessity, have to be used in such a work as this. The three regions of the body, the
						head, the thorax, and the abdomen, with their appendages, will therefore be considered
						in order.
					THE HEAD.--The head of the locust is composed of
						four or more segments or rings, solidly fused together to form a single cavity or hard
						box of chitin, known as the epicranium. This contains the brain and
						accessory ganglia, and the mouth cavity. It bears or gives support to the antennae,
						mouth parts, eyes and ocelli; also internally to the muscles moving the mandibles or
						jaws. The broad basal portion of the epicranium back of the eyes is known as the occiput, the narrower portion between the eyes, the vertex, while the long frontal portion as far down as the prominent transverse
						suture is the front or face.
					
						Fig. 2. Front view of the head of a locust. (After Lugger).
					
					The short plate (cly), below or in front of the epicranium, is the
							clypeus. Below this and hinged to its front edge is a movable flap
						known as the labrum (lbr) or upper lip, to which are attached a pair
						of jointed labial palpi. This forms the roof or covering of the front
						part of the mouth, within which are the large, black-tipped, toothed jaws or mandibles (md), which are so attached to the epicranium as to move only
						in and out or to and from a median line. As has been shown by Nininger (Psyche,
							XXII, 13) the two mandibles in Orthoptera are not alike as is generally
						supposed, but the left one is slightly the larger and projects beyond the right one
						ventrally when closed. The distal ends of the two mandibles are beveled differently so
						that when closed the beveled surfaces are contiguous throughout and do not meet on the
						median line but always to the right of it. Inserted on the sides of the head just behind
						the mandibles and arched over the tongue will also be found a pair of accessory jaws,
						the maxillae (mx), each of which is composed of three parts, the most
						important being the jointed maxillary palpus. The segments of these
						palpi are usually five in number and vary in size and form in different groups therefore
						being often used in classification. The development and shape of these maxillæ in the
						locust,  as well as in other Orthoptera, depend very
						largely upon the nature of the food, as these organs serve not only to seize and hold
						the food in the mouth, but also as accessory jaws, aiding the mandibles in rendering the
						food more suitable for swallowing. Their palpi are not only organs of touch, but in many
						cases act as hands in helping to prehend and carrying morsels of food to the mouth.
					Above the clypeus, is a ridge extending upward along the median line of the face to the
						vertex. This is the frontal costa, and its characters are often used
						in classification. In one species it may be sulcate or grooved, in another, flat. Its
						edges, or carinæ; may be parallel the full length or may diverge or
						converge. Its width and prominence are also often mentioned.
					
						 Fig. 3. Side view of head. (After Lugger.)
					
					The region on the side of the head, behind the eye and above the base of the mandibles,
						is the cheek or gena (gen.). To its inner wall is attached the large
						muscle which moves the mandible.
					The eyes of a locust are five in number, two large compound ones and three small,
						simple ones. The compound eyes are present in all Orthoptera. In the locust they vary in
						shape, but for the most part are oval, and are located on the upper portion of the sides
						of the head. Each is made up of many thousands of six-sided facets or lenses, in each of
						which a single filament of the optic nerve ends. The simple eyes or ocelli
							(oc.) are absent in some Orthoptera, as the Tettigoniidae, some of the Gryllidae
						and the females of some Mantidae, but are present in the locust. Two of them are
						situated just above the base of the antennae, close to the inner margins of the compound
						eyes, while the third is located near the middle of the frontal costa. Their position
						varies in the different families of Orthoptera, and there are but two in the
						Gryllotalpinæ or mole crickets.
					These ocelli are thought to be inherited from the obscure eyes of the worm-like
						ancestry of the locust, while the many facetted compound eyes of insects and crustaceans
						have been evolved to satisfy the needs of the more recent existence of these groups.
					The antennæ (ant.) of the locust are simple, many jointed appendages,
						located on the face between the eyes and articulating with the head by a ball and socket
						joint. They are principally organs of touch, but are also supposed to contain the nerves
						of  smell. They vary much in length and form among the
						different families of Orthoptera, the variation being the result of adaptation to their
						peculiar surroundings and habits. For instance, in those camel crickets (Ceuthophilus), which dwell in caves, they are very much longer than in those
						members of the same genus which dwell above ground. Characters pertaining to their form,
						length, and point of union with the head, are much used in classification. Such terms as
							filiforn, clavate, setaceous, etc., relating to their form, are
						defined in the accompanying glossary.
					
						Fig. 4. Showing fastigium, disk and foveolæ of vertex. (After L u gger.)
					
					Characters pertaining to the vertex, or that part of the epicranium, between the eyes,
						are much used in separating the different species of Orthoptera. The central portion of
						the vertex, known as the disk (dv) or scutellum (sv)
						is often depressed, or separated from the remainder. Its bounding walls are termed lateral carinæ and often a median carina divides it into two parts. The
						front portion, or apex, often called the fastigium, is variable in
						form and its characters are also much used. On the outer side of, and a little below the
						front half of each lateral carina of the vertex there is, in many Orthoptera, a little
						space or concavity bounded by elevated ridges. These spaces are the lateral
							foveolæ (f.) and their variations in size and form also afford characters much
						used in classification.
					THE THORAX AND ITS APPENDAGES.--The middle region of the body of a locust or other insect is called
						the thorax. To study its parts aright, the wings and legs attached to
						it should be removed, when it will be seen to consist of three rings or segments. These
						are known as the prothorax, mesothorax and metathorax. Within these rings are located the muscles for moving the wings and
						legs, as well as some of the digestive organs.
					
						Fig. 5. Side view of prothorax of a locust. (After Lugger.)
					
					The prothorax of the locust (Fig. 5) has its entire dorsal surface, and sides in great
						part, covered by a large sunbonnet-shaped piece known as the pronotum
							(pro). This varies much in shape and size in the different families of
						Orthoptera. Its upper surface is called the disk, and its sides the
							lateral lobes. Raised lines known as the lateral
							carinæ usually separate the disk from the sides, while often a third line, the
							median carina runs lengthwise through the middle of the disk.


					

					This may be high or low, crested, arched, distinct, aborted, etc. It is usually cut by
						one or more notches formed by shallow grooves or sulci which cross the
						disk of the pronotum and extend down its sides. The hindmost of these sulci or grooves
						divides the disk of the ponotum into two parts known as the prozona
							(pz) and metazona (mz). The fore and hind margins of the disk
						of pronotum may be truncate, rounded, angled, notched, etc. The surface of the disk is
						usually smooth, but sometimes wrinkled and may be rugose or roughened with numerous
						tubercles. 
					
						Fig. 6. Dorsal view of head and pronotum.(After Lugger.)
					
					The under or ventral side of the prothorax is a narrow, somewhat movable piece called
						the prosternum. On its center it often bears a tooth or spine (pro.
							sp.), the presence or absence and shape of which form characters used in
						classification. Near the outer ends of the prosternum are shallow sockets in which are
						attached the front pair of legs.
					
						Fig. 7. Lower or ventral view of the thorax of a locust. (After Lugger.)
					
					The mesothorax and metathorax, the second and third
						segments of the thorax, are, in the locust, rather firmly united with the basal
						abdominal segment of the abdomen to form a firm walled box, though in the Blattidae they
						are distinct. The upper portion of these segments is, in most Orthoptera, partly or
						wholly covered by the pronotum or base of the outer wings. To the mesothorax are
						attached the tegmina or outer pair of wings and the second or middle pair of legs. To
						the metathorax are joined the inner wings and the third or hind pair of legs. The under
						or ventral portion of these segments are called respectively the mesosternum and metasternum. (Fig. 7.) The former in the
						locust is composed of a front transverse portion, with two nearly rectangular lobes
						projecting backward. Between these lobes is dove-tailed a squarish tongue, or forward
						prolongation of the metasternum. The latter is united with the  basal abdominal segment by the dove-tailing of a similar but narrower tongue
						between its lobes. The side pieces of the mesothorax and metathorax are called pleurites and bear the prefixes meso and meta.
					The wings are thin, broad, more or less leaf-like folds of the
						integument or body covering, which are joined to the thorax and moved by powerful
						muscles located within the thoracic cavity. The first or outer pair of wings of the
						locust and other Orthoptera serve as shields or covers for the more delicate inner pair.
						In the text which follows they are called tegmina. Each wing cover or
						tegmen is a thin, more or less transparent, leathery or parchment-like plate of chitin,
						strengthened by a network of tubes called nerves or veins. The spaces enclosed by the
						veins and their cross branches are called cells. When folded and at rest upon the body
						the outer face of the tegmen of a locust is vertical, with the front or costal margin
						below, and the posterior or sutural margin lying along the back; that of the left tegmen
						slightly overlapping the right.
					

						Fig. 8. Right tegmen of a locust, showing the venation. The names of the veins
							designated by the letters are given in the text. (After Saussure.)

					
					The principal veins of the tegmen of a locust diverge from the basal end and are seven
						in number. The one nearest the front or lower margin of the tegmen is the submarginal or costal vein (c). It is undivided, and may
						usually be traced for a little more than half the length of the tegmen, though in some
						locusts it is lacking. The second and longer vein, also undivided, is the mediastinal (m). The third and much larger vein is the humeral
							(h), sometimes called the subcostal. It gives rise to several
						large branches, the subdivisions of which form the framework of the greater part of the
						tegmen. The larger of these branches (d), is known as the discoidal vein, its branches being designated as d', dd", etc.
						The fourth or median vein (n), is much smaller and soon divides into
							 branches of nearly equal size. Above or behind the
						median vein is sometimes present a short, undivided vein (i), known as
						the intercalary vein. Next in order is the ulnar
						vein (u), which gives off several branches (u', u",
						etc.). The upper division of this vein (o) is known as the posterior ulnar or the submedian vein. Close to and
						parallel with it near the upper or hind margin of the tegmen, is the undivided anal vein (a), while the uppermost vein of the tegmen,
						also undivided, is the axillary vein (x).

					
						Fig. 9. Right tegmen of the locust, Dissosteira carolina (L.).
							Showing the venation. (After Saussure.)
					

					The tegmen is divided by these veins into 'three areas: The costal or
							marginal area (M) forms the lower or front edge of
						the wing cover and is bounded above and behind by the humeral vein. The median or discoidal area (D) is much the
						largest and lies between the humeral and posterior ulnar veins. The anal or dorsal area (X) is the free margin
						lying along the back above and behind the anal vein. The posterior end of the tegmen (A) is known as the apical margin.

					
						Fig. 10. Right tegmen of a locust, showing the "areas" designated in the text. (After
							Saussure.)
					

					The inner or second pair of wings are joined to the metathorax, and when at rest lie
						folded beneath the tegmina. If, in a fresh example, the dark colored marginal vein be
						pulled outward or forward with a pair of forceps, it will be seen that the wing is a
						thin, parchment-like membrane, with a stiff front edge, which is nearly straight, while
						the rounded outer and hind margins are thin and flexible. When in flight, the wing is
						fully extended, its upper surface being convex, while its front margin is rendered still
						more rigid by being overlapped by the internal margin of the upper wing or tegmen. The
						numerous veins radiating from the base are so arranged that their elasticity causes the
						wing to fold upon itself like a fan as soon as its margin is released. The  principal veins correspond in position to those of the
						tegmina, and have the same names. Both tegmina and wings are wanting in a number of
						species of Orthoptera, while in others the tegmina are present and the wings absent.
					The legs of a locust are six in number, arranged in pairs, one pair
						being joined to each of the divisions of the thorax. The first and second pairs are, in
						the leaping Orthoptera, much smaller than the third, but the number and name of the
						joints is the same. They unite with the body at a different angle from the hind or third
						pair, and are therefore adapted to crawling and clinging to grass stems or other support
						rather than to leaping.

					
						Fig. 11. Hind leg of a locust. (After Lugger.)
					

					The hind pair or leaping legs of the locust are composed of five parts: The coxa (c), or basal division, which is joined to the metathorax; a small
						segment, the trochanter (tr), immovably joined to the upper apical
						portion of the coxa; the femur (f), a long, swollen, club-shaped
						segment, which makes up nearly half the length of the limb. When the insect is at rest,
						it extends upward and backward, with its apical end above the dorsal surface of the
						body. This segment contains powerful leaping muscles. The tibia (ti)
						is about as long as the femur but is very slender and of uniform diameter. When at rest
						it extends downward and backward, at an acute angle from the apex or knee of the femur,
						but in the act of jumping it is jerked backward against the ground or other support,
						into which the tibial spurs are driven, then the sudden straightening of the legs by the
						powerful internal muscles propels the insect into the air. In leaping the tibia is kept
						from wobbling by a lobe extending back each side of its base, from the apex of the
						femur. The tibia usually bears on each of its upper outer margins a row of spines, and
						at the end one or more pairs of longer spines or spurs known as calcaria. The tibiae of the fore legs of a number of Orthoptera are much
						modified for use in burrowing or prehending food. The tarsus (ta) or
						foot of the locust is made up of three movable joints. 4 The first and longest has upon its lower surface a soft
							4In the grouse locusts or
							Tetrigidæ and the sand crickets or Tridactylinæ the fore and middle tarsi have but two
							joints, while the tarsi of most Tettigoniidæ have four and middle tarsi have but two
							joints, while the tarsi of most Tettigoniidæ have four and those of the Blattidæ,
							Mantidæ and Phasmidæ five.
						 pad or pulvillus (p) which, by its
						adhesion to foreign bodies, serves as a point of resistance in leaping. The second joint
						is much shorter and carries a smaller pad. The third joint is long and slender, with two
						curved pointed claws or ungues (un), between which is a concave
						sucking disk or pad, known as the arolium.
					THE ABDOMEN.-The abdomen or hind portion of the
						body of the locust (Fig. 1) is composed of ten more or less complete segments, so united
						as to be movable in a small degree. Each segment is composed of two parts, a tergum or upper portion, and a sternum or under piece.
						The tergum is crested or bent in the median line to form a ridge, the two sides, sloping
						downward, being known as tergites. The sternum of the first or basal
						abdominal segment is united firmly to that of the metathorax. The tergites of this
						segment, in the locust, each contain a large opening closed by a membrane, the auditory
						organ or ear. However, the ears of many Orthoptera are borne upon the basal portion of
						the front tibiæ. Eight of the abdominal segments of the locust have a small opening on
						the lower margin of each tergite. These are spiracles or external
						openings of tubes which serve as air passages. The ninth and tenth abdominal segments of
						the locust are more or less modified in both sexes. The abdomen of the female ends in a
						double pair of short curved movable horny plates, known as the valves of
							the ovipositor. In the other families of Orthoptera in which the ovipositor is
						visible, these plates vary greatly in form and size. The valves in the female locust are
						used in forcing the earth aside, thus forming a pit in which the eggs are deposited.
						Between and hidden by them is the ovipositor proper.
					
						Fig. 12. Auditory organs or ears (A) of a locust; (B) of a katydid. (After
							Lugger.)
					
					The ventral portion of the last abdominal segment of the male locust is a large,
						upcurved, spoon-shaped piece known as the subgenital plate. Attached to the tergum of
						the next to the last segment are a pair of appendages known as the cerci. In the male
						locust these are unjointed, and in the different species vary much in size and shape,
						often affording valuable characters for classification. In many of the other families
						they are jointed, and more or  less hairy. The cerci of the
						female locust are much smaller than those of the male, and in other Orthoptera are often
						wanting. The tergum or upper portion of the tenth abdominal segment is a triangular,
						often thick solid plate, known as the supra-anal plate. At the base of
						this plate and resting upon it, a pair of projections, known as the furcula, are usually present in the male. In certain genera of locusts the
						shape, size and relative position of these afford valuable specific characters. Lying
						within the cavity of the subgenital plate, and occupying the space beyond the tip of the
						supra-anal, there is in the Melanopli a structure covered with a soft integument. This
						is known as the pallium and is used to some extent in
						classification.
					
						Fig. 13. Tip of abdomen of male locust; a, supra-anal plate; c, cerci; f, furcula; s,
							subgenital plate; 8, 9, 10, abdominal s e g m e n ts. (After Hart.)
					
					The above constitute the more important external parts of the locust, the characters of
						which are used in determining the name and position of any member of the order
						Orthoptera. As will be seen in the pages which follow, these different parts vary much
						in size and in form, but the names given to them apply as well to the members of one
						family as to another. By referring to the accompanying figures, and by observing
						carefully the parts of the specimen in hand, the beginner need have little hesitation in
						deciding as to whether the description agrees with that specimen.
				

				
					THE RELATION OF ORTHOPTERA TO OTHER INSECTS.

					All true insects can be separated into one or the other of two great groups, based upon
						the kind of changes or transformations which they undergo before reaching the adult or
						winged stage. To one group--the Metabola--belong those insects which
						undergo what is termed a complete metamorphosis. In this group there
						are four distinct stages--the egg, larval, pupal and imago--in the order named. No
						insect is hatched from the egg with wings, and when an insect reaches the winged stage
						it is adult, and never grows thereafter. Thus the gnats and midges are not the sons and
						daughters of the larger flies, but are full grown insects of themselves, which are
						undergoing the fourth or last stage of their lives. The second, the larval or worm-like
						stage, is the one in which the insect of this group is commonly the most injurious, for
						then it eats voraciously, and then is the only period of its life when it grows in size.
						The pupal, or third stage, is usually a quiescent one, the insect eating nothing and not
						increasing in size, 
						

							Fig. 14. Partial metamorphosis of Melanoplus femur-rubrum,
								showing the five nymph stages, and the partial growth of the wings, which are first
								visible externally in 3, 3b, 3c. (After Packard.)
						
						 but undergoing great changes of form. Thus the homely and
						often repulsive grubs, maggots and caterpillars, which are the larval forms of the
						beetles, flies and butterflies, respectively, enter the third stage as worm-like
						crawling creatures, and emerge from it as beautiful winged forms, sometimes glistening
						and gleaming with all the colors of the rainbow. This change of life and form is
						undoubtedly of great advantage to the most of this group of insects, as it tends to
						prevent the extinction of the species; since, if at a given moment the parents were
						swept out of existence, the young, living in a different station, would continue to
						represent the species.
					The second group, the Heterometabola, comprises those insects in
						which the metamorphosis is incomplete; the young,
						when hatched from the egg being wholly wingless and of the same general form as the
						parent. As the insect grows it moults its skin a number of times and wings develop
						gradually, there being no sharp line defining the larval and pupal stages. The young of
						all stages are called nymphs and continue active and feed from the
						time of hatching until they reach the final moult and emerge therefrom mature or in the
						imago stage. The number of moults which Orthoptera undergo varies in the different
						families. In the true locusts there are five, while cockroaches and some mantids are
						said to have as many as seven.
					It is to this second group, the Heterometabola, whose members undergo
						an incomplete metamorphosis, that the Orthoptera, the order of which this paper treats,
						belong. From other orders of the group, as the Hemiptera or true bugs, Odonata or
						dragonflies, etc., the Orthoptera may be known by having the wings, when
							present, net veined, four in number, the outer pair leathery or parchment-like and
							usually overlapping when at rest; the inner pair thinner, more delicate and folded in
							plaits like a fan; mouth parts biting; hind legs in the greater number of forms,
							greatly enlarged for leaping. The name Orthoptera is derived from two Greek
						words, orthos, straight, and pteron, a wing, and
						refers to the longitudinal folding of the hind wings. The fore wings, or tegmina, are
						not used in flight, the hind pair alone being used for that purpose.
				

				
					ENEMIES OF ORTHOPTERA.

					With the exception of the Mantids, all our Orthoptera are injurious, most of them being
						vegetable feeders. Were it not for the many natural enemies which prey upon them, they
						would  abound each season in such vast numbers as to prove
						a veritable scourge. These enemies are many of them parasites which live only upon
						Orthopterous forms, and when the latter are abundant the parasites also increase in
						number, and soon devastate the hordes of insects. Besides these parasites, many
						predaceous or beneficial insects feed upon locusts and crickets; and birds, both wild
						and domesticated, are exceedingly fond of them. These parasites, predaceous insects and
						birds are, therefore, of great benefit to the farmer, and he should do all in his power
						to increase their number, in order to keep within bounds the different species of
						Orthoptera.
					
						Fig. I5. Locust--Melanoplus bivittatus (Say)--killed by a fungus.
							(After Lugger.) 
					
					VEGETABLE PARASITE.--Among the most common
						parasites of locusts are two or three species of vegetable fungi, which in wet seasons
						attack them, sap their veins and in time destroy many of their tissues. One often finds,
						after a long, damp spell in late summer, many dead specimens of our larger locusts
						clinging to the tops of weeds. A close examination will show that their bodies are soft,
						and issuing from them in many places are the ends of fungus tubes. These locust fungi,
							Entomopthora calopteni Bessy, Empusa grilli Fres.,
						and Sporotrichum globuliferum Speg., for some unexplained reason often
						impel the insects affected to climb some tall weed or grass stem and cling to it with
						such tenacity that the body remains long after death. The spores given off from the
						fungus of the diseased or dead locust, are more widely scattered by this peculiar habit
						which the host insect has of climbing tall weeds, as they can the more readily be
						dispersed over wide areas. Besides these fungus parasites, other vegetable bacteria
						attack locusts in favorable seasons. But this takes place only in long warm, damp
						spells; during which the locust has sought shelter and been deprived of food. Many are
						then often congregated together and one individual affected by the disease may inoculate
						hundreds. In a dry season, the locusts and green grasshoppers are much more healthy and
						abundant and the damage which they do is much greater than in a wet one.


					

					In our northern states the number of Orthoptera and other insects which will be present
						in any summer depends largely upon the character of the preceding winter. Most insects
						pass the winter in either the egg or the pupal stage; since these forms can readily
						withstand long and severe cold weather, in fact may be frozen solid for weeks and retain
						life and vigor, both of which are shown when warm weather and food appear again. Indeed,
						it is not an unusually cold winter, but one of successive thawings and freezings, which
						is most destructive to insect life. A mild winter encourages the growth of mold which
						attacks the hibernating larvae and pupae as soon as, from excess of rain or humidity,
						they become sickly; and it also permits the continued activity of insectivorous mammals
						and birds. Thus, moles, shrews, and field mice, instead of burying themselves deeply in
						the ground, run about freely during an open winter and destroy enormous numbers of pupæ;
						while such birds as the woodpeckers, titmice and chickadees are constantly on the alert,
						and searching in every crevice and cranny of fence and bark of tree for the hibernating
						eggs and larvæ.
					
						Fig. 16. Trombidium locustarlm.--a, female with her batch of eggs
								(after Emerton); b, newly hatched larva, natural size
							indicated by the dot within the circle; c, egg; d,
								e, vacated egg shells. (After Riley.)
					
					ANIMAL PARASITES.--A number of parasites
						belonging to the animal kingdom use as their chief hosts the bodies of locusts and other
						member of the order Orthoptera. Among the more common of these animal parasites is the
						red locust mite, Trombidium locustarum Riley. On the first warm, sunny
						days of spring, as soon as the surface of the earth is fairly dry and warm, scores of
						minute "red spiders" can be seen along any pathway in the woods and fields. They are
						especially common if locusts were abundant  the year
						before. These red spiders are in fact mature red mites, the two sexes of which are shown
						in Fig. 17. Soon after appearing in spring, the sexes mate and the female soon deposits
						300 or more small, globular eggs at a depth of a few inches in the soil. From each of
						these eggs there hatches, about the time the young locusts appear, a minute six-legged
						mite, which runs actively about in search of some host to which it may attach itself.
						When it happens upon a young locust, it fastens itself to the wings, wing pads or
						abdomen and uses its mouth parts to suck up the fluid portions of its host. In a short
						time its body increases in size, the legs grow smaller, and the mite resembles a small,
						globular mass of blood attached to the locust. Sometimes as many as twenty mites can be
						counted on a single host. When thus infested, the locust often becomes disabled, and
						drags itself about
						
							Fig. 17. Trombidium locustarum Riley.--a,
								mature larva when about to leave the wing of a locust; b, pupa;
									c, male adult when just from the pupa; d,
								female--the natural sizes indicated to the right; e, pupal claw
								and thumb; f, pedal claws; g, one of the barbed
								hairs h, the striations on the larval skin. (After Riley.)
						 in a clumsy fashion, eats less and dies early, often before the mating
						and egg-laying season has arrived. In the swollen and almost legless condition which the
						mite soon attains, it can not move about, and so remains in one position until full
						grown, when it drops to the ground and enters the pupal stage from which it emerges as
						the "red spider-kin" of spring. It often becomes mature in late autumn and passes the
						winter in the ground where it is not idle, except when the temperature sinks below the
						freezing point. It feeds upon all sorts of soft food, and whenever it has access to the
						eggs of locusts it greedily eats them. In soil containing eggs of locusts large numbers
						of these mites congregate. They creep into every hole in search of these eggs and thrive
						upon such rich food. The great advantage of fall plowing over all  other remedies against locusts is seen in regard to these red mites, as the
						plowing of fields in which the eggs of locusts have been deposited will destroy the
						young locusts hatching from them, but not the mites, which can easily work their way
						toward the surface.
					Other parasitic animals besides these mites often attack the different species of
						Orthoptera. On a number of occasions I have found protruding from the abdomens of green
						grasshoppers and crickets a slender "hair worm" or "horse-hair snake," a species of Gordius. If the body of such grasshopper or cricket be cut open the
						interior is often found to be almost filled with this parasite, which is many times
						longer than its host, and it will be seen that all the important organs of the latter
						are pressed to one side and unable to perform their necessary functions. Locusts so
						affected are seldom able to propagate their kind.
					Among insect enemies of the Orthoptera, which aid largely in keeping down their
						numbers, are "Tachina Flies," "Flesh Flies," "Bee Flies," and "Blister Beetles." Tachina
						flies are mostly of a gray color, and resemble large house flies. In fields where
						locusts are abundant, one of these flies may often be seen hovering over a large
						specimen, awaiting a favorable opportunity to deposit one or more of its eggs on the
						neck or beneath the wing. These eggs hatch into larvae or maggots which eat their way
						into the body of the locust. There they seem to avoid the most vital parts, but feed
						upon the fatty secretions stored up for future use of the reproductive organs. Locusts
						so affected have a soft, flabby body, and can often be readily caught by the hand. They
						never mate, and perish much sooner than the healthy, unaffected individuals.
					The flesh flies of the genus Sarcophaga attack locusts, katydids and
						grasshoppers in much the same manner as do the tachina flies, and their maggots are
						often found existing as true parasites upon the vitals of these Orthopterous insects.
						When the maggots of these flies become full grown, they burrow through the body wall of
						the locust and drop to the ground, where they enter the earth and pass through the pupal
						stage from which they emerge as fully winged insects, ready for attack upon a new
						generation of locusts. Webster (1907) records the receiving from Wyoming of
						a large number of dead specimen of Melanoplus differentialis (Thos.)
						which had been doing much damage to alfalfa. When received the material was full of the
						maggots and pupæ of Sarcophaga georgiana Wied.



					

					The egg clusters of locusts, crickets and other Orthoptera in the ground are often
						attacked by the larval forms of bee flies and blister beetles. The bee flies are of a
						blackish gray color, densely covered with pale yellow hairs, and in June and July may
						often be seen hovering above the ground, or feeding upon the honey of various species of
						wild flowers. Their eggs are laid among or close to the egg masses of the locust, and
						their larvæ feed upon and destroy myriads of the eggs of the locusts and crickets.
					A dozen or so species of blister beetles or "old fashioned potato beetles" of the
						genera Macrobasis and Epicauta occur in our Eastern
						States and in the winged or full grown stage are often very injurious to potatoes and
						allied plants. The eggs of the blister beetles are laid in the ground. in late summer,
						and the larvæ soon hatch and move actively about in search of animal food, in the form
						of egg masses of other insects. They have often been found feeding upon the eggs of
						locusts and other Orthoptera and are undoubtedly of much aid in keeping within bounds
						these injurious forms.
					
						Fig. 18. Macrobasis unicolor Kirby. The ash-gray blister beetle.
							Female. X 2. (After Chittenden.)
					
					Many of the ground beetles or Carabidæ feed, during both their larval and mature
						stages, upon locust eggs. More than 500 species of this family of beetles occur east of
						the Mississippi, and all are beneficial. In the mature stage they are long legged, rapid
						moving forms, which mostly hide by day beneath logs and rubbish and run actively about
						at night in search of some form of flesh upon which they may make a meal. Since insect
						life is the most common form which they find on or beneath the ground, it is but natural
						that most of their food is composed of it. The species of Calosoma,
							Agonoderus and Harpalus, examples of which are figured
						herewith, are among the most common and beneficial of this family of beetles. The larvæ
						of Harpalus may, in autumn, often be found feeding on the egg masses
						of the locust.
					Higher in the scale of animal life are many forms which are among the best friends the
						farmer possess, yet many of them he destroys on sight through ignorance of their
						beneficial habits. Chief among these are skunks, shrews, moles, salamanders, toads and
						snakes. Skunks are very fond of both grasshoppers and their  egg masses, as well as of white grubs and larvæ of many other injurious insects, and
						one can often see where they have dug small cavities in the ground in search of this
						form of food. They are regarded by the U. S. Biological Survey, which has made a special
						study of their habits, as the most useful of our wild mammals and therefore deserve
						protection rather than destruction by the farmer. Both shrews and moles are burrowing
						mammals which feed almost wholly upon insect life. True, the latter sometimes destroy
						the seeds of corn and vegetable's, but the good which they do in destroying the eggs and
						larvæ of injurious insects far outweighs the bad. Salamanders, or ground puppies, live
						beneath logs and chunks and burrow into the surrounding region in search of eggs and
						larvæ, while toads and snakes feed largely upon the young and mature of grasshoppers and
						locusts, yet all are usually destroyed at sight by farmers or their sons.
					
						Fig. 19. a, Calosoma calidum Fab. X 1.2; b, Agonoderus
								pallipes Fab. X 5; c, Harpalus pennsylvanicus DeJ. X 2.
					
					More than 100 species of birds are known to use as food either the young or full grown
						individuals of many kinds of Orthoptera. The U. S. Biological Survey at Washington and
						other authorities, have made investigations of the stomachs of many species of birds,
						and have found that the following are some of the more common birds of our Eastern
						States which feed largely upon locusts and grasshoppers.
				

				

					PARTIAL LIST OF EASTERN BIRDS WHICH ARE KNOWN TO FEED UPON ORTHOPTERA.

					
						Franklin's Gull.
							Sora.
						Black Tern.
							Great Blue Heron.
						American Bittern.
							Wilson's Snipe.
						Least Bittern.
							Golden Plover.
						King Rail.
							Barn Owl.


						

						Screech Owl.
							Marsh Hawk.
						Red-tailed Hawk.
							Baltimore Oriole.
						Red-shouldered Hawk.
							Common Blackbird.
						Broad-winged Hawk.
							Song Sparrow.
						Black Hawk.
							Chipping Sparrow.
						American Sparrow Hawk.
							Vesper Sparrow.
						Yellow-billed Cuckoo.
							Chewink.
						Black-billed Cuckoo.
							Dickcissel.
						Red-headed Woodpecker.
							Scarlet Tanager.
						Hairy Woodpecker.
							Butcher Bird.
						Downy Woodpecker.
							Red-eyed Vireo.
						Flicker.
							Yellow-throated Vireo.
						Night Hawk.
							Black-poll Warbler.
						Whip-poor-will.
							Pine Warbler.
						Phoebe.
							Golden Warbler.
						Kingbird.
							Water Wagtail.
						Prairie Horned Lark.
							Yellow-breasted Chat.
						Blue Jay.
							Mockingbird.
						Common Crow.
							Catbird.
						Bobolink.
							Tufted Titmouse.
						Cowbird.
							White-breasted Nuthatch.
						
							Red-winged Blackbird.
							Ruby-crowned Kinglet.
						Meadow Lark.
							Brown Thrasher.
						Killdeer.
							Wilson's Thrush.
						Quail.
							Wood Thrush.
						Ruffed Grouse.
							Hermit Thursh.
						Prairie Hen.
							House Wren.
						Wild Turkey.
							Robin.
						Mourning Dove.
							Bluebird.
					


					Of the foregoing list, those which feed mainly on Orthoptera during the summer season
						are the hawks, blackbirds, crows, blue jay, prairie chicken, mockingbird and bluebird.
						All of the birds mentioned are, however, beneficial in the highest degree and should, at
						all times, be protected from their enemies, chief among which is the youth with his
						shotgun, or the small boy with egg hunting proclivities.
				

				

					PREVENTIVE AND REMEDIAL MEASURES AGAINST DESTRUCTIVE
							LOCUSTS.

					Aside from the locusts or short-horned grasshoppers, few of our Orthoptera ever appear
						in such numbers as to do excessive damage. However, almost every summer there is in some
						of our Eastern States an outbreak of locusts which, for a time, cause serious loss. In
						1918 they appeared in greater numbers and were more destructive throughout Indiana than
						for many years. While  this work is not intended as an
						economic treatise there are four methods of preventing or dealing with a locust outbreak
						which are practical in application and of low cost. These should be known to every
						farmer and are briefly stated as follows:
					DESTROYING THE EGGS.--This is a preventive
						measure which is practical when an outbreak is feared in any locality. It may be easily
						accomplished by either plowing, disking or cultivating in late fall or winter all waste
						lands such as roadsides, ditch banks, margins of cultivated fields, uncultivated fields
						and grassy margins along fences. Fields in young clover or alfalfa which cannot be
						plowed should be thoroughly disked in fall and harrowed in early spring. Stirring the
						soil to a depth of two or three inches will usually be sufficient, as the eggs are laid
						in clusters within that distance from the surface and the stirring breaks up the egg
						clusters, exposes them to their natural enemies or buries them so deep that the young
						never emerge.
					DESTROYING WITH POISONED BAIT.--After the grasshoppers have appeared in numbers they can be
						killed by a poisoned bait scattered freely about throughout their haunts. Two formulas
						for this bait have both been used with success. As given by J. J. Davis,5 they are as follows:

					
						POISONED BRAN AND SAWDUST BAIT.

						Bran (half and half bran and sawdust, or sawdust alone) 25
								lbs.
						Paris green or crude arsenious oxide 1 lb.
						Molasses, cheap feeding grade 2 qts.
						Lemons, bananas or oranges 6 fruits.
						Water 1 to 2 gals.
					

					The poison should be thoroughly mixed with the bran. The water, molasses and finely
						chopped fruit are then mixed and added to the poisoned bran. Thoroughly mix and add
						water if necessary. The mixture should be wet so that it will mold in the hands, but
						should not be soppy. Coarse bran is the best material for making the bait, but the use
						of half hardwood sawdust and half bran, or of sawdust alone as a substitute for bran,
						gives very good results. The bait should be scattered broadcast early in the morning, at
						the rate of seven to ten pounds to the acre.

					
						THE CRIDDLE MIXTURE.

						This consists of one-half barrel of fresh horse droppings, one pound of Paris
							green or crude arsenious oxide, or one and one-half pounds of 5"Grasshopper control in Indiana."--Circ. No.
								88, Purdue Univ., Agri. Exper. Stat., 1919, 1-8. See also Farmers' Bulletin No.
								691.
							 white arsenic; six or eight lemons, oranges or bananas
							or one and one-half ounces of cheap lemon extract, and water to make a wet but not
							sloppy mash. These ingredients are thoroughly mixed and scattered broadcast, the same
							as recommended for poisoned bran bait.
					

					USE OF A "HOPPERDOZER" OR "GRASSHOPPER CATCHER."--These two devices for catching
						grasshoppers where they are too plentiful have both been extensively used with great
						success. Webster (1907) describes a cheaply constructed but efficient
						hopperdozer as follows: "It is constructed of sheet iron, preferably galvanized, of
						reasonable thickness to insure strength, and, except for the end pieces, made of a
						single sheet ten or twelve feet long and 26 inches in width. . The front is formed by
						turning up one edge a couple of inches, and the back may be turned up a foot, thus
						making a shallow pan one foot wide, with the back the same height and with the front two
						inches high. Ends are riveted in and soldered. Runners of old wagon tire are placed at
						each end, and another in the center is turned over in the front and back to strengthen
						the pan at these points. These runners are riveted to the pan, and should extend both
						backward and forward in order to overcome to some extent the inequalities of the ground
						and cause the hopperdozer to run more smoothly. By soldering it about the heads of the
						rivets the pan will be made water-tight. A central partition six inches high will keep
						the contents from flowing to one side and running over the edge on uneven ground. The
						pan is filled with water on which is poured enough kerosene to cover it with a film, a
						horse is hitched to the end runners, and the outfit is then ready for use. As the
						hopperdozer is drawn over the ground the locusts will either jump into the kerosene and
						water direct or against the back and drop into it and there be killed. By using longer,
						wider, and heavier sheet iron a larger and stronger pan can be made and this further
						strengthened by additional runners; a horse can then be hitched to each end, or the pan
						may be mounted on low wheels. Crude oil or tar may be used instead of kerosene and
						water."
					The "Grasshopper Catcher" is a somewhat similar device, but instead of killing the
						locusts by having them fall into a kerosene mixture, it is arranged so that when they
						strike the upright metal back they fall to the bottom and back through a narrow trap
						opening into a screened box. This has a hinged lid and when full, the locusts can be
						easily removed into sacks and hung up to dry for poultry feed. Full details explaining
						the structure of this device are given in the Purdue circular above cited. The dried
						locusts are rich in protein and make an excellent winter food for poultry.


					

					UTILIZATION OF POULTRY.--Where locusts are
						abundant each season farmers can protect their crops and at the same time make a profit
						off the insects by keeping large flocks of poultry. This has been done many times in
						Kansas and other locust-infested States. Portable poultry yards which can be easily
						moved from one point to another will keep a flock of chickens in plentiful food and at
						the same time rid large areas of the locust pest.
					About the best remedy for Orthoptera on a farm is a large flock of turkeys. Under the
						leadership of an experienced gobbler, almost their entire time during the summer and
						fall months is spent in wandering over the fields and pastures in search of the fat and
						juicy nymphs of locusts, grasshoppers and crickets. Indeed, most of the luscious white
						and brown meat of our Thanksgiving and Christmas dinners was once grass, then
						grasshoppers, and finally turkey. No better and more practical remedy can be devised,
						for the damage which the insects do, especially in these days of "turkey trusts," is
						often more than compensated by the value of the pounds of flesh which this domesticated
						fowl stores up from its favorite food of locusts..
				

				

					THE COLLECTING AND PRESERVATION OF ORTHOPTERA.6

					As will be noted in the pages which follow, each species of Orthoptera has its favorite
						local habitat or chosen haunt, the place where it finds the struggle for existence least
						fierce, food most abundant, protection or concealment from its enemies most easy. Here
						the collector will find that species most abundant and for the beginner a few directions
						for its capture and preservation will perhaps be useful.
					INSECT NETS.--The most efficient device for
						taking the majority of forms of Orthoptera is a strong sweep net. The frame of the
						folding steel landing net made for fishermen and sold in most sporting-goods houses
						serves admirably for the frame of a sweep net. When unfolded it should have a diameter
						of about 16 inches; and the handle should be preferably of one piece and not over 30
						inches long. The bag should be made of light canvas or very heavy unbleached muslin and
						should be 20 to 24 inches in depth. Such a net can be easily used with one hand both in
						sweeping from side to side herbs and small shrubs as one walks leisurely along, or it
						can be used more forcibly in quick upward sweeps against the branches of larger shrubs
						and trees, thus 
							6For more detailed directions on this subject
							see Bruner (1895a) or Banks (1909.)
						 jarring the insects into the net, where they can be
						captured with fingers or forceps, or by placing the mouth of the killing bottle quickly
						over them. This net also serves well instead of an umbrella as a beating receptable. For
						this purpose it is held under the foliage with one hand while the limb is struck a
						quick, sharp downward blow with a strong stick. The sweep net serves best in the capture
						of such Orthoptera as do not fly quickly as mantids, phasmids, most katydids,
						long-horned grasshoppers, tree crickets, ground and sand crickets, etc.
					
						Fig. 20. One form of a sweeping or beating net opened and attached to handle, with
							frame of same folded. (After Kiesenwetter.)
					
					For the quick flying or leaping Orthoptera, as the short-horned locusts, species of Scudderia, etc., a strong butterfly net with the bag of gauze, bruxelle
						or mosquito netting will be most useful. With this the insect may usually be taken by a
						quick swoop just as it rises, or by bringing the net suddenly down over it from above,
						as it rests on the ground. The thin meshed bag has the advantage of the insect being
						readily visible when captured, whereas one must open the sweep net and peer into its
						depths, thus giving many a fine specinen a chance to dart out and away. A cheap frame
						for either sweep or butterfly net can be made of a piece of heavy No. 4 or larger wire
						bent into the proper form with about three inches of each end bent in such a way that
						they can be made parallel and then forced into the end of a bamboo or other handle.
					Another device used by collectors is the forceps net made of two rings five or six
						inches in diameter, each with gauze stretched tightly across it, the two handles to
						which the rings are attached being hinged like a pair of large shears and the rings
						tightly fitting when closed. This net is useful in taking tree crickets and other
						Orthoptera which have been located by their song at night. 
						It is opened and then clapped suddenly together about the insect which is held tightly
						between the two pieces of gauze until removed. Many Orthoptera can also be taken by
						beating into an open umbrella, but quick action is usually necessary to capture the
						specimen after it is once in the ungainly receptacle.
					Most of the ground crickets hide by day in burrows or beneath stones, logs, piles of
						dead leaves or other debris, while roaches hide beneath loose bark or behind signs
						attached to trees. These nocturnal forms can usually easily be taken by overturning
						their cover and capturing with fingers or forceps. Mole crickets may often be found
						beneath a stone or chunk at the end of their burrows, or by digging with a spade or
						trowel into the muck about the border of a lake or pond.
					TRAPPING JARS.--W. T. Davis and others have had
						much success in taking camel-crickets (Ceuthophilus) and other
						terrestrial species by trapping with a special molasses bait. This bait is made by
						taking a pint of cane or New Orleans molasses (not corn syrup) and adding to it a
						teaspoonful of fusel oil. Into an old tin or wide mouthed jar or bottle this bait is
						poured to a depth of about one-third of an inch. The jar is then sunk in the ground to
						the level of its mouth and a chip or flat stone placed at an incline just above it to
						keep out rain or falling debris. If visited two or three times a week many insects will
						be found which, when removed with forceps into a box, then thrown into water for half an
						hour and afterward dried, will be ready for mounting. These traps are most successful
						when placed along woodland paths, borders of fields, near an old log, a pile of stones
						or base of a cliff, especially where dead leaves or other debris occurs in quantity.
					NIGHT COLLECTING.--Many rare species of nocturnal
						Orthoptera can best be captured by using a flash light or small camp acetylene lantern
						after night. They will then be found moving freely about over foliage or along pathways.
						Many can be located by their night song. By taking two cross-bearings, thus closely
						approximating the exact locality of the singer, it can be cautiously approached and
						captured with net or hand. Numerous species of Orthoptera are attracted by light, and
						good night collecting will often be found at the proper season beneath or near the
						electric street lights of cities and towns.
					KILLING BOTTLES--After capturing a specimen for a
						cabinet it is best to kill it as quickly as possible before its antennæ, legs or other
						delicate appendages are broken. This is best  accomplished
						by the cyanide bottle, which is made by placing in a large mouthed bottle (one of the
						form shown in Fig. 21, about five inches high by two and a half in diameter, is
						preferable for Orthoptera) small broken pieces of potassium or sodium cyanide to a depth
						of two-thirds of an inch. Cover this with one-half inch of plaster paris. Moisten the
						latter with just enough water to cause it to set and hold the cyanide in place. Then
						cover with two thicknesses of blotting paper so cut as to closely fit the inside of the
						bottle. Keep the bottle tightly corked and in a place where children cannot
							reach it, as the cyanide in any form is a most deadly poison. Any Orthopteron
						placed in the bottle will usually be killed in a few minutes. Several bottles of
						different size for both large and small specimens should be taken on each day's trip.
						After six months or more the cyanide usually loses its poisonous qualities and must be
						renewed or the bottle discarded for a fresh one.
					
						Fig. 21. A cyanide bottle with paper strips enclosed to keep the insects from
							jostling too freely. (After Banks.)
					
					A small wooden or tin box with layers of felt or cotton should be taken into the field
						and after a half dozen or so specimens have been killed in the bottle they should be
						removed to this box, as they are apt to be broken if carried about for several hours.
						The cyanide bottle after being used several times for large Orthoptera will often be
						found to contain much moisture. It should then be wiped out with dry cotton and new
						pieces of blotting paper substituted for the moist ones. A large bottle with a solid
						lump or two of cyanide held in place by a mass of cotton or shreds of tissue paper can
						be temporarily used for very large specimens.
					After the day's collecting the specimens should be either mounted or, if away from
						home, packed for carrying or shipment. They are best transported by placing between
						layers of felt or cotton in small cigar boxes. If in a moist climate and packed too
						closely they are apt to mold in a short time. With the larger  specimens this can often be prevented by slitting the abdomen along the
						middle or sides of under surface with a pair of sharp pointed scissors and removing the
						intestines and other internal organs with a pair of forceps. Then wipe out the cavity
						with a small piece of cotton and stuff with loose raw cotton or very small pieces of
						cheese-cloth, taking care not to fill too full and distend the abdomen beyond its
						original size. Press the sides of the abdomen gently into shape and mount on a pin or
						pack for shipment. Specimens so stuffed do not become soft and turn dark, but retain
						their original color and are less apt to be attacked by museum pests or mold.
					
						Fig. 22. Showing method of slitting abdomen of large Orthopteron. (After Bruner.)
					
					LABELLING SPECIMENS.--With each layer of
						specimens in a box place a label giving the date and place of capture and an accession
						number referring to a similar number in a note book giving any special data regarding
						the occurrence, song, food plant or other information concerning the specimens which may
						be of value in the future. When mounted each pin should bear below the insect a locality
						and date label and also an accession number referring to note book data. Without such
						labels a specimen is of little scientific value. Personally I would at any time rather
						have a label without a specimen than a specimen without a label. Dried specimens can be
						relaxed sufficiently for mounting by placing between thoroughly moistened layers of
						blotting paper in a tightly closed box or other receptacle for 10 or 15 hours. If the
						weather is very warm a drop or two of carbolic acid or alcohol had best be sprinkled
						over the blotting paper. The mold on specimens can be removed by using a camel's hair
						brush and alcohol to which a few drops of carbolic acid have been added.


					

					PRESERVING THE NATURAL COLORS.--Most Orthoptera retain their natural colors after drying, but the green or
						bright colored ones usually fade to a dull yellow or other hue. This can be prevented by
						placing the specimens, when first captured, in a solution of 19 parts water and one of
						commercial formalin. If on a long collecting trip, they should be packed closely enough
						to prevent jostling and should be removed, dried and mounted after two or three weeks'
						stay in the solution.
					
						Fig. 23. Showing manner of pinning Orthoptera, spreading wings, arranging antennæ,
							etc. (After Bruner.)
					
					PINNING SPECIMENS.--In pinning specimens of
						Orthoptera for the cabinet care should be taken to so locate and pass the pin as to hold
						solidly the insect and at the same time not interfere with its future study. In the
						locusts, katydids and other jumping forms the pin should be pushed through the right
						side of the metazona, inclining the point slightly backward so that it will pass through
						the metasternum, thereby holding the body rigidly in place. In the roaches, mantids,
						etc., it should be inserted behind the pronotum through the right tegmen near the middle
						of the body, care being taken not to run it through the base of any leg. After mounting
						and labelling, the pin should be run through the lid of a pasteboard box, or thin piece
						of cork placed on supports, far enough for the bottom of the specimen to be brought down
						to the level of the box cover or cork, the tibiae being folded back under the femora or
						the legs crossed so as to take up as little room as possible and yet be available for
						study. One specimen of each species should have the left tegmen and wing spread out and
						pinned at right angles to the body, so that the veining and color of the inner wing may
						be studied. The antennae, when long, should be bent back along the sides of the body.
						The "tray" or lid of specimens should then be placed in a drying cage, which is easily
						made by screening two sides of a narrow box standing on end with fine mesh wire, thus
						allowing the air to pass through and at the same time preventing the  specimens from becoming infested with the eggs of dermestids
						and other museum pests Small cleats tacked at intervals on the inside will serve to
						support the pasteboard trays. After drying for a week or so the specimens can be
						transferred to permanent cabinet boxes, which should be as nearly dust-proof as
						possible.
					Earwigs, small crickets and other minute forms should be mounted (as is the beetle in
						Fig. 24) with transparent glue or shellac on the tip of a small narrow triangular card
						through the base of which a pin has been run. Only a very small amount of the glue is
						necessary, it being most readily applied to the card with the tip of a wooden toothpick.
						The legs should be carefully spread before mounting and the body then pressed down
						firmly on the glued card, which should be placed at right angles on the left side of the
						pin with the head of the insect away from the person.
					
						Fig. 24. Showing method of gluing an insect on paper point. (After Banks.)
					
					MUSEUM PESTS.--On account of their bulky bodies
						Orthoptera are especially subject to the attacks of museum pests. Flakes of napthaline
						kept in each box will usually serve as a repellant for such pests. Each box should be
						examined three or four times a year, and if by dust, exuvia or other debris, the
						presence of pests is indicated, a few drops of carbon bisulphide should be poured in the
						box and the lid quickly closed. The vapor of this will soon destroy the eggs, larvæ or
						other living form of any pest.
				
			
		

		


			





			


				A DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUE OF THE ORTHOPTERA OF THE EASTERN UNITED
					STATES AND EASTERN CANADA.

				As represented in the territory covered by this work the order ORTHOPTERA, defined on p.
					24, may be subdivided into four classes or suborders, which in turn are represented by
					eight families.7 The suborders may
					be distinguished by the following:

				
					KEY TO SUBORDERS OF EASTERN ORTHOPTERA.

					a. Abdomen of both sexes terminating in horny forceps-like appendages; body
						short, narrow, more or less flattened; head horizontal, the mouth in front; tegmina,
						when present, leathery, very short, without veins, meeting in a straight line down the
						back; tarsi 3-jointed, usually without arolia. Suborder I. DERMAPTORIA, p. 42.
					aa. Abdomen not terminating in forceps-like appendages; tegmina usually
						membranous or parchment-like, thickly veined, not meeting in a straight line down the
						back, but usually overlapping.
					b. Legs of equal or nearly equal size, the hind femora not enlarged for leaping;
						organs for producing sound absent; tegmina and wings of nymphs, when present, in a
						normal position; ovipositor concealed.
					c. Body short, broad, oval, depressed; head almost wholly concealed beneath the
						pronotum, the mouth posterior when at rest; ocelli generally two; pronotum
						shield-shaped, transverse; legs with coxæ depressed and femora compressed. Insects of
						rapid motion. Suborder II. CURSORIA, p.
						59.
					cc. Body elongate, narrow; head free, not covered by pronotum, the latter
						usually longer than broad; ocelli three or wanting; legs slender, rarely depressed.
						Insects of slow motion.
						Suborder III. GRESSORIA, p. 114.
					bb. Legs of unequal size, the hind femora fitted for leaping, being much
						thickened and swollen, and usually much longer than the middle femora; organs for
						producing sound usually present; tegmina and wings of nymphs, when present, in a
						reversed position; ovipositor usually exserted so as to be plainly visible.
						Suborder IV. SALTATORIA, p. 148.
				

				7The eight families of
					Orthoptera hereinafter treated comprise all those represented in North America, with the
					exception of the Grylloblattidæ, a family founded by E. M. Walker
						(1914, 93) for a small wingless thysanuriform insect, Grylloblatta
						campodeiformis Walker, taken on Sulphur Mountain, Banff, Alberta, and therefore,
					for this work, extralimital. The females possess an exserted ovipositor, similar to that
					of certain Tettigoniidæ, and thereby differ from all other known non-saltatorial
					Orthoptera. Students interested in this remarkable insect, which forms a sort of "living
					fossil" or connecting link between the Orthoptera genuina as treated in this work and
					other more primitive orders of insects, as the Isoptera and Plecoptera, are referred to
					the paper by Walker (loc. cit.) and also to four others by Dr. G. C.
					Crampton, published in the Entomological News (XXVI, I915, 337; XXVII, 1916, 244; XXX.
					1910. 42. 64) and the Canadian Entomologist (XLIX, 1917, 213); also to one by Walker (Can.
					Ent., LI, 1919, 131).




				

				
					Suborder I. DERMAPTORIA. (DERMAPTERA. EUPLEXOPTERA.)

					This suborder is represented in the United States by the single family Forficulidae,
						which comprises those Orthopterous insects commonly known as "earwigs." They form a very
						compact and easily recognized group, though their relationship to other insects is
						somewhat difficult to ascertain. That they existed as far back as Mesozoic time is
						proven by their remains which have been found in the European rocks of that age, while
						in this country 20 or more fossil forms have been described by Scudder from the Tertiary
						formations of Cenozoic time, mainly from the famous Florissant Basin in South Park,
						Colorado. The first of the present living species described were placed by their author,
						Linneus, in the genus Forficula and assigned to the order Coleoptera.
						They were later shifted about from one order to another under the names Forficula,
						Forficulariae, etc., until 1831, when Latreille separated them from the other Orthoptera
						under the name Dermaptera, a name meaning "skin" + "wing" and already used by DeGeer in
						1773 for the entire group of Orthoptera. Other names since proposed for them have been
						Dermaptoptera by Burmeister and Euplexoptera by Westwood, both in 1839. By most American
						authors they have been hitherto regarded as a separate order under either the name
						Dermaptera or Euplexoptera. I prefer to treat them as a suborder of Orthoptera,
						coordinate with Cursoria, Gressoria, etc.

					
						Family I. FORFICULIDÆ. 8 THE EARWIGS.

						The living species of earwigs range in length from 2.5 to 37 mm., and have the body
							narrow and flat, the thorax and abdomen broadly connected; head short, more or less
							heart-shaped and horizontal; mandibles strong; antennæ 10- to 35-jointed, the second
							joint always very small; thorax short, often slightly narrower than the head and in
							our species usually almost square. The tegmina or wing covers are leathery or horny in
							texture, meet in a 8Burr
								(1911, 6) treats the earwigs of the world as a separate order, Dermaptera, and
								recognizes three suborders, Arixenina, Hemimerina and Forficulina, the latter, only,
								being represented in this country. I consider these as families of the suborder
								Dermaptoria. He characterizes his suborder Forficulina, the equivalent of our family
								Forficulidæ, very briefly as follows: 
									"Oviparous; eyes well developed; mandibles normal; fully winged or apterous;
										cerci modified into strongly chitinized horny forceps; inner lobe of maxilla
										with four apical teeth; not parasitic."
							 straight line down the back, are without veins and cover
							only a portion of the abdomen. The inner wings, when present, are usually very large,
							rounded, and bear numerous radiating veins which act like the bars of a fan in folding
							and unfolding the wings. When at rest, these wings are folded both lengthwise and
							crosswise beneath the protecting tegmina. They vary much in size and development even
							in the same species, and Burr (1910, 451) has well said that "the
							abbreviation of the wings is a very common character among earwigs and is absolutely
							valueless as a specific character, although it somewhat alters the superficial
							appearance of the specimens." The abdomen ends in a pair of appendages which somewhat
							resemble forceps, whence the family name Forficulidæ. These doubtless represent the
							cerci of other suborders of Orthoptera, and vary much in shape according to species
							but are always more simple in the female than in the opposite sex. Were it not for
							these appendages the earwigs would resemble very closely some of the Staphylinidæ or
							rove beetles of the order Coleoptera, the semblance being increased by most species of
							each group curving the abdomen upward when disturbed. Those species which possess
							inner wings use the forceps to aid in folding these organs after flight, and they
							perhaps also aid to some extent as clasping organs during the mating of the sexes. The
							legs are of nearly equal size, the hind femora not enlarged; tarsi never more than
							three-jointed and usually without pads between the claws. No organs for producing
							sound are present, and as far as known hearing organs are also absent. The sexes are
							distinguished by the structure of the forceps, or by the number of ventral segments in
							the abdomen, there being eight in the male and six in the female. In some tropical
							species the forceps are longer than the abdomen, while in others they are noted for
							the variety of their teeth and curves.
						Certain earwigs possess what are known as fœtidd glands," which open at the hind
							margins of the dorsal plates of the second and third abdominal segments. From these
							they can squirt forth to a distance of three or four inches a yellowish-brown liquid
							or emulsion, having the odor of a mixture of carbolic acid and c creosote. This is
							used for defense as a repellant against their enemies.
						Latreille (1831) states that: "The digestive canal of an earwig consists
							of an esophagus, a large elongated crop, and a short gizzard furnished internally for
							trituration with six ridges in the  form of lancets,
							separated by as many grooves. This gizzard opens by a valve into the stomach proper.
							Attached to the floor of the stomach are numerous hepatic vessels, each with a
							beak-like termination, a circumstance which removes these insects from the Coleoptera,
							where they were placed by Linnæus, and approximates them to the other Orthoptera. The
							stomach opens into a small intestine, which is followed by a cæcum and a rectum."
						The name "earwig" was given to these insects in Europe, where they are abundant and
							better known than in this country. There it is a common belief among peasants and the
							uneducated masses that they will, when opportunity offers, enter the ears of human
							beings and injure the sense of hearing. Such belief is, of course, nonsensical, the
							insect being wholly harmless. Howard (1902, 346) states that an early advocate of the
							doctrine of similia similibus curantur
							9 prescribed earwigs, dried,
							pulverized and mixed with the urine of a hare, as a remedy for deafness.
						Like the members of the family Blattidæ, the flat body enables earwigs to live in
							cracks and crannies in walls and floors, beneath rubbish and the barks of logs and
							stumps, or between the bases of the leaves and the stems of rushes and grasses. From
							these retreats they come forth only by night, some to feed upon dead insects, small
							snails and other sluggish moving forms, while others live chiefly upon decaying
							vegetable matter, but often do much damage by eating ripe fruit, tender shoots and
							corollas of flowers, etc. 10
							They seem to prefer damp situations, and the majority of species occur mainly among
							reeds and beneath debris near the borders of lakes, rivers or the sea. Latreille 11 says: "These insects are very
							common in cool and damp places, frequently collect in troops under stones and the bark
							of trees, are very injurious to our cultivated fruits, devour even their dead
							congeners, and defend themselves with their pincers, which frequently vary in form,
							according to sex." Like other nocturnal insects they are attracted by light, and on
							the ground beneath the electric lights of cities in Florida and Old Mexico, the writer
							has found one or two of them in numbers.
						The female earwig is said to brood over the eggs. but to abandon the young soon after
							they are hatched. In this she resembles some of our common myriapods of the genus Lithobius, which are often found beneath logs and rubbish curled up
							around their eggs, 9Like
								things are cured by like things. 10See under Forficula auricularia, p.
								58.
							11In Cuvier's Animal
								Kingdom, 1831, IV, 5.
							 but which are never seen in company with the young.
							Kirby and Spence, in their renowned classic (1859, 204), citing DeGeer (1773,
								548), mention this habit as follows: "This curious insect so unjustly
							traduced by a vulgar prejudice, approaches the habits of the hen in her care of her
							family. She absolutely sits upon her eggs as if to hatch them, and guards them with
							the greatest care. DeGeer, having found an earwig thus occupied, removed her into a
							box where was some earth, and scattered the eggs in all directions. She soon, however,
							collected them one by one with her jaws into a heap, and assiduously sat upon them as
							before. The young ones, which resemble the parent except in wanting elytra and wings,
							and, strange to say, are as soon as born larger than the eggs which contained them,
							immediately upon being hatched creep like a brood of chickens under the belly of the
							mother, who very quietly suffers them to push between her feet, and will often, as
							DeGeer found, sit over them in this posture for some hours." Fischer (1853,
								62) also states that "the female lays the eggs, guards and even carries them
							about, so that they can always enjoy the moisture necessary for their
							development."
						About 400 species of earwigs have been described, mostly from tropical and
							semitropical countries, where they are common in the cities along the sea coast. Many
							of the species are cosmopolitan in distribution, their form enabling them to hide
							readily in the crevices of ships and their cargoes, and thus be borne to all parts of
							the earth. Inland, especially in temperate and cold regions, they are scarce. In
							Indiana, for example, only three species are known, and in all Canada but one, while
							in Florida 9 of the 12 species hereafter treated have been taken. Their wide
							distribution by commerce has led to much confusion in synonymy, some of the species
							having been described under a dozen or more names.
						Only 15 native or established species of earwigs are at present known from America
							north of Mexico. Of these 12, belonging to three subfamilies, occur in the territory
							covered by this work. The principal literature treating of these is as follows:12
						Scudder, 1876b, 1876c, 1876d; Rehn, 1903; Burr, 1910, 1911, 1911a; Caudell,
								1913, 595; R. & H., 1914e; Hebard, 1917.

						
							KEY TO SUBFAMILIES OF FORFICULIDÆ.

							a. Second tarsal joint cylindrical, not prolonged beneath the third.
							b. Antennæ with 16 to 30 segments, the fourth, fifth and sixth together
								rarely longer than the first. I. LABIDURINÆ, p.
									46.
						

						12For full titles of papers
							see the Bibliography.


						

						
							bb. Antennæ with 11 to 15 segments, the fourth, fifth and sixth together
								longer than first (Fig. 25, a.) II. LABIINÆ, p. 49.
							aa. Second tarsal joint lobed and prolonged beneath the third. (Fig. 25, c); antennæ with 12 to 15 joints. III. FORFICULINÆ, p. 54.
						

						
							Fig. 25. a. Basal joints of antennæ of Labia
								showing relative proportions of segments; b, same of Prolabia; c, tarsus of Forficula showing
								lobe of the second segment. (After Caudell.)
						

						(After Caudell.)


						
							Subfamily I. LABIDURINÆ.

							Body not strongly flattened; pro- and mesosterna not narrowed behind; legs stout
								and short; abdomen slightly dilated beyond the middle. Two genera occur with us,
								easily separated as follows:

							
								KEY TO GENERA OF LABIDURINÆ.

								a. Tegmina and wings wholly wanting; sixth joint of antennæ a little
									longer than broad; cheeks behind the eyes, when viewed from above, slightly longer
									than the eyes. (Fig. 26, c.).
									I. ANISOLABIS.
								aa. Tegmina and wings present; sixth antennal joint no longer than broad;
									cheeks no longer than the eyes. (Fig. 26, b.)
									II. LABIDURA.
							

							
								I. ANISOLABIS
									Fieber 1853, 257 (Gr., "unequal" + "forceps.")

								Body long, rather slender, wholly apterous, of nearly equal width throughout;
									antennæ scarcely half the length of body; second and third abdominal segments
									often with small lateral folds or tubercles; subgenital plate rounded, male,
									triangular, female; forceps short, pointed, the right leg curved in more than the
									left, male, short and nearly straight, female. Two cosmopolitan species occur in
									North America. 13

								
									KEY TO NORTH AMERICAN SPECIES OF ANISOLABIS.

									a. Antennæ 24-jointed; apical third of antenna without pale segments.
											1. MARITIMA.
								

								13A single specimen of
									a third, Anisolabis (Euborellia) ambigua Borelli, described from
									Costa Rica and frequent in the West Indies, has been recently taken by Hebard at
									Miami, Fla. It is probably only an adventive not as yet established in
									Florida.


								

								
									aa. Antennæ 15 or 16-jointed; one or two segments of apical third of an
										tennæ pale. 2. ANNULIPES.
								

								
									1. ANISOLABIS MARITIMA
										(Géné), 1832, II, 224. Seaside Earwig.

									Blackish or dark mahogany-brown, shining; legs and under surface yellowish;
										antennæ pale brownish-yellow, pubescent, 24-jointed. Legs of forceps of male
										remote at base, finely crenulate within, strongly curved inwards; of female
										contiguous at base, crenulate within, feebly curved and usually slightly crossed
										and bent upward at tip. Length of body, 18-20; of forceps, 3 mm.
								

								Dunedin, St. Petersburgh, Sarasota, Cape Sable, Long Key and Key West, Fla., Dec.
									20-Mch. 25. (W. S. B.). Frequent throughout the winter beneath
									piles of seaweed, boards, half buried logs and other debris just above high water
									mark, where it lives as a scavenger. When their cover is removed they run about
									with abdomen curved upward and forceps widely opened, ready to nip any approaching
									enemy. Recorded also by Rehn, Hebard and Davis from numerous localities along the
									east coast of Florida between Jacksonville and Key West; January-September. This
									is a cosmopolitan species occurring in this country along the coast from Maine to
									Texas, and is seldom found far from salt water. Morse (1919a, 21)
									states that along the New England coast it hibernates as an adult, the eggs being
									laid in summer.

								
									2. ANISOLABIS ANNULIPES14
										(Lucas), 1847, LXXXIV. Ring-legged Earwig.

									Black or dark brown, shining; legs and under surface yellowish, the middle
										of femora and base of tibiæ usually annulate or ringed with fuscous; antennæ
										reddish-brown, paler at base, 15- or 16-jointed, the third and fourth joints
										from apex usually pale, the last two dark. Forceps of male with legs contiguous
										only at base, of female nearly contiguous throughout; in both sexes crenulate on
										inner edge and curved upward and inward at tips, more strongly so in male.
										Length of body 9-11; of forceps 1.5-2 mm.
								

								Lakeland and Ft. Myers, Fla., Feb. 13-23 (W. S. B.) ; Key West
									and Delray, Fla., Jan. 19-July 7 (Hebard) ; Agr. College, 14This species was
										recently assigned to Euborellia Burr, a genus erected for
										those species which "agree generally with Anisolabis, in which
										genus it was formerly included, but which are distinguished by the possession of
										rudimentary elytra which are never free, but attached to the mesonotum." (Burr,
										911, 30.) Later (1915, 545) he says that the genus Euborellia
										"is now very much altered," the validity of the feature of the rudimentary wings
										as a generic character having been rightfully questioned by Zaher. "A remarkable
										fully winged aberration of annulipes having been discovered,
											Euborellia will now contain totally apterous and also fully
										winged species. It is now to be defined by characters of the genitalia of the
										male," which he describes and then adds: "Perhaps this feature may be regarded
										as a generic character," Caudell (Ms.) states that he doubts the validity of Euborellia, as it is "based wholly on a concealed genital
										character present only in the male sex." Since Burr also seems to doubt the
										sufficiency of his characterization based only on the male genitalia, this
										earwig is here retained under the name by which it has long been known, Anisolabis annulipes.
									 Miss. (Weed). This species occurs
									beneath rubbish in both dry and damp localities; also beneath signs on trees, and
									a single specimen was taken at Lakeland from beneath a pile of old paper on the
									floor of a vacant house. Davis (1914, 192) recorded the finding of a
									female and sixteen young in a cell under an old railroad tie at Pablo Beach, Fla.,
									Sept. 27, 1913. R. & H. (1905, 31) state that at Key West it was
									taken in numbers by Hebard beneath coquina rocks, sometimes in company with A. maritima, and also with one or two large scorpions.
								This, the A. azteca of Scudder (1876b, 251) and of
										Caudell (1905, 216) is also a cosmopolitan species, widely
									distributed by commerce. The first specimens recorded from the United States
											(R. & H., 1904, 778) were
									collected at Thomasville, Ga., though specimens at hand were taken by H. E. Weed
									at Agricultural College, Miss., 20 years before. Adventive specimens have been
									recorded from Massachusetts, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, and the District of
									Columbia, but its range in this country as given by Hebard (1917,
										313) is from Raleigh, N. Car., and Macon, Ga., southward and westward
									along the coast to Texas, being "generally distributed and numerous in southern
									Florida, the Florida keys and southern coastal California." It ranges much farther
									inland than does maritima, from which it can be readily
									distinguished by its shorter and narrower body, ringed legs and pale postapical
									joints of antennæ.

							

							
								II. LABIDURA
									Leach, 1815, 118. (Gr., "forceps" + "tail.")

								Body long, slender, not strongly depressed; tegmina and wings both well
									developed; antennæ with 27--30 joints, the first clavate, as long as the fourth to
									sixth inclusive; abdomen somewhat swollen or convex, especially above, the second
									and third segments without lateral folds or tubercles; first tarsal joint equal to
									the other two united, second not lobed.

								
									3. LABIDURA BIDENS
										(Olivier), 1791, 466. Striped Earwig.
									Color somewhat variable, usually reddish-brown; pronotum, and tegmina
										fuscous-brown with a median stripe and narrow margins dull yellow; abdomen dark
										brown above and below, the sides paler; legs and under surface, except abdomen,
										pale yellow; antennæ brownish-yellow. Tegmina one-half longer than pronotum, the
										surface rugose-granulate, as are also the short projecting tips of the wings.
										Abdomen more finely granulate, the anal segment with two small remote teeth.
										Forceps long, s slender, pointed feebly curved, their legs in male remote at
										base, their lower inner edges finely crenulate and with a blunt tooth just
										behind the middle;  those of female approximate at
										base, coarsely crenulate along the inner edge, the left one slightly overlapping
										the right at tip. Length of body, 13--20; of tegmina, 3.5--3.8; of forceps, ♂,
										7--11, ♀, 5--6 mm.
								

								Sanford, Dunedin, Ft. Myers, Moore Haven and Utopia, Fla., Dec.-Apr. (W. S. B.), numerous examples taken singly or in pairs beneath
									cover along the margins of ponds and lakes. It also occurs beneath debris along
									the seashore and is attracted by light. Rehn, Hebard and Davis record it from
									Lakeland, Miami, Key West, Punta Gorda and other points along the coast of
									southern and western Florida, March--Nov. R. & H. (1912, 237)
									state that individuals from Key West "were exceedingly repulsive owing to the fact
									that they emitted an odor suggesting carrion, but even more nauseating. This
									seemed to originate not from an ejected secretion, but from the oily surface of
									the body."
								This is also an introduced cosmopolitan species, its known range in the United
									States extending from Raleigh, N. Car., south and west to Louisiana and Texas. It
									is listed by Scudder (1900, 4) as Labidura riparia
									Pallas (1773, 727), described from Siberia, but Burr (1911,
										37) considers Olivier's species as distinct.
							
						

						
							Subfamily II. LABIINÆ.

							Burr (1911, 46) briefly characterizes his family Labiidæ (equivalent
								to our Labiinæ) as follows: "Antennæ with not more than 25 segments; second tarsal
								joint cylindrical; femora not compressed, smooth; pygidium free." Three of the four
								North American genera of this subfamily occur in our territory.

							
								Fig. 26. a, Labia rehni Heb., female X 7; b,
									head of Vostox; c, of Labia, showing length of
									cheeks behind the eyes; d, Doru davisi R. & H.. male. X 2.8.
									(After Caudell and R. & H.)
							


							

							
								KEY TO GENERA OF SUBFAMILY LABIINÆ.

								a. Cheeks as viewed from above shorter than the eyes. (Fig. 26, b); sixth antennal joint much shorter than the first. I. VOSTOX.
								aa. Cheeks as viewed from above as long as or longer than the eyes (Fig.
									26, c.); sixth antennal joint as long as, or but slightly
									shorter than, the first.
								b. Body pubescent; fourth antennal joint cylindrical, as long as third
									(Fig. 25, a.); smaller, not over 7 mm. in length, including
									forceps. II. LABIA.
								bb. Body glabrous; fourth antennal joint more or less conical, distinctly
									shorter than third (Fig. 25, b.); larger, 8 to 10 mm. in length,
									including forceps. III. PROLABIA.
							

							
								I. VOSTOX
									Burr, 1911a, 59. (Without meaning.)

								Body flat, long, slender, the sides of abdomen straight; head broad, the sutures
									strong and deep; eyes large, prominent, longer than the first antennal segment;
									antennæ 14-15 jointed, the first joint no longer than 4th and 5th together;
									tegmina and wings present; tarsi long and slender, the first joint longer than the
									next two united; second and third abdominal segments with lateral folds; forceps
									of medium length, nearly straight, their legs not crossed at tips. "Allied to Spongiphora but differs in the smaller stature, longer and more
									slender tarsi with shorter second and longer first segments." (Burr, 1911, 51). One species is known from the United States.

								
									4. VOSTOX BRUNNEIPENNIS
										(Serville), 1839, 30. Brown-winged Earwig.

									Head, thorax and tegmina almost black, shining; abdomen, forceps and under
										surface dark chestnut brown; exposed portion of inner wings half the length of
										tegmina, yellow, dark brown at tips; legs brownish-yellow; antennæ pale brown.
										Forceps stout, tapering, pointed, incurved near tips, their legs crenulate along
										the lower inner edge and in male armed with a more or less prominent tooth at or
										in front of middle; in female with a large quadrate tooth at basal fourth.
										Length of body, 8.5 --9.5; of tegmina, 2.2; of forceps, 3--4 mm.
								

								Marion Co., Ind., Nov. 10--19, 1917; one male, three females and two nymphs taken
									by Philip Spong from beneath bark of dead beech. The male has the right leg of
									forceps only three-fourths the length of left one, and lacking the usual median
									tooth. Dunedin, Fla., Dec. 3 and Jan. 1, four females from beneath the close
									fitting bark of dead water oak, five feet above the ground; Okeechobee City, Fla.,
									March 6, a dozen or more beneath bark of dead maple in a former cypress swamp,
										(W. S. B.) Recorded also from St. Augustine, Palatka, Ormond
									and Enterprise, Fla. 
									(R. & H., 1916, 112), and
									taken in numbers by Hebard at Thomasville, Ga., from beneath bark of dead magnolia
											(R. & H., 1904, 778).
									Ranges from Pennsylvania, Southern Ohio (Dury), Central Indiana
									and Southern Illinois (Gerhard), south and west to Columbia,
									Texas, but usually rare wherever found (Hebard, 1917,
										315) ; from "New Jersey to Nebraska, Texas and Arizona" (Scudder). Serville's types were from Philadelphia.
							

							
								II. LABIA
									Leach, 1815, 118. (Gr., "a holder or forceps.")

								Body flattened, slender, the abdomen slightly widened at middle; head narrow, the
									sutures subobsolete; eyes small, not as long as first antennal segment; antennæ
									about half as long as body, 10--13-jointed, the segments obconical, about three
									times as long as broad; tegmina and wings present in our species; first and third
									tarsal joints equal, the second minute, simple, compressed; forceps seldom more
									than half as long as abdomen, those of male slightly or strongly curved,
									horizontal; of female simple, straight, incurved at tip, usually unarmed. Three
									species are known from this country.

								
									KEY TO NORTH AMERICAN SPECIES OF LABIA.

									a. Tegmina nearly twice as long as pronotum (Fig. 27); forceps of female
										unarmed on lower inner margins.
									b. Legs uniform brownish-yellow; last ventral of male with a prominent
										tooth projecting backward from middle of hind margin. 5. MINOR.
									bb. Legs more or less infuscated throughout and darker at base; last
										ventral of male unarmed. 6. CURVICAUDA.
									aa. Tegmina only slightly longer than pronotum (Fig. 26 a.); forceps of female armed with minute blunt teeth along the lower
										inner margins. 7. REHNI.
								

								
									5. LABIA MINOR
										(Linnæus), 1758, 423. Little Earwig.

									Body thickly clothed with fine yellowish pubescence. Head and sides of
										abdomen nearly black; mouth parts, antennæ, thorax, tegmina, exposed parts of
										wings and middle of upper side of abdomen, yellowish-brown; last segment of
										abdomen and forceps, reddish-brown; legs and last two joints of antennæ
										honey-yellow. Antennæ 10--12-jointed. Pronotum subquadrate, narrower than head,
										scarcely longer than broad. Tegmina nearly twice as long as pronotum, the wings,
										when at rest, extending fully half their length beyond their tips. Forceps of
										male rather stout, about three-fourths the length of abdomen, minutely toothed
										on inner edge. Length of body 4--5; of tegmina, 1.5; of forceps, ♂, 2, ♀, 1.2
										mm. (Fig. 27.)
								


								

								Grand Chain, Posey Co., Ind., May 12 (W. S. B.), one male from
									beneath the bark about the base of a sycamore tree; Marion Co., Ind., June 14 (H. Morrison), one female at light. A second specimen from Marion
									Co. was taken on the wing April 20 by Philip Spong. Probably occurs frequently
									throughout the State, but overlooked on account of its small size.
								This little earwig is an introduced European species which has become widely
									distributed in this country; ranging from Quebec and Ottawa, Canada, where it is
									the only earwig known, west to Nebraska and Manitoba and south to Georgia. It is
									recorded also from Southern California by Hebard (1917, 317).
										Burr (1897, 15) states that it is "common in England and may often
									be taken in June on hot evenings, flying about with Rove Beetles over flowers and
									dung-hills. In the cold weather it takes refuge among stones, in cracks, etc." Labia minuta
									Scudder (1862, 415) is a synonym.

								
									Fig. 27. Labia minor (L.) Female. X 4. Abdomen of male
										showing form of forceps. (After Lugger.)
								

								
									6. LABIA CURVICAUDA
										(Motschulsky), 1863, 2. Curved-tailed Earwig.

									Dark brown, the head often blackish; antennæ brown, the tenth or eleventh
										segment paler; legs brownish-yellow, the femora often blackish at base. Pronotum
										longer than wide, rounded behind. Abdomen slightly dilated, the last segment
										paler, impressed at middle, narrow, with a small tubercle each side above the
										insertion of forceps. Legs of male forceps remote and dilated at base, then
										strongly incurved and attenuated, meeting or overlapping at tips, and forming a
										semi-circle; of female nearly straight, contiguous, unarmed. Length of body 5.5;
										of tegmina, 1.5; of wings, 2; of forceps, 1--1.3 mm.
								

								A tropical cosmopolitan species taken in this country only at Long Key, Fla.,
									where it was found in numbers in March, 1910, by Rehn and Hebard (1912,
										237). It occurred only at the moist bases of the leaves in the dying tops
									of cocoanut palms which had been prostrated the previous year by a hurricane. More
									than 130 specimens were secured. One female guarding a tiny heap of eggs was
									noted. When uncovered she immediately started to remove these, taking two or three
									at a time to a spot an inch or two away. The types of Motschulsky were from
									Ceylon. The males of curvicauda are easily distinguished from those of minor by
									the much more strongly curved legs of the forceps and by the lack of  projecting tooth on the last ventral, while the
									females differ only in the color of the legs.

								
									7. LABIA REHNI
										Hebard, 1917, 317. Rehn's Earwig.

									Resembles L. minor in form, size, and pubescence. Color
										much as there, the sides of abdomen darker. Differs in having the eyes much
										smaller, only three-fifths the length of cheek, in minor only very slightly
										shorter than cheek; tegmina shorter, only a little longer than pronotum, in
										minor nearly twice as long as that organ; wings projecting beyond tegmina less
										than half the pronotal length, in minor fully the pronotal length. Forceps of
										female "with ventro-internal margins not attingent, not perfectly straight, and
										armed with microscopic, blunt serrulations." Length of body, 4.5; of pronotum,
										.9; of tegmina, 1.1; of forceps, 1.4 mm. (Fig. 26, a.)
								

								Known only from the unique female type taken at Key West, Fla., July 7, 1912,
									from between boards in a woodshed. First recorded as L. minor
									(R. & H., 1914c, 377). An
									examination of the type at Philadelphia showed it to be very distinct from L. minor in the characters as given.
							

							
								III. PROLABIA
									Burr, 1911a, 60. (Gr "for" + Labia.)
								"Agrees generally with Labia but the segments of the antennæ
									beyond the third are all short, and generally more or less conical or pyriform."
											(Burr, 1911, 57.) Two species occur in the
									southeastern United States.

								
									KEY TO SPECIES OF PROLABIA.
									a. Segments of apical half of antennæ fusiform; last ventral segment of
										male only twice as broad as long, the pygidium quadrate; inner wings usually
										present, shorter than tegmina in the form burgessi. 8. PULCHELLA.
									aa. Apical segments of antennæ strongly clavate; last ventral of male
										three times as broad as long, the pygidium tapering behind; inner wings absent.
											9. ARACHIDIS.
								

								
									8. PROLABIA PULCHELLA
										(Serville), 1839, 42. Handsome Earwig.
									Dark, chestnut-brown, shining, glabrous; apical third of abdomen and forceps
										reddish-brown; antennæe dusky, paler at base, 13--15 jointed; legs pale yellow.
										Pronotum slightly longer than broad, sides straight, hind margin broadly
										rounded. Tegmina half as long again as pronotum; exposed portion of wings, when
										present, half as long as tegmina, brownish-fuscous with a yellow spot at base.
										Forceps of male slender, about half as long as abdomen, their legs widely
										separated at base, gently curved, each with a large subbasal tooth on inner
										lower margin, and usually a smaller one at apical third on upper margin; of
										female with legs approximate at base, slightly upturned and incurved on apical
										half, the left one crossing the right near tips, the inner lower edge crenulate,
										and with a blunt tooth at base. Length of body 6--6.5; of tegmina, 1.6; of
										forceps, 2.3--2.5 mm. (Fig. 28.)
								

								
									Fig. 28. Male of form burgessi X 4. (After R.&H.)
								



								

								Ormond, Gainesville, Sanford, Miakka and Dunedin, Fla., Nov. --Apr. (W. S. B.). Common beneath bark of dead pine trees and taken also, but much
									less frequently, from beneath that of magnolia and oak; the winged form much less
									common than the wingless (burgessi Scudder). Occurs throughout
									Florida except on the Keys. Widely distributed over the Southern United States,
									ranging from Raleigh, N. Car., and central Alabama south and west to Waco, Texas.
										R. & H. (1904, 779) record the taking of more than 150
									specimens during several visits to a single dead magnolia tree near Thomasville,
									Ga. Serville's type was from Niagara, N. Y., and was probably an adventive at that
									place. This is one of the few native earwigs of this country, and has been
									described under at least five different names, viz., pulchella
									Serv., guttata, burgessi and melancholica
									Scudder, and unidentata Burr nec. Beauv. The fact that the
									preapical teeth of the male forceps are often absent has led to part of this
									synonymy.

								
									9. PROLABIA ARACHIDIS
										(Yersin), 1860, 509. Brown Earwig.
									Dark, chestnut-brown, glabrous, mouth parts and antennæ dull yellow; legs
										brownish-yellow, the femora often with a fuscous tinge at base. Antennæ 11- to
										14-jointed. Pronotum quadrate, paler at the sides. Tegmina one-half longer than
										the pronotum; inner wings usually abbreviated or wanting. Forceps of male
										slightly more than half as long as abdomen, feebly curved, each leg with a very
										small basal and preapical tooth on inner edge; of female one-third as long as
										abdomen, the inner edge finely toothed, the legs incurved and crossing at tips.
										Length of body, 6.5--8; of tegmina, 1.3--1.5; of forceps, ♂, 2.4, ♀, 1.8
										mm.
								

								Brighton, Mass., Feb. 1, a number of adventive specimens taken from a slaughter
									house (Morse). A tropical cosmopolitan species taken at
									Homestead, Fla., by Rehn & Hebard (1914c, 377) July 10--12. They
									were found in the greasy kitchen of a boarding house, and after dark "would appear
									in numbers, accompanied by swarms of the roach, Periplaneta
										americana, but specimens of the earwig were secured with difficulty, as
									they were very active and scuttled away into cracks in the walls and tables at the
									first approach of a light." A single female is also recorded from Aiken, Fla.
											(Caudell, 1913, 598), and a number of adventive
									specimens from Boston, Mass. The type of Yersin was from southern Europe, where it
									occurs in and about houses. Labia brunnea
									Scudder (1876b, 258), described from Cuba, is a synonym.
							
						

						
							Subfamily III. FORFICULINÆ.

							Body moderately depressed, the abdomen more strongly so in our species; antennal
								segments cylindrical or subcylindrical, the  fourth not
								longer than third; second joint of tarsi dilated on each side to form a heart-shaped
								lobe and prolonged beneath the third. Two genera occur in our territory.

							
								KEY TO THE EASTERN GENERA OF FORFICULINÆ.

								a. Antennæ 12-jointed, the fourth segment twice as long as broad; legs of
									male forceps widely separated and feebly depressed at base and then only on the
									inner margin. (Fig. 29.) I. DORU.
								aa. Antennæ 14- or 15-jointed, the fourth segment less than twice as long
									as broad; legs of male forceps contiguous at base where they are strongly
									depressed and much broadened. II. FORFICULA.
							

							
								I. DORU
									Burr, 1907, 123. (Gr., "spear.")

								Antennæ with segments three and four nearly equal; pronotum longer than wide;
									inner wings (in our species) usually rudimentary; abdomen subparallel, feebly
									dilated; pygidium of male armed with a distinct tubercle or spine.

								
									KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF DORU.

									a. Form robust; spine of pygidium of male distinctly shorter than the
										last ventral segment. (Fig. 29.) 10. ACULEATUM.
									aa. Form much more slender; spine of pygidium of male as long as the
										last ventral. (Fig 26, d.) 11.
										DAVISI.
								

								
									10. DORU ACULEATUM
										(Scudder), 1876f, 262. Spine-tailed Earwig.

									Dark chesnut brown; palpi, legs, edges of pronotum and outer two-thirds of
										tegmina yellow. Pronotum longer than broad, narrower than head. Tegmina nearly
										twice as long as pronotum, truncate; inner wings usually aborted. Forceps of
										male, three-fourths as long as abdomen slender, curved, bent downward a little
										at basal third, becoming again horizontal a little before the tip, a pointed
										tooth present at second bend; of female shorter than those of male, their legs
										nearly straight, the lower inner edges very finely crenulate and usually
										contiguous for most of their length, the tips incurved. Length of body, ♂,
										8--11, 9, ♀, 7.5--10; of tegmina, ♂ and ♀, 2.5--3: of forceps, ♂, 4.7--6, ♀,
										3--3.5; of pygidial spine, ♂, .8-1 mm.
								

								
									Fig. 29. Doru aculeatum (Scudder.) Male X 2.5.
										(Original.)
								

								Posey Co., Ind., April 9; fifteen specimens from beneath rubbish and leaves in
									woods along the north bank of the Ohio River, one mile southwest of Mt. Vernon;
									Kosciusko Co., Ind., June 24, a dozen or more taken by sweeping sedges and high
									marsh grasses along the edges of James Bay, Tippecanoe Lake (W. S.
										B.).  Mineral Springs, Oct. 2 (Gerhard). Agricultural College, Mich., July 14 (Weed).
									Ranges from New Jersey and southern Michiigan west and south to Nebraska, Georgia
									and Louisiana.
								Hebard (1917, 322) states that three specimens from Morgan City,
									La., are the only ones known having the inner wings fully developed. This earwig
									is usually found only on grasses and sedges growing near or even in water,15 and probably hibernates as
									imago beneath rubbish in the vicinity. Burr (1910, 464) and
										Caudell (1913, 596) have placed haculeatum as a
									synonym of Doru lineare (Esch.), but comparison with specimens
									of lineare in my collection from Orizaba, Mexico, show that
										Rehn & Hebard (1914e, 90) are fully justified in considering
									the two distinct.

								
									11. DORU DAVISI
										Rehn & Hebard, 1914e, 95. Davis's Earwig.

									Differs from aculeatum in its much more slender body, in
										having the forceps of male longer than abdomen, more slender, curving feebly
										downward in basal third, thence upward to apex, the preapical tooth wanting;
										pygidial spine of male distinctly longer and more acicular; the females differ
										from those of aculeatum only in the more slender form and in
										being somewhat paler. Length of body, ♂, 11-5, ♀, 8.3--8.5; of pronotum, ♂, 1.9,
										♀, 1.6; of tegmina, ♂, 2.7--3, ♀, 2.1--2.6; of forceps, ♂, 6.5--8.7, ♀,
										3.3--3.5; of pygidial spine, ♂, 1.8--2.2 mm. (Fig. 26 d.)
								

								The types of R. & H. were taken by W. T. Davis, May 2, 1912, from the South
									Bay of Lake Okeechobee, Fla. He states (R. & H., 1914d, 98) : "A winding path led along the shore of
									South Bay, between the water and the thick growth of custard-apple trees, and on
									the low tangled vegetation bordering this path we found D. davisi in considerable numbers." On March 2, 1913, this slender-bodied
									earwig was first seen by the writer when three pairs were taken on the north
									margin of Lake Okeechobee. On March 8 two additional males were found at Pelican
									Bay on the southeastern shore of the lake. At both places it was beaten or swept
									from vegetation within 50 feet of the border of the lake.
								In 1918 a second trip was made by me to Lake Okeechobee, one of the objects in
									view being a search for additional specimens of Doru davisi. On
									March 2, a single specimen was accidentally discovered while sifting for beetles
									in a low wet tract about five miles southeast of Moore Haven. The place where
									found was part of the old custard-apple margin of the lake, now drained and partly
									grown up to arrow-leaf, saw-grass and other semi-aquatic vegetation. After an
									hour's search the abiding place of 15Caudell, Proc. Ent. Soc., Wash., XVII, 1916, 217; Fox
										(1917, 206); Hebard (1917, 322).
									 the earwig was finally found to be between the bases
									of the leaves and stems of the arrow-leaf, and especially those of the saw-grass,
										Cladium effusum (Sw.), the latter plant being the one which
									almost exclusively covers thousands of acres of the Everglade Region south and
									southwest of Lake Okeechobee. Once located, the earwigs were found to be very
									abundant, 93 being taken in fifteen minutes by cutting off the clumps of grass
									just below the surface of the ground and shaking them over a rubber cloth. This
									incident is but evidence of the fact that almost any insect supposed to be rare is
									in reality plentiful enough once its favorite habitat or hiding place is
									discovered. The localities above given are the only ones at present known from
									which this handsome earwig has been taken. It will doubtless be found in southern
									Florida over much of the area covered by the saw-grass.
							

							
								II. FORFICULA
									Linnæus, 1758, 423. (L., "scissors.")

								Antennæ in our species 14--15-jointed, the fourth joint obconical, half the
									length of third, 7--14 cylindrical, more than four times as long as broad;
									pronotum almost square, the hind angles rounded; wings slightly surpassing
									tegmina; abdomen not expanded at middle, the third and fourth dorsal segments with
									lateral folds; first tarsal joint slightly longer than third; second short,
									dilated and lobed at apex, passing beneath the third. One widely distributed
									species occurs with us.

								
									12. FORFICULA AURICULARIA
										Linnæus, 1758, 423. Common European Earwig.

									Dark reddish-brown; basal joints of antennæ, sides of pronotum, hind margins
										of abdominal segments, forceps and legs paler; tegmina and wings dull yellow.
										Tegmina one-half longer than pronotum. Forceps of male about as long as abdomen,
										their legs flattened and broadened at base, then usually curved almost into a
										semi-circle, armed on the inner side at base with a large quadrate crenulate
										tooth, and another at beginning of curve; legs of female forceps slightly
										curved, crenulate on inner margin and crossing at tips. Length of body, 10--12;
										of tegmina, 2; of forceps. ♂, 4--7, ♀, 3 mm.
								

								While adventive examples of this cosmopolitan species have been recorded a number
									of times from the eastern United States, it did not become established as a
									resident member of our fauna until about 1912, when a colony appeared at Newport,
									Rhode Island, which was first reported by Glaser (Psyche, XXI, 1914,
										157). This has increased so rapidly in numbers and threatens to become
									such a pest that a special bulletin16 treating of it has been 16D. W. Jones, Bull. 566, U. S. Dep. Agr.,
										June 18, 1917.
									 prepared and issued by the U. S. Bureau of
									Entomology. In this it is stated that the sexes mate in late autumn, the male
									dying soon after. The female soon deposits 50 to 90 eggs in the ground and then
									hibernates near them at a depth of two to eight inches, those which survive
									emerging in the spring to attend the larvæ in their early stages. The young appear
									about May 5th, and, passing through four larval stages, become adults by the
									middle of July. As larvæ they feed on the tender green shoots of clover, grass,
									lima beans and on the buds and petals of dahlias, roses and other cultivated
									plants. The adults feed largely on the stamens and petals of flowers, doing
									immense damage where present in such numbers as at Newport, where Jones says that
									on one estate, when the porch awnings were let down each morning, over a quart of
									the earwigs dropped out and were swept up and burned, and that 300 specimens were
									seen by him at one time in one of the servants' halls. By 1916 the colony had
									spread over ten square miles of territory. As remedies poison baits of stale bread
									and Paris green proved very effective in early spring, and poison and contact
									sprays later in the season.
								In my former work (1903, 171) I recorded this earwig, on the authority of
										Rehn (1903, 125), as having been taken at Lafayette, Ind., by the
									late F. M. Webster. Caudell (1907a, 170), has shown that the
									specimens so recorded were taken by Webster in Tasmania. Burr (1897,
										16) states that in England auricularia is well known to
									every one and is quite ubiquitous, but its home seems to be under bark of trees,
									planks, stones, on flowers, fruit, etc. Latreille (1831, 6) says that
									the two sexes of this species when in coitu, are united end to end, a statement
									not substantiated by any other author.
								Aside from the species above considered but one other earwig has been recorded
									from the eastern United States. This was an adventive example of Spandex percheroni (Guer. & Perch.), a Brazilian species, taken in
									Massachusetts, and described by Scudder (1862, 415) as Spongophora bipunctata. It was recorded by him (1900, 6) as Forficula percheroni Guer.-Perch., and by Caudell (1913, 599)
									as Psalis percheroni. The three extralimital species from North
									America not included in this work are: (1). Spongovostox
										apicedentatus (Caudell), a native species known only from Arizona; (2). Chelisoches morio (Fabr.), a tropical adventive form now
									established at Menlo Park, California, and (3). Doru lineare
									(Esch.), a Mexican and South American form which occurs also in Texas, Arizona and
									Southern California.
							
						
					
				

				

				
					Suborder II. CURSORIA.

					This suborder, as characterized in the key, p. 41, contains only one family, the
						Blattidæ, which is represented in all parts of the earth. The name Cursoria, derived
						from the Latin and meaning "runner," was first used by Latreille (1817) to
						comprise all the non-saltatorial Orthoptera, or the earwigs, cockroaches, mantids and
						walking-sticks. Westwood in 1839 restricted the name Cursoria to the Blattidæ or
						cockroaches, giving to the other groups the names Euplexoptera (Forficulidæ),
						Ambulatoria (Phasmidæ) and Raptoria (Mantidæ). Fieber, in 1853, united the last two in
						the one suborder Gressoria. The characters of the suborder Cursoria are those of its
						single family as given below.

					
						Family II. BLATTIDÆ THE COCKROACHES.

						
							
								"On every dish the booming beetle falls,
								The cockroach plays, or caterpillar crawls;
								A thousand shapes of variegated hues
								Parade the table or inspect the stews.
								When hideous insects every plate defile,
								The laugh how empty and how forced the smile."
							
						

						The members of the family Blattidæ, commonly known as cockroaches, may be known from
							the other families of non-saltatorial Orthoptera by their depressed, oval form; by
							their nearly horizontal head which, when at rest, is bent under and almost concealed
							by the broad pronotum, so that the mouth projects back between the bases of the first
							pair of legs; by their slender, depressed legs of almost equal length and size, and by
							the absence of either ovipositor or forcipate appendages at the end of the
							abdomen.
						They have the antennæ setaceous, rarely swollen and plumose near base, inserted just
							below the middle of the eyes, composed of very many exceedingly short segments and
							often longer than the body; mandibles strong, toothed; maxille with 5- and labium with
							3-jointed palpi; eyes usually large, reniform, finely facetted; ocelli or simple eyes
							usually present in the fully winged forms, located near the inner borders of the
							antennal sockets, absent or greatly reduced in size when the wings are abbreviated or
							wanting, and then often represented by small, pale ocellar spots; pronotum generally
							more or less elliptical or suborbicular, with rounded angles, and often projecting
							over the head; tegmina  membranous, corneous or leathery,
							usually more or less translucent and, when well developed, overlapping along their
							sutural margins; in the female of many species rudimentary or sometimes wholly
							wanting. Four main veins or nervures arise near the basal margin of each tegmen, their
							position and names being shown in Fig. 30. The wings are always shorter than the
							tegmina, but are usually fully developed when the latter are long, though sometimes,
							even then, rudimentary or absent. When the tegmina are reduced in size, the wings are
							correspondingly smaller. They are membranous in structure, often very delicate, the
							names and position of their principal veins being shown in the accompanying digram,
							Fig. 30.
						
							Fig. 30. Diagram of the left tegmen and wing of a Blattid. I, Marginal field; 2,
								scapular field; 3, discoidal field; 4, anal field; 5, anterior field; 6,
								intercalated triangle; 7, posterior field. Ms.--Mediastine vein; D, discoidal vein;
								C, costal veins; M, median vein; Mr., branches of median vien; U, ulnar vein; A,
								anal sulcus; Ax, axillary vein; R. radiate veins. (After Hebard.)
						
						The abdomen is large, broad, and composed of ten segments, each with a dorsal and a
							ventral plate ; however, only seven or eight of these are usually visible. The wing of
							first one behind the metanotum above is known as the median dorsal
							segment, the next as the basal or first dorsal
							segment. In the males of many species one or both of these have the upper surface more
							or less specialized or modified. The tenth dorsal plate is known as the supra-anal and its shape and structure are much used in classification. Nine
							ventral plates are visible in the male and seven in the female, the last one in both
							sexes being known as the subgenital plate. This in the male usually
							bears near its apex two small unjointed appendages called styles.
							The tenth dorsal segment also bears a pair of jointed appendages known as cerci, which vary much according to species, in length, number of joints, etc.
							The rings or segments of the abdomen overlap each other and are capable of great
							extension and depression, so that these insects seem to be pre-eminently fitted  for living in the narrow crevices and cracks which they
							inhabit. This peculiar structure was doubtless acquired when living beneath stones and
							bark before man came into being, and has enabled them, like the earwigs, to hide in
							the crevices of ships and especially in cargoes of fruit, and tropical and
							semitropical forms have thus been scattered to all parts of the earth.
						The legs of a cockroach are of a peculiar structure in that they have the coxæ very
							large and flattened, thus serving to protect the ventral surface of the thorax; femora
							long, compressed, their lower border with two keels or margins which are usually armed
							with spines, these varying much in size and number; tibiæ heavily armed with spines
							both above and beneath; tarsi 5-jointed, the first joint much the longest, the last
							one with two claws, with or without a lobe or arolium between them, the others usually
							each with a pad or pulvillus beneath. The structure of the legs enables the
							cockroaches to run with such great swiftness that they seldom use the wings in trying
							to escape pursuit, and has given the name Cursoria or runners to the suborder of which
							they form the only family.
						From the other Orthoptera the Blattidæ differ widely in the manner of oviposition, as
							the eggs are not laid one at a time, but all at once in a peculiar capsule or egg case
							called an oӧheca. These capsules vary in the different species as regards the size,
							shape, and the number of eggs they contain, but they are all very similar in structure
							(Fig. 31). Each one is divided lengthwise by a membranous partition into two cells.
							Within each of these cells is a single row of cylindrical pouches, somewhat similar in
							appearance to those of a cartridge belt, and within each pouch is an egg.
						
							Fig. 31. Oӧtheca of Periplaneta americana (L.) a, side; b, end view. Natural size indicated by outline
								figure. (After Howard.)
						
						The female cockroach often runs about for several days with an oӧtheca protruding
							from the abdomen, but finally drops it in a suitable place and from it the young, in
							time, emerge. While this method of oviposition is the one practiced by all the species
							of common occurrence in the United States, there seem to be exceptions to it, as Dr.
							C. V. Riley has recorded (1891a) the fact of an introduced tropical species, Panchlora cubensis (Sauss.), being viviparous, the young emerging
							alive from the body of the parent,  and a careful
							dissection of the latter showing no trace of either eggs or oӧtheca.
						Shelford (1906, 235) states that "the position of the oӧtheca when
							carried by the female before deposition is not a character of subfamily importance." I do not regard it as even a character of specific importance, for in two females of each of two species of Parcoblatta at hand with oӧtheca protruding, viz., uhleriana
							and pennsylvanica, one of each has the oӧtheca projecting with edge
							uppermost, the suture above, the other with side uppermost, the suture at side.
								Hebard (1917a, 4) has also recorded the females of P.
								pennsylvanica "with oӧtheca both dorsad and laterad," and has mentioned also
							two closely related species of Cariblatta with similar
							conditions.
						All young cockroaches resemble the parent in form, but are wholly wingless, the wings
							not appearing until after the fifth or last moult. The young are often mistaken for
							the mature by persons who have not made a careful study of the life history of the
							insects; and those of one or two well known and common forms have, in the past, been
							described or figured as distinct wingless species by some of the leading Entomologists
							of the country.
						Most roaches are omnivorous but they live chiefly upon animal and vegetable refuse.
							The majority of our species, especially those which are natives, live under leaves,
							bark and other cover in the country, but many of the introduced species are
							domiciliary and where present in numbers are among the worst of insect household
							pests. In Brazil they are so common in country houses that nobody pays much attention
							to them. There they have, says Herbert H. Smith, "an unpleasant way of getting into
							provision boxes and they deface books, shoes and sometimes clothing, and eat off the
							wall paper in unsightly patches in search of the paste beneath. At Corumba, in the
							house where we were staying there were nearly a dozen children, and every one of them
							had their eyelashes more or less eaten off by the cockroaches, a large brown
							species. The eyelashes were bitten off irregularly, in some places quite close to the
							lid, and as the children had very long black eyelashes, their appearance thus
							defaced was odd enough."

						REMEDIES FOR ROACHES.--A
							common remedy for roaches consists in the liberal use of pyrethrum powder or buhach,
							and when this is persisted in considerable relief will be gained. It is not a perfect
							remedy, however, and is at best but a temporary expedient, while it has the additional
							disadvantage of soiling the shelves or other objects over which it is dusted. When
							used it should be fresh and liberally applied. Roaches are  often paralyzed by it when not killed outright, and the morning after an
							application the infested premises should be gone over and all the dead or partially
							paralyzed roaches swept up and burned. Flour of sulphur dusted about where roaches
							abound has proven very effective as a repellent.
						Another remedy which may be used for any of the household species is a mixture of
							plaster of Paris, one part, and flour, three or four parts; in a saucer, and placed
							where the roaches abound, with another flat plate nearby, containing pure water, both
							supplied with several bridges to give easy access, and one or two thin boards floating
							on the water touching the margin. The insects readily eat the mixture, become thirsty
							and drink, when the plaster sets and clogs the intestines. The insects disappear in a
							few weeks, the bodies no doubt being eaten by the survivors.
						There are many proprietary substances which claim to be fairly effective roach
							poisons. The only one of these that has given very satisfactory results is a
							phosphorous paste, also sold in the form of pills. It consists of sweetened flour
							paste containing 1 to 2 per cent. of phosphorus, and is spread on bits of paper or
							cardboard and placed in the runways of the roaches. It is also a repellent.
						For no other insects have so many quack remedies been urged and are so many newspaper
							remedies published. Many of them have their good points, but the majority are
							worthless. In fact, rather than put faith in half of those which have been published,
							it were better to rely on the recipe current among the Mexicans : 
								"TO GET RID OF COCKROACHES.--Catch three and put them in a bottle, and so carry
									them to where two roads cross. Here hold the bottle upside down, and as they fall
									out repeat aloud three credos. Then all the cockroaches in the
									house from which these three came will go away."
							

						To the paleontologist interested in tracing back the ancestry of insects, the
							Blattidæ become at once a group of surpassing interest, for the oldest known insect is
							a fossil cockroach, Palæoblatta douvillei Brogn., from the Silurian
							sandstone of France. Between 130 and 140 fossil species of the family are known from
							the Paleozoic rocks of the United States, principally from the Carboniferous
							formations, but some from all ages as far back as the middle Silurian. That most
							eminent authority on insect paleontology, S. H. Scudder, has written of the cockroach:
							"Of no other type of insect can it be said that it occurs at every horizon where
							insects have been found in any numbers; in no group whatever can the changes wrought
							by time be so carefully and completely studied as here; none other has furnished more
							important evidence concerning the phylogeny of insects."
						The Blattidæ are pre-eminently tropical insects, and though abundantly represented in
							individuals, the number of species inhabiting the United States is comparatively few,
							but 43 and one variety being treated in Hebard's Monograph of the Group. These  are divided among nine subfamilies and 26 genera. Aside
							from several subtropical forms, which are often introduced in bananas and other fruit,
							but which soon die, and are, therefore, considered only as adventives, 30 species and
							two varieties or races are recognized as residents of the territory covered by this
							work. These represent ten of the subfamilies and 19 of the genera recognized by
							Hebard. Of the 30 species, 12 are established adventives, the other 18 being native or
							indigenous species, as are also the two races. In addition to these, three of the
							adventive species representing one additional subfamily and two genera, are included,
							as they are so frequently introduced with tropical fruits that they will probably be
							seen by many of our future students.
						Aside from the general works on Orthoptera cited in the Bibliography, the principal
							literature treating more or less extensively of the Blattidæ occurring in the Eastern
							United States is as follows:
						Saussure, 1863, 1869a, 1870, 1872; Brunner, 1865;
								Rehn, 1903, 1903a, 1903b; Shelford, 1906, 1907, 1907a, 1908, 1908a,
								1910a; Rehn & Hebard, 1910; Caudell, 1913;
								Hebard, 1916a, 1916b, 1916c, 1917a.
						The following key to subfamilies is mainly a composite of parts of those of
								Scudder (1897c, 12), Caudell (1913, 600) and Hebard
								(1917a, 11-22), the last named being a key to genera and species only. It
							must be remembered that a subfamily is only an artificial individual concept created
							for the purpose of facilitating the systematic naming of the species of any group.
							Subfamilies do not exist in nature and the recognition of them here is only to render
							shorter and more easily followed the keys to the genera of which they are composed.
							The characters of chief importance generally used in separating the subfamilies of
							Blattidæ are those pertaining to the armature of the lower border of the femora, the
							structure of the tegmina and wings, the form of the supra-anal and subgenital plates
							and the presence or absence of arolia and pulvilli. To these have been added other
							characters pertaining to size, color, etc., in order to enable beginners to more
							easily place their specimens.

						
							KEY TO EASTERN SUBFAMILIES OF BLATTIDӔ.

							a. Middle and hind femora armed beneath along one or both margins with two
								or more distinct spines; tegmina present, often abbreviated in the female.
							b. Pronotum and tegmina smooth or but sparsely haired or pilose.


							

							c. Supra-anal plate not bilobed; form not strongly depressed.
							d. Smaller, the pronotum less than 7 mm. in length; structure moderately
								delicate; styles of male not slender, elongate, straight processes of equal length;
								subgenital plate of female simple. I. PSEUDOMOPINӔ, p. 66.
							dd. Larger, the pronotum 7 mm. or more in length; structure heavily
								chitinous, femoral spines very heavy; styles of male slender, elongate, straight
								processes of equal length set in sockets on margins of subgenital plate (Fig. 34,
								F.); subgenital plate of female compressed so as to form a carina or ridge on its
								under side and divided so as to be bivalved (Figs. 32, C; 34, E.). IV. BLATTINӔ, p. 93.
							cc. Supra-anal plate weakly bilobed in both sexes; size medium, length of
								body, 15--20 mm.; form strongly depressed; tegmina and wings of female fully
								developed, falling slightly short of apex of abdomen; pronotum dark brown, bordered
								in front and on sides with yellow. III. EPILAMPRINӔ, p. 92.
							bb. Pronotum and tegmina rather densely clothed with fine, silky pubescence;
								very large, adventive species, 27 or more mm. in length. II. NYCTOBORINӔ, p. 91.
							aa. Lower margins of middle and hind femora unarmed, or armed with hairs and
								bristles only, or with one or two apical or sub-apical spines.
							e. Tegmina present in males, wanting in females of Arenivaga and Compsodes.
							f. Surface of pronotum and tegmina glabrous; anal field of wings folding
								like a fan; subgenital plate of female simple, except in Chorisoneura.
							g. First four tarsal joints each with a pad (pulvillus) beneath; ocellar
								spots present; wings without an appendicular field; supra-anal plate weakly
								bilobed.
							h. Smaller, length of body less than 25 mm.; hind margin of pronotum
								strongly obtuse-angulate at middle; blackish brown or pale green, the pronotum
								without discal spots; arolia present. V. PANCHLORINӔ, p. 103.
							hh. Larger, length more than 40 mm.; pronotum subelliptical, buffy with a
								blackish-brown central area containing pale markings; arolia absent. VI. BLABERINӔ, p. 106.
							gg. Fourth tarsal joint alone with a pulvillus beneath; ocelli and ocellar
								spots absent; wings with an appendicular field; supra-anal plate not bilobate;
								subgenital plate of female either simple or with a linear cleft or sulcus at apex;
								large arolia present; small species, length of body less than 10 mm. IX. OXYHALOINӔ, p. 111.
							ff. Surface of pronotum and tegmina hairy; anal field of wings not folding
								fan-wise.
							i. Ocelli of males minute, or wanting, the ocellar areas not defined;
								tegmina and wings usually present in both sexes and projecting beyond apex of
								abdomen (Fig. 49, D.); arolia and  pulivilli usually
								present; subgenital plate of female valvular; length of body less than 9 mm. VII. CORYDIINӔ, p. 107.
							ii. Ocelli of males large, the ocellar areas strongly defined; tegmina and
								wings absent in female (Fig. 49, F.); arolia and pulvilli absent; subgenital plate
								of female simple; length of body, 10 or more mm. VIII. POLYPHAGINӔ, p. 109.
							ee. Tegmina and wings wholly wanting; form elongate; color shining
								blackish-brown, glabrous; arolia wanting; subgenital plate of female wanting (Fig.
								43. D.) X. PANESTHINӔ, p. 113.
						

						
							Subfamily I. PSEUDOMOPINÆ.

							This subfamily, to which 16 of the 33 species of roaches found in our territory
								belong, is the equivalent of the Phyllodrominæ of most foreign authors, of the
								Blattinæ of Scudder (1897c, 12) and in great part of Caudell
									(1913, 601). Our eastern species vary greatly in size and in the
								development of the female tegmina, but agree in having the body glabrous; tegmina of
								a delicate structure; ulnar vein of wings, in all the genera but Symploce, with branches all complete to the apical margin; femora armed
								beneath; tarsal claws not toothed; arolia present.

							
								Fig. 32. A, Fore femora of Ischnoptera showing form of
									spination mentioned in a. of generic key to Pseudomopinæ; B,
									tegmen of Supella; C, ventral view of subgential plate of Periplaneta; D, pronotum of Supella; E, fore
									femur of Symploce, showing form of spination mentioned in aa. of key to Pseudomopinæ; F, pronotum of Periplaneta brunnea Burm.; G, pronotum of P. fuliginosa
									(Serv.); H. dorsal view of supra-anal plate and cerci of female of P.
										brunnea Burm. (After Hebard.)
							

							
								KEY TO EASTERN GENERA OF PSEUDOMOPINÆ.

								a. Lower front margin of fore femora armed on basal half with a row of
									stout spines, these abruptly succeeded on apical half by a row
									of much shorter and more delicate spinules (Fig. 32, A.).
								b. Fourth tarsal joint only with a pulvillus (small pad) beneath.
								c. Tegmina abbreviated, subtruncate behind, covering less than half the
									abdomen in both sexes; pronotum buffy with a lengthwise undulating blackish-brown
									band each side of middle, which extends backward onto tegmina; styles of male very
									short, broad and fused with the margin of the subgenital plate; length of body
									less than 10 mm. (Fig. 33, A.) I. AGLAOPTERYX,
										p. 68.
								cc. Tegmina fully developed (in our species), extending beyond apex of
									abdomen in both sexes; pronotum not distinctively marked  as above; styles of male elongate, heavy, contiguous at middle; length
									of body, 10.5-13 mm. (Fig. 33, B.) II. LATIBLATTELLA, p. 69.
								bb. Joints 1 to 4 of tarsi each with a pulvillus beneath; tegmina of males
									extending beyond apex of abdomen; of females not reaching apex except in Parcoblatta caudelli.
								d. Uniform blackish or brownish-black above, the tegmina of males often
									paler brown; sixth dorsal abdominal segment of male deeply emarginate at middle of
									hind margin, and bearing two minute projections which are armed above with
									elongate microscopic teeth; styles of male not deflexed, unequal, the right one
									the stouter and curved inward; tegmina of female subquadrate, obliquely truncate,
									their sutural margins feebly overlapping (Fig. 36.) VI. ISCHNOPTERA, p. 75.
								dd. Color not uniform blackish or brownish-black above; sixth dorsal of
									male without toothed projections; styles of male slender, deflexed, cylindrical
									processes, the right one slightly the longer. VII. PARCOBLATTA, p. 77.
								aa. Lower front margin of fore femora armed with a row of spines which
									decrease gradually in length and size toward apex (Fig. 32, E.); joints 1 to 4 of
									tarsi each bearing a pulvillus beneath.
								e. Ulnar vein of wings with all the branches reaching the apical margin;
									tegmina not truncate in female; hind margin of pronotum not obtuse-angulate at
									middle.
								f. Pronotum without two dark brown stripes; styles of male
									distinct.
								g. Larger, length of body 11--12 mm.; tegmina extending beyond abdomen,
									male, to its apex, female, their color pale brown with two darker brown blotches
									on basal half; pronotum clay-yellow, the disc brownish, darker at base (Fig. 32,
									B, D.); styles of male large, elongate, extending along the margin of subgenital
									plate. III. SUPELLA, p. 70.
								gg. Smaller, length of body 6--8 mm.; tegmina uniform pale
									brownish-yellow, variable in length in male, shorter than abdomen in female;
									pronotum brownish-yellow, disc marked with small spots of darker brown; styles of
									male similar, minute, rounded, their tips armed with curved spinules (Fig. 34, A,
									B.) IV. CARIBLATTA, p. 71.
								ff. Pronotum brownish-yellow with two stripes of darker brown; styles of
									male indistinct or wanting; tegmina extending beyond apex of abdomen in both
									sexes; length of body, 10.5--12.5 mm. (Fig. 35.) V. BLATTELLA, p. 73.
								ee. Ulnar vein of wings with some of the branches incomplete, not reaching
									apical margin; color uniform clay-yellow; tegmina of female subquadrate, truncate,
									much shorter than abdomen, their sutural margins feebly overlapping, of male
									reaching beyond apex of abdomen; hind margin of pronotum feebly obtuse-angulate;
									left style of male curved, twice as long as right one; length of body 11--14 mm.
									(Fig. 34, D.) VIII. SYMPLOCE, p.
									90.
							

							

							

								I. AGLAOPTERYX
									Hebard 1917a, 30. (Gr., "beautiful" + "wing.")

								Form rather broad, structure delicate; head broad, eyes widely separated; tegmina
									and wings alike in both sexes, the latter absent in our species; cerci short,
									flattened above, 12-jointed; apex of front femora with two long spines on lower
									margin. Other characters as given in generic key. One species, many times recorded
									from the Southern United States as Ceratinoptera diaphana
									(Fab.), occurs in our territory.
								
									Fig. 33. A, Aglaopteryx gemma Heb., male X 3; B, Latiblattella rehni Heb., female X 3; C, Cariblatta
											lutea (S. & Z.), male. X 4.5; D, Cariblatta lutea
											minima Heb., male X 4.5 (After Hebard.)
								

								
									13. AGLAOPTERYX GEMMA
										Hebard, 1917a, 32. Little Gem Cockroach.

									Head clay-yellow with a broad, dark brown band on under side between the
										eyes, this sometimes continued downward on the face; pronotum transparent buffy,
										its disc bordered in front and each side with a narrow blackish-brown stripe,
										this broadening toward base, disc also with an anchor-shaped cross-bar of dark
										brown; tegmina buffy with the black length. wise stripe of pronotum extending
										obliquely back along the anal field to suture and continuing along it to tips;
										dorsal surface of abdomen blackish-brown marked with dull orange; legs and under
										surface buffy, the abdomen margined with blackish-brown. Pronotum with front
										margin transverse, side margins broadly convex, hind margin feebly bisinuate,
										front and hind angles broadly rounded. Tegmina subquadrate, a little longer than
										wide, extending only slightly beyond first dorsal segment of abdomen; their tips
										broadly rounded. Oötheca 2.8x4.8 mm.; the suture with a row of 18 blunt teeth.
										Length of body17, ♂,
										7.5--8.9, ♀, 8.6--9.7; of pronotum, ♂, 2.7--3, ♀, 2.9--3.2; of tegmina, ♂ and ♀,
										3.5--4.1 mm. Width of pronotum, ♂, 3.8--4, ♀, 3.9--4.3; of tegmina, ♂ and ♀,
										2.5--3 mm. (Fig. 33, A.) 
								

								17The measurements
									following the descriptions of Blattidæ in this work are the extremes of the two
									sexes as given by Hebard (1917a). He, having had many more examples before him
									than are available to me, was able to show much better the variability in size of
									each species. The length of body is considered as the length from the vertex to
									the end of the subgenital plate of the dried insect.



								

								This prettily marked species has been taken by R. & H., Davis and others at
									Pensacola, River Junction, Newberry, Gainesville, Ortega, Miami, Long Key and Key
									West, Fla., and Nassau, Bahama Isles. North of Florida it is known from Georgia to
									Houston, Texas, in the states along the Gulf Coast, the type being from Mobile,
									Ala. In Florida it was found in winter and spring beneath bark, bases of leaves of
									cocoanut palm, limestone and coquina boulders and under signs attached to trees,
									the latter hiding place being a favorite one throughout its range.
							

							
								II. LATIBLATTELLA
									Hebard, 1917a, 36. (L., "broad" + "little cockroach.")

								Medium sized species of broad form and delicate structure having the eyes well
									separated, ocelli distinct; tegmina delicate, often much abbreviated in female,
									their scapular field broad; wings hyaline; subgenital plate of male fusing with
									the styles, of female produced; lower front margin of fore femora armed beneath as
									described in "a" of generic key and with three long, stout
									spines near apex; middle and hind femora armed beneath with elongate, moderately
									stout spines. Two species from the United States are described by Hebard, one of
									them from our territory.

								
									14. LATIBLATTELLA REHNI
										Hebard, 1917a, 38. Rehn's Cockroach.

									Dull yellow, the tegmina and wings almost transparent; head, face and disc
										of pronotum usually with numerous small blackish-brown spots legs and middle of
										abdomen above and beneath dull yellow; sides of abdomen, cerci and extreme bases
										of tibial spines dark brown. Head with inter-ocular area flattened. Pronotum
										broadest one-third from base, the sides thence rapidly converging and broadly
										rounded into apex, hind angles broadly rounded, hind margin truncate. Tegmina
										and wings very delicate, the former elongate with numerous veins. Sixth dorsal
										segment of male abdomen with a deep semicircular depression at middle, from
										which arises a large blunt knob covered with agglutinated hairs. (Fig. 34, C.)
										Subgenital plate of male triangular and upturned between the styles, which are
										stout and bent inward along its margins. Length of body, ♂, 10.7--12.9, ♀,
										10.8--12.2; of pronotum, ♂, 2.8--3.4, ♀, 3.1--3.7, of tegmina, ♂, 11.4--13.7, ♀,
										10.3--11.7 mm. Width of pronotum, ♂ and ♀, 4.2--4.7; of tegmina, ♂ and ♀,
										3.4--4.4 mm. (Fig. 33, B.)
								

								Dunedin, Fla., March 18, June 11; on the former date beneath bark of dead pine,
									on the latter at porch light; Bassenger, Fla., Feb. 28, by beating Spanish moss,
										Dendropogon usneoides (L.) (W. S. B.). Rehn, Hebard, Davis and
									others have recorded it under the names Blattella adspersicollis
									Stål, Neoblattella adspersicollis
									 Stål and N. detersa Walker, from
									15 different localities between Newberry and Big Pine Key, Fla., the 86 specimens
									examined by Hebard having been taken at all seasons of the year and principally
									beneath signs attached to trunks of pine trees. When disturbed they seldom attempt
									flight, but run about to hide in crevices in the bark or drop to the ground. The
									most northern point at which it has been found is Newberry, Fla.
							

							
								III. SUPELLA
									Shelford, 1911, 155. (Gr., "house.")

								Medium sized species of very slender form, having the eyes well separated, the
									interocular area flattened and raised to form a rounded angulation with the
									ocellar area; tegmina narrow, delicate, with 9 to 11 strongly oblique discoidal
									sectors; wings hyaline; subgenital plate of male elongate-triangular, fusing with
									the styles; of female large, broad, not strongly produced; legs very slender;
									front femora armed beneath as described in "aa" of generic key
									and with two unequal spines near apex; first tarsal segment longer than the others
									united.

								
									15. SUPELLA SUPELLECTILIUM
										(Serville), 1839, 114. Brown-banded Cockroach.

									Clay-yellow; head pale brown, face darker; pronotum with sides yellowish
										transparent, disc chestnut-brown, this hue often expanded to cover the entire
										basal third; tegmina variable, usually pale brown with a paler band at basal
										third separating two darker brown blotches (Fig. 32, B, D.); legs and under
										surface clay-yellow. Pronotum one-third wider than long, narrowed from basal
										third to apex, disc feebly convex; sides narrow, moderately deflexed, their
										margins slightly upcurved, all the angles rounded, hind margin feebly convex.
										Sixth dorsal segment of ♂ abdomen with a median, circular, deeply depressed area
										containing a low conical tuft of agglutinated hairs. Length of body, ♂, 11.4, ♀,
										11.5; of pronotum. ♂, 2.8, ♀, 3.5; of tegmina, ♂, 11.5, ♀, 8 mm. Width of
										pronotum, ♂, 3.6, ♀, 4.2; of tegmina, ♂ and ♀, 3.2 mm.
								

								A tropical species of wide distribution taken in the United States only at Miami
									and Key West, Fla. At the latter place Rehn & Hebard found it in small
									numbers, July 3--7, under the counters of a fruit store, in folds of old burlap
									bags, where it had as company four other species of circumtropical cockroaches. It
									is a house-dwelling species, varies much in color, and according to Shelford
										(1911) has been described under ten different specific names besides the
									one it rightfully bears; the first record from the United States, that of Rehn
									from Miami, Fla. (1903, 125), being one of these, Phyllodromiia
										cnbensis (Sauss.).
							

							

							
								IV. CARIBLATTA
									Hebard, 1916b, 148. (Carib + Blatta.)

								Very small cockroaches of a slender form; eyes well separated, inter-ocular area
									weakly flattened; tegmina delicate, not broad; wings hyaline; dorsal surface of
									male abdomen not modified; subgenital plate of male, in our species, broadly
									produced in the form of a quadrangle between the styles; lower front margin of
									fore femora armed as described in "aa" of generic key and with
									two unequal spines near apex.

								
									Fig. 34. Subgenital plates of Blattid--ventral views--A, of male of Cariblatta lutea (S. & Z.); B, of male of Cariblatta lutea minima Heb.; C, dorsal view of end of male abdomen of
											Latiblattella rehni Heb. showing specialized sixth segment;
										D, subgenital plate of male of Symploce lita Heb.; E, of
										female of Eurycotis floridana (Walk.); F, of male of same
										species. (After Hebard.)
								

								Ten species are known, mostly from the West Indies and northeastern South
									America, and from the regions in which the Carib Indians were native, whence the
									generic name. Of these one species and a geographical race occur in our
									territory.

								
									16. CARIBLATTA LUTEA
										(Saussure & Zehntner), 1893, 48. Small Yellow Cockroach.

									Pale brownish-yellow; head pale brown with a band between the eyes, and
										usually some spots on face, dark brown; disc of pronotum usually marked with
										numerous more or less distinct small brownish spots, the sides transparent;
										abdomen above usually maculate with blackish-brown; legs and under surface
										brownish-yellow, the abdomen often in great part darker. Pronotum one-third
										wider than long, widest at basal fourth, apex narrower than base, hind margin
										truncate, front one broadly rounded. Tegmina not quite reaching apex of abdomen,
										male, distinctly shorter, female, their tips rounded. Wings equal in length to
										tegmina. Male with produced portion of subgenital plate between the styles
										nearly three times as broad as long (Fig. 34, A.); styles in the form of small
										rounded knobs, slightly longer than wide, armed above with minute spinules
										directed forward. Subgenital plate of female large, boat-shaped, the apex
										broadly rounded. Length of body, ♂, 5.8--8.1, ♀, 7--9.5; of pronotum, ♂,
										1.8--2.1, ♀, 2.2--2.6; of tegmina, ♂, 5.2--6.6, ♀, 4.9--6 mm.  Width of pronotum, ♂, 2.6--2.8, ♀, 2.8--3.6; of
										tegmina, ♂, 2--2.1, ♀, 2.1--2.6 mm. (Fig. 33, C.)
								

								Ormond, Sanford, Lakeland, LaBelle, Moore Haven, Sarasota and Dunedin, Fla.;
									frequent in all stages throughout the winter and spring months beneath leaves,
									boards, decaying palmetto logs, piles of weeds and other cover on the ground,
									especially in dry sandy localities (W. S. B.). Recorded as Ceratinoptera lutea (S. & Z.) by Rehn, Hebard, Davis and
									others from Jacksonville, St. Augustine, LaGrange, Lakeland, Carrabelle and River
									Junction, Fla., June--Sept. Ranges from Roanoke Island, N. Car., west and south to
									Louisiana. A single example also recorded from Cuba (Hebard, 1917a, 51). This and its variety are among the smallest
									cockroaches found in our territory, and when uncovered run rapidly to find a new
									hiding place. A female with oötheca protruding was taken March 20, 1919. The
									o6theca was carried with suture at side, and was 2.2 X 3 mm. in size, with sutural
									edge slightly curved and bearing a row of minute widely spaced knobs.

								
									16a. CARIBLATTA LUTEA MINIMA
										Hebard, 1916b, 170. Least Yellow Cockroach.

									Differs from lutea only in its average smaller size,
										slightly paler color, shorter tegmina (those of male reaching base of apical
										fourth of abdomen), rudimentary inner wings and especially in the produced
										portion of the subgenital plate of male between the styles, which is much
										narrower, being subquadrate or slightly longer than wide. (Fig. 34, B.) The
										females are separable only by the smaller size and shorter tegmina of minima. Length of body, ♂, 5.4--7.7, ♀, 5.8--8; of pronotum, ♂,
										1.8--2.1, ♀, 2.--2.3; of tegmina, ♂, 3.6--5, ♀, 3.6--4.7 mm. Width of pronotum ♂
										and ♀, 2.6--3.3; of tegmina, ♂ and ♀, 1.7--2.2 mm. (Fig. 33, D.)
								

								Dunedin, Sarasota, Ft. Myers, Cape Sable, and Lake Okeechobee, Fla., Feb.
									23--March. 14 (W. S. B.). At Cape Sable it was found in numbers
									in the bases of the tufts of coarse grasses growing just back of the sea beach.
									Recorded as Ceratinoptera lutea (S. & Z.) by Rehn, Hebard
									and Davis from numerous localities in southern Florida and the Florida Keys as far
									north as Punta Gorda, March--Nov. Habits the same as those of typical lutea. In all the male specimens taken the form of projecting portion of
									subgenital plate is without apparent intergradation and minima
									is therefore retained as a distinct variety or southern race. Dunedin is the most
									northern point at which it has been taken.
							


							

							
								V. BLATTELLA
									Caudell, 1903b, 234. (L., "small" + Blatta.)

								Rather small, narrow species having the head long, almost hidden by the small,
									suborbicular pronotum; eyes well separated, interocular area not flattened,
									ocellar spots distinct; tegmina delicate, narrow, not abbreviated; wings hyaline;
									subgenital plate of male asymmetrical, of female large, convex, truncate; lower
									front margin of fore femora armed beneath as described in "aa"
									of generic key, and with three longer, unequal spines near apex; tarsal joints
									elongate, arolia very small.

								
									17. BLATTELLA GERMANICA
										(Linnæus), 1767, 668. German Cockroach.

									Dull brownish-yellow, the females often darker; all the limbs much paler
										than the body; disc of pronotum with two dark brown, longitudinal stripes
										separated by a yellowish one; antennæ dark brown, exceeding slightly the tips of
										the closed tegmina. Tegmina and wings of male extending to end of abdomen, those
										of female slightly longer. Body of male longer and narrower than that of female;
										middle of sixth abdominal segment with two deep, rounded fosse separated by a
										narrow ridge on basal portion and deeply concave behind; styles very minute, the
										left one the larger, small, rounded, decurved. Length of body, ♂, 10.5--11.4, ♀
										11--12.8; of pronotum, ♂, 2.4--2.8, ♀, 3--3.3; of tegmina, ♂, 9.7--10.2, ♀,
										10.8--11.9 mm. Width of pronotum, ♂, 3.1--3.7, ♀, 3.8--4.2 mm. (Fig. 35.)
								

								Abundant throughout Indiana, especially, in the cities and towns; Moore Haven and
									Sarasota, Fla., Jan. 25--Feb. 21 (W. S. B.). Recorded also from
									Gainesville, Miami, Big Pine Key and Key West, Fla., at the latter place swarming
									in a hotel cupboard (Hebard, 1917a, 59). Ranges
									throughout the United States and the greater part of Canada, being most abundant
									in the Central States. In addition to the two common names already given it is
									known as the "Water Bug," and Burr (1897, 24) states that in Russia
									it is called the "Preussenschabe" or Prussian Roach, while in Germany it is known
									as the "Russen" or Russian Roach. Piers (1918, 247) says that the
									local name in Nova Scotia is the "Yankee settler."
								In Indiana and the Eastern United States it is best known as the "Croton bug," so
									called because it made its appearance in New York City in numbers about the time
									the Croton Aqueduct was completed. It is a native of Central Europe, but like the
									Oriental roach, has become cosmopolitan. In Europe it is found in woods as well as
									in houses. In America it seldom, if ever, occurs in numbers in the country, but is
									one of the worst insect pests with which the inhabitants of the larger cities of
									the United States  have to deal. It is the most
									fecund of all roaches and the seasons of mating and hatching of the young are
									perhaps, more irregular than in any other species. Adult forms are evidently to be
									found at all seasons of the year, as I have taken them in December, April and
									October. It is not so much a lover of filthy surroundings as is the Oriental
									roach, and hence frequents more often than that species the dwellings of the
									better class of people. It delights in warm, moist places, and is especially
									abundant and destructive in buildings which are heated by steam. As an evidence of
									its abundance under favorable conditions it may be stated that in 1890 a single
									person captured for me over 30 adult specimens and fully half that number of
									young, in less than ten minutes, in the kitchen of the leading hotel of the city
									of Terre Haute. Where it once obtains a foothold and the surroundings of
									temperature and food supply are favorable, it is almost impossible to eradicate,
									as its small flattened form enables it to hide and breed in cracks and crevices
									which none of the other roaches can enter.
								
									Fig. 35. Blattella germanica (L); a, first
										stage; b, second stage; c, third stage; d, fourth stage; e, adult; f, adult female with egg case; g, egg case, enlarged;
											h, adult, with wings spread. All natural size except g. (After Howard & Marlatt.)
								
								Like many other omnivorous animals, Croton bugs find in wheaten flour a food
									substance which is rich in nutrition and easily digested, and so they prefer wheat
									breads and starchy materials to all other foods. On account of this liking they
									often do much harm to cloth bound books by gnawing their covers in search of the
									paste beneath.
								They also seem to have a peculiar liking for paints of various kinds, and Glover
										(1875, 132), states that in his office "They made a raid on a box
									of water colors where they devoured the cakes of paint, vermilion, cobalt and
									umber alike; and the only vestiges left were the excrements in the form of small
									pellets of various colors in the bottom of the box."



								

								The oötheca of the Croton bug is very light brown, a little over twice as long as
									broad, 7.5x3.5 mm., with the sides somewhat flattened and the edges parallel.
									Within it the eggs, thirty-six in number, are arranged in the usual two rows. It
									is carried about by the mother roach for several days with from half to
									three-fourths of its length protruding from the abdomen, and when dropped in a
									favorable place the young, evidently very soon, emerge from it; for in a bottle in
									which a female with protruding oötheca was placed at eleven o'clock p. m. the
									young were found to have emerged on the following morning at eight. They were then
									wholly white, except the lateral edges of the abdomen, where a blackish tinge was
									evident. By five o'clock in the afternoon of the same day, having meanwhile eaten
									their fill of moistened wheaten bread, they had become too large for their skins,
									and had moulted for the first time. They then measured 3 mm. in length, and the
									head, pronotum, abdomen, and apical half of antennæ were black, while the other
									two thoracic rings and the basal half of antennæ were a grayish white. The half
									grown young are very dark brown, with the first four or five segments bordered
									with yellow, and with traces of a lighter median stripe.
							

							
								VI. ISCHNOPTERA
									Burmeister, 1838, 500. (Gr., "slender" + "wing.")

								As restricted by Hebard (1917a, 61), this genus is represented in
									North America by only one species of medium size and less delicate structure than
									in the preceding genera. It has the head elongate; ocelli distinct; disc of
									pronotum in male with two broad, elongate impressions which converge behind;
									tegmina of male much surpassing the abdomen, their discoidal sectors weakly
									radiating; ulnar vein of wings with three to seven basal branches incomplete;
									tegmina of female and sixth dorsal abdominal segment of male as described in
									generic key; seventh dorsal abdominal segment of male with a narrow elevated ridge
									between the armed projections of the sixth segment; lower front margin of fore
									femora armed as described in "a" of key, and also with three
									stout unequal spines near apex; tarsi elongate, small arolia present.

								
									18. ISCHNOPTERA DEROPELTIFORMIS
										(Brunner), 1865, 87. Dark Wood Roach.

									Males very slender, their tegmina notably narrow; females larger and
										stouter. Color uniform dark mahogany brown, shining; tegmina of males often a
										paler brown; wings of male transparent, slightly infuscated,  the veins and front border pale brown; tibiæ, tarsi
										and sometimes the entire legs pale reddish-brown. Pronotum of male flat,
										semi-orbicular the sides strongly declivent, hind margin slightly rounded; of
										female much broader, less declivent, hind margin truncate. Inner wings of female
										small pads, shorter than tegmina. Subgenital plate of male with a broad
										impression at apex, styles as described in generic key; subgenital of female
										very broadly rounded at apex. Length of body, ♂, 11.7--17, ♀, 11.4--17.8; of
										pronotum, ♂, 3.2--4.4, ♀, 4--5.2; of tegmina, ♂, 14.1--19.6, ♀, 3.8--6.9 mm,
										Width of pronotum, ♂, 4.3--5.4, ♀, 4.9--7.3; of tegmina, ♂, 4--5.6, ♀, 4--6 mm.
										(Fig. 36.)
								

								This handsome native species, described by Brunner in 1865 from "Amerique du
									Nord," was not again recognized from this country until 1893, when specimens were
									taken by me on May 28 and June 18 beneath logs in a low sandy woods near Terre
									Haute, Ind. These I soon afterwards described and recorded (1893a, 160) as Temnopteryx deropeltiformis Brunner. On July 12, 1894, a single
									female was captured while feeding upon a fleshy fungus (Agaricus) in dense woods eight miles west of Terre Haute, in Marshall Co.,
									Ill.; while in June, 1902, a number were taken from beneath flat stones and
									rubbish on the tops of high hills near Wyandotte Cave, Crawford Co., Ind. These
									and the Vigo Co. specimens were described and recorded by me (1903, 177). Since
									that date the species has been found to be widely distributed over the Eastern
									United States, its known range being from West Creek, N. J., and Enola, Pa., west
									and south to Ottawa, Kansas, and Victoria, Texas.
								
									Fig. 36. Female, X 1.3 (Original)
								
								In Florida it has been taken by me at Ormond and Lake Okeechobee, March 1--April
									15, and, mostly as Temnopteryx deropeltiformis, Ischnoptera
										nigricollis or I. johnsoni has been recorded numerous
									times from Jacksonville and Cedar Keys south to Homestead and Key West. Hebard has
									shown (1917a, 63) that the single male from Crawford Co., Ind., described by me
									(1903, 186) as doubtfully that of Ischnoptera intricata sp.
									nov., was a freshly moulted male of T. deropeltiformis; as was
									also a small male from St. Augustine, Fla., described by Rehn (1903d,
										234) as Ischnoptera johnsoni; also that I.
										nigricollis
									Walker (1868, 118) is the same as Brunner's species.
								This handsome roach is essentially a ground-frequenting, forest-loving insect,
									hiding beneath cover in or about the edges of deep woodland, more frequently in
									damp places, and rarely taken beneath bark, signs or at lights. When uncovered the
									males often  fly actively away, while the females can
									but crawl, and that rather sluggishly for a Blattid, toward the nearest new hiding
									place. At a point four miles southeast of Moore Haven, Fla., a half dozen or more
									adults and numerous nymphs were taken March 1, 1918, from beneath weeds, grass and
									other debris washed up on the beach of Lake Okeechobee.
							

							
								VII. PARCOBLATTA
									Hebard, 1917a, 70. (Gr., "frugal" + Blatta.)
									THE WOOD-ROACHES.

								Medium sized species, the male with body oblong, rather narrow, the female
									broader, more compact; pronotum feebly convex, more strongly so on sides, that of
									male usually elliptical, more or less narrowed in front, the disc usually with two
									oblique impressions, its hind margin broadly rounded; in the female usually
									suborbicular, without discal impressions, the hind margin truncate; tegmina
									membranous, more or less translucent, extending beyond apex of abdomen in all
									males, not reaching apex in females except in caudelli, their
									discoidal sectors weakly radiating; wings hyaline, their ulnar vein feebly curved
									and with one to six basal incomplete branches; styles of male as described in
									generic key; front femora armed beneath as in Ischnoptera.
								Twelve species, all native to America, are recognized by Hebard, nine of which
									occur in the Eastern United States. Until Hebard issued his excellent Monograph
									(1917a), the species of this genus, as far as synonymy goes, were a badly mixed
									lot. This was due to the fact that the sexes differ so widely in appearance that
									they have been described as different species, and often placed in wholly
									different genera. Most of the original descriptions were made by foreign
									entomologists, who never saw a specimen in the field, and for that reason knew
									nothing of the relationship of the different individuals before them. However, the
									two sexes are so seldom found mating, that even the field naturalists cannot be
									certain as to their relationship. Previous to 1903, Saussure, followed by Scudder,
									had described both sexes of Temnopteryx as being short-winged,
									and the females of several species of Parcoblatta had been
									described as distinct species and placed in that genus. They had also stated in
									their "Keys to genera of Blattinæ" that in the genus Ischnoptera
										(Parcoblatta of Hebard) the "tegmina are completely developed or in the
									female rarely abbreviate." In my work of 1903 I first showed that the males of Temnopteryx were macropterous, and first properly correlated  the sexes of Parcoblatta
										pennsylvanica, and also concluded as the result of extended field work and
									comparisons, "that the species of Phyllodromia and Temnopteryx listed18 by Scudder in his Catalogue (1900, 8) are but the females of certain
									species of Ischnoptera," and they were first so placed, though
									not always correctly as to species, in my "Orthoptera of Indiana."
								Rehn & Hebard (1910), in studying all their known species of
									North American Ischnoptera (Parcoblatta), followed up this
									problem of sex correlation, and when through stated that "every species of the
									genus known from within our limits has the sexes correlated, with the result that
										Temnopteryx and Loboptera (with the
									exception of one species) are eliminated from our fauna." They failed, however, to
									properly place the sexes of several species, and thus left the group still very
									much confused.
								Hebard has shown that the males of each species of Parcoblatta
									have one or more of the dorsal abdominal segments modified or "specialized" in a
									different way, and has used this as the principal character in separating that
									sex. Since the removal or spreading of both tegmina and wings is necessary to see
									this character, and since the specialization is more or less microscopic in
									nature, an attempt has been made in this work to separate the males by more
									obvious characters, but the modification of the segments for each species is
									mentioned either in the key or in the descriptions.

								
									Fig. 37. Showing specialization of median and first dorsal abdominal segments
										of the males of Parcoblatta. A, of P.
											uhleriana Sauss.; B, P. zebra Heb.; C, P.
											virginica (Brunn.); D, P. lata (Brunn.); E, P. divisa (Sauss.); F, P. pennsylvanica
										(DeG.). (After Hebard.)
								

								
									KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF PARCOBLATTA.

									a. Female with inner wings absent and tegmina represented by very small
										oblong pads, separated by more than twice their width (Fig. 39, A.); male with
										dorsal segments of abdomen unmodified; head and pronotal disc shining
										blackish-brown; average length of body, ♂, 11.3; of tegmina, 12.7 mm. 19. BOLLIANA.
								

								18He did not, for some
									reason, list Temnopteryx deropeltiformis.


								

								
									aa. Female with inner wings present, often very short, and tegmina not
										as above; male with one or more of dorsal segments modified.
									b. Tegmina of female strongly abbreviated, covering not more than
										one-half the abdomen; males with disc of pronotum not distinctly darker than
										sides and nearly uniform in color with tegmina.
									c. Females shining blackish-brown, their tegmina subtriangular.
										separated by a space equal to one-fourth their width, their hind margins
										oblique; males pale brownish-yellow, their tegmina much wider than pronotum,
										their supra-anal plate only twice as broad as long, its apex broadly rounded;
										median dorsal abdominal segment of male with two raised ridges at middle each
										bearing on basal portion a heavy tuft of hairs (Fig. 37, A.); average length of
										body, ♂, 15.3, of tegmina, 17 mm. 20. UHLERIANA.
									cc. Females reddish-brown or brownish-yellow, the abdomen often darker,
										their tegmina subquadrate, slightly overlapping; males almost uniform
										brownish-yellow in hue.
									d. Length of body, ♂, not over 16.5, of tegmina, not over 17 mm.;
										females with tegmina covering only basal third of abdomen, their hind margins
										almost squarely truncate; tegmina of male but slightly wider than
										pronotum.
									e. Smaller and more slender, average size of pronotum of female, 3.5x4.4
										mm.; male with a large area at middle of median dorsal abdominal segment
										supplied with minute scattered hairs (Fig. 37, C.) and with supra-anal plate
										four times as broad as long, squarely truncate; pronotum of male elliptical,
										widest at middle, not distinctly narrowed in front; average length of body, ♂,
										13, of tegmina, 15 mm. 21. VIRGINICA.
									ee. Larger and broader, average of pronotum of female, 4x5.6 mm.;
										modified abdominal segment of male much as in uhleriana;
										pronotum of male longer, more narrowed in front, widest slightly behind the
										middle; average length of body, ♂, 14.6; of tegmina, 15.7 mm. 22. FULVESCENS.
									dd. Length of body, ♂, 17.5--21.5, of tegmina, 17.8--22 mm.; females
										with hind margins of tegmina broadly rounded; middle of median and first dorsal
										abdominal segments of male each with two feeble elevations convergent in front
										and supplied with a heavy tuft of hairs (Fig. 37, D.); average size of pronotum
										of ♀, 5.4x7.5 mm. 23. LATA.
									bb. Tegmina of female much less abbreviated, reaching beyond middle of
										abdomen, their tips never truncate; those of male delicate in structure and
										fully developed.
									f. Tegmina of female not surpassing the abdomen, sustained flight
										impossible; disc of pronotum of male, at least in part, darker than
										sides.
									g. Dorsal surface of abdomen dull yellow, banded with brown;  male with tegmina very delicate, and middle of
										median dorsal abdominal segment with a broad, heavy tuft of agglutinated hairs,
										and also with a low, hairy transverse ridge in front of this tuft (Fig. 37, B.);
										average length of body, ♂, 14.7, of tegmina, 15.2 mm. 24.ZEBRA.
									gg. Dorsal surface of abdomen not banded; tegmina of male dark brown,
										their margins paler; disc of pronotum distinctly darker than sides; seventh
										dorsal abdominal segment of male produced so as to almost wholly conceal the
										eighth.
									h. Larger, average size of pronotum of female, 5x6.1 mm.; median and
										first dorsal abdominal segments of male each concave at base, the concavity
										overhung with two elevations which are heavily supplied with hairs on the under
										surface (Fig. 37, F.); average length of body, ♂, 20.7, of tegmina, 21.2 mm. 25. PENNSYLVANICA.
									hh. Smaller, average of pronotum of female, 4.3x5.6 mm., its sides less
										strikingly pale; median dorsal abdominal segment of male alone modified as in
											pennsylvanica (Fig. 37, E.); average length of body, ♂,
										16.6, of tegmina, 18.6 mm. 25a. DIVISA.
									ff. Tegmina of female surpassing the abdomen, sustained flight possible
										in both sexes; size small, form slender; color pale brownish-yellow; two male
										abdominal segments modified as in lata; average length of body, ♂, 14, of
										pronotum, 3.1, of tegmina, 14.6 mm. 26. CAUDELLI.
								

								
									19. PARCOBLATTA BOLLIANA
										(Saussure & Zehntner), 1893, 40. Boll's Wood-Roach.

									Small slender species, the females stouter and more compact, with distinctly
										broader head and pronotum. Male with head, disc of pronotum and base of tegmina
										dark brown, shining, finely and sparsely pubescent with suberect yellowish
										hairs; legs, lateral margins of pronotum and apical portion of tegmina paler
										brown; ocellar spots and an area between the thoracic impressions dull yellow.
										Female chocolate brown, the legs usually darker than those of male. Ocelli well
										defined, male, represented by small spots, female. Pronotum widest slightly
										behind the middle, that of male with two distinct oblique impressions connected
										near base by a short transverse one. Tegmina of female as described in key,
										their outer margins straight, upcurved; inner ones obliquely rounded into apex.
										Supra-anal plate of male about twice as broad as long, feebly declivent toward
										apex; of female with a blunt median carina, the apex broadly rounded. Length of
										body, ♂, 10.1--12.8, ♀, 9--10.7; of pronotum, ♂, 2.7--3, ♀, 2.9--3; of tegmina,
										♂, 11.7--13.6, ♀, 1.7--1.9 mm. Width of pronotum, ♂, 3.6--4.2, ♀, 3.9--4.4; of
										tegmina, ♂, 3.8--4.6, ♀, 1.4--1.7 mm. (Fig. 39, A.)
								

								Ranges from Raleigh, N. Car., and Brunswick, Ga., north to southern Illinois and
									Nebraska City, Neb., and west and south to the Mexican border; not yet recognized
									from either Indiana or Florida. It is the only one of our nine eastern species of
									the  genus in which one or more of the dorsal
									abdominal segments of the male are not modified and the tegmina of the female are
									smaller and more widely separated than in any of the others. The 86 specimens
									recorded by Hebard were taken from 33 different localities within the range above
									mentioned between April 27 and July 21, a few at light, or trapped in molasses
									jars, but the habitat of most not mentioned. Brimley (1908, 16)
									states that it and other native roaches are all found near Raleigh N. Car., "under
									the thick covering of pine straw lying on the ground in pine woods." In the
									western part of its range it becomes much paler, in some specimens the head only
									being dark. The Kakerlac schefferi
									Rehn (1904g, 72) is a synonym.

								
									20. PARCOBLATTA UHLERIANA
										(Saussure), 1862a, 169. Uhler's Wood-Roach.

									Male.--Size medium, form rather slender. Nearly uniform pale
										brownish-yellow, tegmina often somewhat darker; head with a broad brownish
										stripe extending from between middle of eyes downward two-thirds the length of
										face. Ocelli distinct. Pronotum subelliptical, widest at middle, the angles all
										rounded, the discal oblique impressions rather deep. Cerci slender, 11-jointed,
										the fifth to ninth joints with inner apical angles slightly prolonged.
										Subgenital plate slightly keeled along middle of apical half, with a concavity
										each side of keel; styles short, awl-shaped, equal.
									Female.--Broader, with head wider. Color variable, usually shining
										blackish-brown, the legs, except the trochanters, and margins of tegmina
										chestnut brown; sometimes entirely dark reddish-brown except the abdomen.
										Pronotum suborbicular, widest near base, front margin rounded, hind one
										truncate, discal impressions absent. Tegmina as described in key, at most
										reaching base of second abdominal segment. Wings very rudimentary. Oötheca 3.4x6
										mm., its suture with a row of minute, well spaced conical projections, on each
										side of which is a moderately deep groove. Length of body, ♂, 13.3--16.5, ♀,
										9.8--14; of pronotum, ♂, 2.9--3.6, ♀, 3.4--4.2; of tegmina, ♂, 15.7--18.8, ♀,
										3.2--6.3 mm. Width of pronotum, ♂, 4.1--4.9, ♀, 4.8--6; of tegmina, ♂, 5.3--6.3,
										♀, 2.5--3.7 mm. (Fig. 38.)
								
								
									Fig. 38. Female. X 1.3. (Original.)
								

								Steuben, Marion, Lawrence and Crawford counties, Indiana, May 26-Aug. 7 (W. S. B.). The females were first described by me as Ischnoptera intricata sp. nov. (1903, 186). Those from Crawford Co. were
									found beneath cover on the slopes of high wooded hills, those from Steuben Co.
									beneath chunks near the border of a lake, two of the females (Aug. 7) with oötheca
									protruding. In Florida P. uhleriana is known only from Pablo
									Beach, Aug. 11 (Hebard, 1917a, 114). It ranges from
									Massachusetts  and Saginaw Bay, Mich., west to Iowa
									City, Iowa, and south to Florida and Mississippi.
								This is essentially a forest-loving species, usually occurring beneath leaves and
									other debris on or along the borders of heavy hardwood timber. The males are often
									attracted to light and the females to a bait of molasses. The latter sex appears
									to be much the more abundant, especially in Indiana, and 994 of the 1232 adult
									specimens examined by Hebard were females. The short separated tegmina and shining
									black color easily distinguishes them from allied species, while the males are
									with difficulty separated from those of fulvescens and virginica. Platamodes unicolor and Ectobia
										lithophila
									Scudder (1862, 417, 418) are synonmys, being based respectively on
									the male and nymph, while, as noted above, Ischnoptera intricata
									Blatch. (1903, 186) is the female, the type of that sex, as designated by Hebard,
									being a specimen taken in Crawford Co., Ind., July 2, 1902, and now in my
									collection.

								
									Fig. 39. Females of Parcoblatta X 3. A, P.
											bolliana (S. & Z.); B, P. virginica (Brunn.); C,
											P. fulvescens (S. & Z.); D, P. zebra
										(Heb.) (After Hebard.)
								

								
									21. PARCOBLATTA VIRGINICA
										(Brunner), 1865, 86. Virginia Wood-Roach.

									Male.--Size small for the genus, more slender than uhleriana. Uniform pale brownish-yellow, the disc of pronotum and
										sometimes the head slightly darker. Ocelli distinct. Pronotum as in uhleriana but smaller with oblique impressions more distinct. Tegmina
										wider than pronotum, but distinctly narrower than in uhleriana. Cerci slender, 10-jointed, none of the joints with inner apical
										angles prolonged. Subgenital plate roughly subquadrate, feebly concave near
										apex; styles shorter and less tapering than in uhleriana.
										Female small, more slender than in the preceding or the next species. Color more
										or less variable, usually with head and abdomen chestnut-brown, pronotum and
										tegmina dark reddish-brown,  their margins paler;
										legs and under surface brownish-yellow. Head broader than in ♂. Pronotum as in
											uhleriana but distinctly smaller. Tegmina quadrate, their
										sutural margins overlapping, hind margins subtruncate, usually slightly
										emarginate near the sutural angle, reaching the middle of second dorsal segment.
										Wings represented by small pads. Length of body, ♂, 11.5--15.4, ♀, 10.3--12.5;
										of pronotum, ♂, 2.7--3.6, ♀, 3.2--3.8; of tegmina, ♂, 12.8--16.7, ♀, 3.3--4.9
										mm. Width of pronotum, ♂, 3.4--4.4; ♀, 4.1--4.9; of tegmina, ♂, 4.3--5.7, ♀,
										2.7--3.3 mm. (Figs. 39, B, 40.)
								
								
									Fig. 40. Male. X 1.5. (After Lugger.)
								
								Frequent throughout Indiana, May 5--Aug. 22. Hibernates in the nymph stage
									beneath half buried logs and other debris, the males reaching maturity about May
									1st, when they are often gregarious beneath loose bark and under chunks and
									rubbish in open woods. The females mature a few weeks later, and in Indiana are
									found in July with oötheca protruding. Ranges from Maine to Minnesota, Nebraska
									and Kansas, south to North Carolina, Kentucky and Alabama. Frequents the borders
									of open woods and cultivated fields, being less of a forest-loving species than
										uhleriana. The males are frequently taken at light, but the
									females probably range but a short distance from their original hatching
									place.
								In "The Orthoptera of Indiana" this species was placed as a synonym of uhleriana, the females of that species being then unknown as such.
										I. borealis
									Brunner (1865, 133) is the male of virginica, he
									having described both sexes in the same work as distinct species of different
									genera. His type of virginica was from Draper's Valley, Va., and
									that of borealis from "Amerique du Nord."

								
									22. PARCOBLATTA FULVESCENS
										(Sauss. & Zehnt.), 1893, 36. Fulvous Wood-Roach.

									Male.--Size medium, form rather slender. Uniform pale brownish-yellow, the
										pronotum and legs sometimes darker; cerci usually dark brown. Pronotum
										subelliptical, widest slightly behind the middle, the oblique impressions of
										disc weakly defined, and apical angles more broadly rounded than the hind ones.
										Tegmina slightly narrower than in uhleriana. Cerci slender,
										11-jointed, none of the segments with inner apical angles prolonged. Styles
										slender, awl-shaped, the right one slightly the stouter and borne in a
										cup-shaped elevation or knob placed just beneath the apical margin of subgenital
										plate. Female--Larger than in uhleriana. Head and pronotum
										usually pale reddish-brown and apical halves of abdominal segments darker brown;
										tegmina reddish-brown, the sides paler; legs and under surface brownish-yellow.
										Tegmina and wings as in virginica, but  larger. Length of body, ♂, 12.5--16.5, ♀, 10.8--15.5; of pronotum, ♂,
										3.3--4, ♀, 3.8--4.9; of tegmina, ♂, 14--18.2, ♀, 3.1--5.6 mm. Width of pronotum,
										♂, 4.3--5.3 ♀, 4.6--6.6; of tegmina, ♂, 4.3--5.6, ♀, 3.3--4.7 mm. (Fig. 39,
										C.)
								

								Crawford Co., Ind., June 3. Ormond, Dunedin, Sarasota, Gulfport, Ft. Myers and
									Lake Okeechobee, Fla., Jan. 24--April 1 (W. S. B.). This roach
									is frequent near Dunedin, Fla., beneath drift, cow-dung, the base of thistle
									leaves, boards, etc., in dry, sandy localities, a female with oötheca protruding
									on March 28. Recorded also by other collectors from 18 additional localities in
									Florida, and is the only common member of the genus in that State, throughout
									which it doubtless occurs. Ranges from Long Island, N. Y., west to southern
									Indiana, Dallas Co., Iowa, and Arkansas, south and southwest to the southern keys
									of Florida, and Zavalla Co., Texas. Occurs under debris, bark of logs, etc.,
									usually in open pine woods of sandy regions. Treated by R. & H. (1910,
										439) as a southern variety of uhleriana, the males
									being very similar and distinguished mainly by the pale face, longer pronotum with
									discal impressions less distinct, and by characters of cerci and insertion of
									right style as above given. If Hebard has correctly placed the females of uhleriana, that sex is very different in the two species and fulvescens is a distinct and valid species mainly austral in its
									distribution.
								The oötheca of fulvescens is bean-shaped, very dark brown,
									about 3.8 X 8.5 mm. in size, the sutural edge being broadly curved and with about
									40 minute crimps or folds.

								
									23. PARCOBLATTA LATA
										(Brunner), 1865, 135. Broad Wood-Roach.

									Male--Size large, form robust. Pale reddish-brown, the head often in part
										darker; legs and margins of thorax and elytra yellowish translucent; antennæ,
										abdomen above and its sides beneath pale brown; cerci dark brown. Pronotum
										suborbicular, longer in proportion to its width than in the last three species,
										widest at middle, its oblique impressions distinct. Tegmina notably wider than
										pronotum, extending much beyond the abdomen. Supra-anal plate triangular, its
										apex broadly rounded. Subgenital plate feebly concave on right side near apex;
										styles slender, straight, awl-shaped. Female--Large, robust. Pronotum much
										larger than that of male, its front margin rounded, hind one truncate. Tegmina
										quadrate-ovate, reaching apex of second dorsal segment. Wings small, narrow,
										their tips acute. Supra-anal plate keeled above, its apex bluntly rounded.
										Subgenital plate strongly convex. Oötheca 4x9 mm., its suture feebly curved and
										with a row of about 30 small equidistant19 knobs. Length of body, ♂, 
											19 Hebard (1917a, III, 131) states
											that the oötheca of P. uhleriana and P.
												lata "are carried with the suture laterad." Specimens of both are at
											hand with the oötheca protruding with suture dorsad.
										 17.5--21.5, ♀, 15.7--22; of pronotum, ♂, 4.1--5.2,
										♀, 4.8--6.2; of tegmina, ♂, 17.8--22, ♀, 5.9--8 mm. Width of pronotum, ♂,
										5.4--6.7, ♀, 6.7--8.2; of tegmina, ♂, 5.2--6.8, ♀, 4.7--5.7 mm.
								

								Crawford, Gibson and Posey Cos., Ind., June 6--July 10, one male, numerous
									females; the latter sex most common and with oötheca protruding the latter part of
									June (W. S. B.). In Crawford Co. they were taken from beneath
									rocks on the sides and crests of the higher hills, especially in limestone glades
									where the red cedar abounds. In Florida it has been recorded from Jacksonville,
									Ortega, Gulf Hammock, Tallahassee, River Junction, Marianna and De Funiak Springs,
									March--Sept., and probably occurs only in the northern third of the State. Ranges
									from Delaware and Maryland west and south to St. Louis, Mo., and Beaumont, Texas.
									A single adventive specimen was taken in a house at Wellesley, Mass., by A. P.
									Morse.
								In the Southern States this roach is usually found beneath the loose bark of pine
									logs and stumps, or beneath signs attached to pine trees. It is the largest of the
									species of Parcoblatta whose males are pale brown in color, and
									is only equalled or exceeded in size by P. pennsylvanica. It was
									described by me (1903, 183) as Ischnoptera major
									S. & Z. (1893, 54), which name is a synonym of P.
										lata, but my description was the first one of the female. I.
										hyalina
									Scudder (1869, 307) and I. couloniana
									(R. & H., 1910, 433) nec Saussure
										(1862) are also synonyms.

								
									24. PARCOBLATTA ZEBRA
										Hebard, 1917a, 89. Banded Wood-Roach.

									Male--Rather small, slender. Head dull yellow, a brownish stripe extending
										from the ocelli down the face; disc of pronotum reddish-brown, sides translucent
										yellow, basal fourth darker brown; tegmina transparent, brownish-yellow; under
										surface and cerci dark brown, as is also the basal half of each dorsal segment
										of abdomen; legs yellow. Interocular space one-third that between the antennal
										sockets. Pronotum elliptical, widest at middle, all the angles, sides and hind
										margin broadly rounded, oblique impressions deep. Apical half of supra-anal
										plate concave and strongly bent downward, forming a transverse ridge at point of
										bend, the apex, broadly rounded. Cerci elongate, rather stout, the apical
										segment pale. Subgenital plate feebly concave each side toward apex; styles
										short, cylindrical, the right one slightly the larger and feebly curved.
										Female--Larger and more robust. Head yellow with a transverse bar of brown
										between the antennæ; disc of pronotum and tegmina reddish-brown, the sides of
										both transparent yellow; legs, middle of ventral surface of abdomen and narrow
										sides and apical half of each dorsal segment yellow. Interocular space much
										broader than in ♂. Pronotum widest near base, hind margin truncate. Tegmina
										reaching apex of fifth dorsal segment, sublanceolate, their tips rounded.
										Supra-anal plate triangular, projecting beyond apex  of subgenital plate, its apex obtusely pointed. Length of body, ♂, 13--16, ♀,
										11.5--14.5; of pronotum, ♂, 3.1--3.7, ♀, 3.7--3.9; of tegmina, ♂ , 13.9--16.1,
										♀, 6.9--7.7 mm. Width of pronotum, ♂, 3.9--4.7, ♀, 4.8--5.2; of tegmina, ♂,
										4.3--5.4, ♀, 3.6--3.8 mm. (Fig. 39, D.)
								

								Knox Co., Ind., June 8--9, one male, two females, taken from beneath a log in a
									cypress swamp (W. S. B.). Known elsewhere only from Havana and
									Pulaski, Ill., Rives, Tenn., Lakeview and Hattiesburg, Miss., West Monroe and
									Mansura, La., and Dallas and Victoria, Texas; May--Sept. Of the 12 specimens known
									to Hebard one was taken in a cavity of a dead sweet gum, two beneath a sign on
									pine tree and one at light.

								
									25. PARCOBLATTA PENNSYLVANICA
										(DeGeer), 1773, 537. Pennsylvania Wood-Roach.

									Male--Large for the genus, moderately broad. Head chestnut-brown, sides of
										face pale; pronotum with hind margin and disc dark brown, sides yellowish
										transparent, as are also the margins of tegmina for three-fourths their length;
										disc of tegmina reddish-brown; abdomen and cerci chestnut-brown; legs yellow,
										the tibiæ and tarsi often pale brown. Interocular space flattened, finely
										rugose, its width one-third less than that between antennal sockets. Pronotum
										sub-elliptical, widest slightly behind middle, hind margin feebly rounded,
										oblique impressions distinct. Supra-anal plate concave, its apical half often
										deflexed. Subgenital plate one-half wider than long, convex except near apex
										where it is narrowed and often concave near the styles. Left style slightly
										stouter and more deflexed than right one. Female--Large, robust. Color of ♂, the
										disc of thorax often paler; dorsal surface of abdomen dark chestnut-brown, its
										edges paler; middle of abdomen beneath pale. Head larger than in ♂, the
										interocular space equal to that between antennal sockets. Pronotum widest near
										base, hind angles more sharply rounded than in male. Tegmina variable in length,
										usually covering two-thirds or more of abdomen, their tips broadly rounded.
										Supra-anal plate triangular, feebly concave each side near base, its apex
										usually sharply rounded. Subgenital plate strongly convex, twice as wide as
										long, broadly rounded at tip. Length of body, ♂, 16.8--24.5, ♀, 12.7--18; of
										pronotum, ♂, 4.2--5.3, ♀, 4.3--5.8; of tegmina, ♂, 17.3--25.1, ♀, 6.4--13.9 mm.
										Width of pronotum, ♂, 5.4-6.9; ♀, 5.1--7.2; of tegmina, ♂, 5.4--7.7, ♀, 4.2--5.7
										mm. (Figs. 41, 42.)
								

								In Indiana the Pennsylvania wood-roach is the most common of our native species,
									having been taken in the State wherever collections have been made, beneath the
									loose bark of logs and old stumps. It is usually seen in the wingless stages, the
									mature individuals being common only from May 15th to October. The half grown
									young are of a shining, dark brown color, the dorsal surface of thoracic segments
									often paler. As the long-winged males are attracted by light, country houses are
									often badly  infested with them; and where food is
									scarce, the wall paper is sometimes much injured for the sake of the paste
									beneath. What the hordes of young which dwell under the bark of logs live upon is
									a question as yet unsettled, but the larvæ of other insects undoubtedly form a
									portion of their food, as in two instances I have found them feeding upon the dead
									grubs of a Tenebrio beetle; while living as well as decaying
									vegetable matter probably forms the other portion. The mating of the imagoes
									probably occurs in late spring and early summer, the newly hatched young being
									most abundant from mid-August until December. Females with oötheca protruding have
									been taken as early as May 19th and as late as September 3d. The young in various
									stages of growth survive the winter in the places mentioned, they being the most
									common insects noted in the woods at that season. Cold has seemingly but little
									effect upon them, as they scramble away almost as hurriedly when their protective
									shelter of bark is removed on a day in mid-January with the mercury at zero, as
									they do in June when it registers 100 degrees in the shade.
								
									Fig. 41. Male. (After Lugger.)
								
								The empty oötheca of this species are very common objects beneath the loose bark
									of logs and especially beneath the long flakes of the shellbark hickory. They are
									chestnut brown in color, from 5 to 9 mm. in length by 4 mm. in breadth, and are
									much less flattened than those of Blattella germanica. The
									dorsal or entire edge is slightly curved, or bent inward, after the fashion of a
									small bean, while the other edge is minutely serrate. The young, after hatching,
									evidently escape in the same manner as do those of the Oriental roach, as no break
									is visible in the empty capsule. The tegmina of the female are more variable in
									length than in other of our native species of Blattidæ, in two Indiana specimens
									at hand reaching the apex of the 7th dorsal segment, while in two others they
									cover only one-third the abdomen.
								
									Fig. 42. Female. X 1.5. (Original.)
								
								The Pennsylvania wood-roach ranges from Quebec and Ontario, Canada, and Scarboro,
									Maine, west to Minnesota, Nebraska and Kansas, and south to Thomasville, Ga., and
									Brownsville,  Texas. The female was first described
									by Scudder (1862, 419) as Ectobia flavocincta. This name was
									first correlated as the female of pennsylvanica in my Orthoptera
									of Indiana (1903, 179). The males have been described under five additional
									specific names, viz., borealis, couloniana and nortoniana
									Saussure (1862a, 166, 169) ; translucida
									Saussure (1864, 85), and inæqualis
									S. & Z. (1893, 36), and the female under one, marginata
									Scudder (1872, 251). The I. inæqualis S. & Z.
									of my former work (1903, 182) and of Rehn & Hebard (1910, 427)
									are shown by Hebard (1917a, 140) to represent only a color phase of
										P. pennsylvanica.

								
									25a. PARCOBLATTA PENNSYLVANICA DIVISA
										(Sauss. & Zehnt.), 1893, 40.

									Male--Differs from pennsylvanica in its usually smaller
										size and often slightly paler coloration, the dark disc of pronotum frequently
										divided by a paler line, and that of tegmina sometimes pale brownish-yellow
										instead of reddish-brown; also in having the median dorsal segment of abdomen
										alone modified, and the supra-anal plate subtriangular, its median portion
										narrower, more strongly concave and declivent. Females differ only in their
										smaller size and proportionally narrower pronotum, with its lateral margins less
										strikingly pale. Length of body, ♂, 13.8--17.6, ♀, 12.7--16.5; of pronotum, ♂,
										3.6--4.6, ♀, 3.7--4.9; of tegmina, ♂, 16.4--20.8, ♀, 7.2--10.8 mm. Width of
										pronotum, ♂, 4.8--6.2, ♀, 4.7--6.6; of tegmina, ♂, 5.1--6.6, ♀, 4--4.9 mm. (Fig.
										43, B.)
								

								Ranges from New Jersey and Pennsylvania, south and west to Thomasville, Ga., and
									Lafayette, La. Occurs under the bark of pine and sweet gum and beneath signs on
									trees; the females and young trapped in molasses jars. No definite fixed character
									of specific value separating this form from pennsylvanica has
									been pointed out by Rehn & Hebard in either their 1910 or 1916 papers, and the
									only one given by Hebard (1917a) is the lack of specialization in the
									basal abdominal segment of divisa. R. & H. (1916,
										115), state that "divisa is clearly a derivative of the
										pennsylvanica stock representing an adaptation of that type in
									the lower country of the southeastern States as I. p. inæqualis
									is in the central States," the difference being that intergraded specimens have
									been found between inæqualis and pennsylvanica
									but not between the latter and divisa. Hebard (1917a,
										134) states that "due to the decided individual variation found in divisa and the very great plasticity in pennsylvanica, rare females are most difficult to distinguish, as in them
									great convergence in many features usually of distinct value occurs." The
									measurements as given under the two forms show that in every case the maximum in
										divisa is greater than the minimum in pennsylvanica, and in several  instances both
									minimum and maximum of divisa fall between those of pennsylvanica. Taking these facts into consideration and after examining
									both forms as represented in the Davis and Philadelphia collections, I believe
									that divisa is but a southern race or variety of pennsylvanica and have so placed it above. Two females of divisa in the Hebard collection from Opelika, Ala., have the tegmina
									surpassing the abdomen.

								
									Fig. 43. A, Parcoblatta caudelli Heb., female; B, P. p. divisa (S. & Z.), female; C, Eurycotis
											floridana (Walk.), male; D, Cryptocercus punctulatus
										Scudd., female. (A, B & C X 3; D X 1.5.) (After Hebard.)
								

								
									26. PARCOBLATTA CAUDELLI
										Hebard, 1917a, 122. Caudell's Wood-Roach.

									Male--Size small for the genus, form slender. Head pale clay-yellow, the
										occiput, a transverse bar at middle of face, disc of pronotum and dorsal surface
										of abdomen brownish-yellow; tegmina pale brown; legs and under surface pale
										clay-yellow, the abdomen with a brownish tinge. Head and pronotum as in fulvescens. Tegmina fully developed, slightly wider than
										pronotum. Supra-anal plate with apex bluntly rounded and declivent. Cerci
										slender, elongate. Subgenital plate feebly convex, except near styles, where it
										is slightly concave, the apex almost truncate. Styles small, slender,
										cylindrical, subequal in length to the distance between their bases.
										Female--Smaller than ♂. Uniform pale brownish-yellow, the legs, margins of
										thorax and elytra paler. Interocular space broader than ♂, subequal in width to
										the distance between the antennal sockets. Pronotum suborbicular, widest just
										behind the middle, the disc with oblique impressions very faint. Tegmina shorter
										than in ♂, but extending beyond apex of abdomen. Supra-anal plate half as long
										as broad, subtriangular, the apex subacute and surpassing the hind margin of
										subgenital plate, the latter twice as wide as long, convex, its hind margin
										broadly wounded. Length of body, ♂, 12.2--16, ♀, 10.7--12.3; of pronotum, ♂,
										2.9--3.4, ♀, 3.2--3.6; of tegmina, ♂, 11.8--16, ♀, 11.4--11.8 mm. Width of
										pronotum, ♂, 3.9--4.7, ♀, 4.1; of tegmina, ♂, 3.9--5.2, ♀, 3.8--4 mm. (Fig. 43
										A.)
								

								Crawford Co., Ind., June 30, 1902, one female (W. S. B.).  Ranges from Virginia and District of Columbia west and
									south to southern Indiana, Arkansas and Waco, Texas; not yet known from Georgia or
									Florida. Nothing distinctive of its habits is known, except that one specimen was
									found beneath a sign. It is the smallest of the pale brown species of the genus
									and the male abdomen is modified like that of the largest, P.
										lata. The Indiana specimen above mentioned served as the female type of I. insolita
									R. & H. (1910, 450), a name which has been placed in synonymy by
									Hebard, as the male type proved to be that sex of a Texan species, P.
										desertæ R. & H.
							

							
								VIII. SYMPLOCE
									Hebard, 1916c, 355. (Gr., "woven together.")

								Rather small, pale, slender species having the pronotum of male evenly convex
									without discal impressions, its hind margin feebly prolonged backward at middle
									into an obtuse angle; discoidal sectors of tegmina longitudinal; discoidal vein of
									both tegmina and wings forked; subgenital plate of male asymmetrical; lower front
									margin of fore femora armed as described in "aa" of generic key,
									and also with three longer unequal spines at apex (Fig. 32, E). Six species are
									known, five from the West Indies and the one below.

								
									27. SYMPLOCE LITA
										Hebard, 1916c, 357. Unadorned Cockroach.

									Male--Pale reddish-yellow, translucent; legs and abdomen pale
										brownish-yellow, the apex of latter and cerci darker. Eyes large, ocelli
										distinct. Pronotum suborbicular, one-fourth wider than long, its sides
										declivent, their margins divergent behind and rounding into the hind margin.
										Tegmina very delicate, fully developed. Sixth dorsal abdominal segment with two
										small median basal depressions separated by a triangular ridge which is thickly
										clothed with hairs. Supra-anal plate much wider than long, its side margins
										armed with a row of minute spines. Subgenital plate with right margin oblique,
										prolonged and upturned at apex, the short right style with a spine at base; left
										margin concave near apex, the left style more slender, curved, twice as long as
										right one, and armed with two minute spines. (Fig. 34, D.) Female--Eyes smaller,
										interocular space much broader; hind margin of pronotum very weakly
										obtuse-angulate. Tegmina subquadrate, their hind margins subtruncate, with outer
										apical angles rounded. Wings much shorter than tegmina. Supra-anal plate
										triangular, its apex bluntly rounded. Length of body, ♂, 11.5--14, ♀, 11--12.3;
										of pronotum, ♂, 3.2--3.7, ♀, 3.4--3.7; of tegmina, ♂, 11.1--12.8, ♀, 3.9--4.8
										mm. Width of pronotum, ♂ and ♀, 4.1--4.6; of tegmina, ♂ and ♀, 3--3.7 mm.
								

								Known only from Key West, Fla., San Jose del Cabo, Lower California, and Vera
									Cruz, Mexico. The unique Key West male type was taken July 4, in a cupboard of a
									hotel in company with 
									Blattella germanica and Supella
									supellectilium, and was first recorded by Rehn & Hebard (1914c,
										378) as Ischnoptera rufescens (Beauv.). It is possible
									that the Key West type was only an adventive in our territory, it being the only
									Florida specimen known.
							
						

						
							Subfamily II. NYCTOBORINÆ.

							Large tropical species having the body velvety sericeous above; eyes almost
								contiguous; tegmina leathery in structure, reaching to or much beyond the apex of
								abdomen; apical half of lower front margin of fore femora armed beneath with
								numerous small spines of almost equal length; middle and hind femora armed beneath
								on hind margin with four to six large spines; joints 1 to 4 of tarsi with pulvilli
								beneath; supra-anal plate of both sexes triangularly produced; subgenital plate of
								female not compressed and bivalved.

							
								I. NYCTOBORA
									Burmeister, 1838, 501. (Gr., "night" + "food.")

								Two species of this genus occur frequently in the eastern United States, but only
									as adventives, being introduced with bananas and other tropical fruits. As both
									have been recorded from numerous localities, it is thought best to include them in
									this work, though there is little chance of them ever becoming established unless
									it be in extreme southern Florida.
								
									Fig. 44. Nymph of Nyctobora nioctivaga Rehn. (After
										Lugger.)
								

								
									(----). NYCTOBORA NOCTIVAGA
										Rehn, 1902d, 3. Great Brown Roach.

									Male--Dark chestnut brown, above thickly clothed with minute yellowish
										prostrate hairs; legs and under surface reddish-yellow, the face, middle of
										abdomen, tibiae, tarsi and cerci brownish-black. Antenna as long as the body,
										filiform. Pronotum widest near base, the sides thence regularly converging to
										the rounded apex, the latter therefore much narrower than base, which is broadly
										rounded. Tegmina extending much beyond apex of abdomen, their tips broadly
										rounded; anal field large, almost semicircular. Cerci stout, somewhat flattened.
										Subgenital plate with right margin longer and more oblique than left; left style
										more slender and twice the length of right one. Female similar to male but
										broader. Subgenital plate with sides straight, feebly converging, apex
										sub-truncate, slightly upcurved. Length of body, ♂, 30--35; of pronotum, 10; of
										tegmina, 38 mm. Width of pronotum, ♂, 13--14; of tegmina, 15 mm.
								


								

								Gibson Co., Ind., March 18, one male; Marion and Vigo counties, Ind., three
									nymphs; all taken about stores and probably introduced with bananas (W. S. B.). Hebard (1917a, 264) records it as an adventive
									from 20 localities ranging from Ontario and Massachusetts to Alberta and
									California. Rehn's type was a male from Machuca, Nicaragua. This is probably the
									species listed by Scudder (1900, 9) as N. holosericea Klug.

								
									(----). NYCTOBORA LÆVIGATA
										(Beauv.), 1805, 228.

									Thorax almost black, its apex and sides bordered with yellow, disk finely
										and rather thickly punctate Tegmina chocolate-brown, the margins of basal halves
										pale yellow; disk, except at base, punctate, like thorax, each puncture bearing
										a very short yellowish hair. Under surface and legs uniform dark brown.
									Often confused with N. limbata (Thunb.), but easily
										separated "by the shorter, more ovate form, much larger and nearly semicircular
										pronotum, with caudal margin nearly straight; by the shorter tegmina and wings
										which but slightly or not at all surpass, the apex of abdomen, by the more
										robust limbs, the much less velutinous surface and the uniformly colored coxæ
										and femora." (R. & H.) Length of body, ♂, 27.2, ♀,
										26.5--27.8; of pronotum, ♂, 9, ♀, 8.2--8.6; of tegmina, ♂, 23.5, ♀, 20.3--21.6
										mm. Width of pronotum, ♂ and ♀, 12--13.2; of tegmina, ♂, 10.7, ♀, 10 mm.
								

								This handsome roach is a native of Hayti and Jamaica, and adventive specimens
									have been taken at Toronto, Ontario, and in a dozen localities in New England, New
									Jersey and Pennsylvania. It has been recorded by Scudder, Rehn and Henshaw as N. sericea Burm. R. & H. (1914g, 121) have
									treated the synonymy of N. lævigata in detail.
							
						

						
							Subfamily III. EPILAMPRINÆ.

							Medium sized, strongly flattened tropical species, having the antennæ setaceous;
								tegmina and wings fully developed, the ulnar vein of wings with about 11 incomplete
								branches; supra-anal plate weakly bilobate in both sexes; styles of male slender,
								set in sockets. A single genus is represented in southern Florida.

							
								I. LEUROLESTES
									Rehn & Hebard, 1914c, 379. (Gr., "flat" + "plunderer.")

								Pronotum not covering vertex of head, its hind margin very broadly rounded; lower
									front margins of fore femora armed beneath on basal half with a few short, heavy
									spines, on apical half with numerous very short spinules and with a single long
									spine at apex; other femora armed with a few scattered stout spines; joints 1-4 of
									tarsi with pulvilli; arolia distinct.


								

								
									28. LEUROLESTES PALLIDUS
										(Brunner), 1865, 286.

									Male--Head dark brown, with two or three narrow pale stripes between the
										eyes; pronotum with disc dark reddish-brown, the sides and apex yellow, the
										paler color invading the darker in front and on sides; tegmina pale translucent
										brown, the marginal field yellowish; abdomen dark brown, its sides paler. Ocelli
										large, distinct. Pronotum subelliptical, feebly convex, its sides strongly
										declivent, front margin feebly rounded. Tegmina slightly exceeding apex of
										abdomen. Supra-anal plate transverse, delicate, feebly bilobed. Cerci
										10-jointed, very short, stout, tapering, sub-depressed. Subgenital plate
										asymmetrical, its left margin broadly rounded from base to middle of right
										margin, the latter concave near base; styles slender, cylindrical, the right
										one-half as long as the cerci. Female--Larger, head wider. Tegmina and wings
										barely reaching apex of abdomen. Length of body, ♂, 15.2--17.3, ♀, 18.5--20; of
										pronotum, ♂, 3.3-3.9, ♀, 4.1--4.3; of tegmina, ♂, 12.4--13.6, ♀, 14.8--15.2 mm.
										Width of pronotum, ♂, 4.9--5.7, ♀, 6.1--6.4; of tegmina, ♂, 4.2--4.5, ♀, 4.7--5
										mm. (Fig. 45 B.)
								

								
									Fig. 45. A, Pycnoscelus surinamensis (Linn.) female X 1.6.;
										B, Leurolestes pallidus (Brunn.) male X 2. (After Hebard.)
								

								Key Largo and Key West, Fla., March, July. At Key West a large number were taken
									July 3-7, 1912, by Rehn & Hebard from a pile of old burlap bags and in cracks
									under the stands of a fruit store, where it was in company with four other
									cosmopolitan roaches. L. pallidus is a house-dwelling species of
									wide distribution in tropical America and in the past has been much confused with
										Nyctobora lævigata (Beauv.), which is a much larger and darker
									species. In general facies it resembles closely Pycnoscelus
										surinamensis (L.).
							
						

						
							Subfamily IV. BLATTINÆ.

							Large or medium, mostly cosmopolitan species, having, in addition to the characters
								mentioned in the key to subfamilies, the head with occiput usually exposed; ocelli
								or ocellar spots rarely  absent; tegmina leathery or
								strongly chitinous; subgenital plate of male rounded at apex, that of female
								boat-shaped, its apical portion valvular.
							This subfamily, as here characterized, corresponds to the Periplanetinæ of
									Scudder (1897, 12; 1900, 8). Three genera are represented in our
								territory.

							
								KEY TO EASTERN GENERA OF BLATTINÆ.

								a. Tegmina in both sexes not reaching apex of abdomen.
								b. Arolia minute or absent, less than half the length of claws; tegmina
									covering about two-thirds of abdomen, strongly overlapping, ♂, represented by
									small oval, widely separated pads, ♀. I. BLATTA.
								bb. Arolia large, fully one-half as long as claws; tegmina represented in
									both sexes by very short, subquadrate pads, either feebly overlapping, or slightly
									separated at suture. (Fig. 43, C.) II. EURYCOTIS.
								aa. Tegmina in both sexes extending much beyond the apex of abdomen. III. PERIPLANETA.
							

							
								I. BLATTA
									Linnæus, 1758, 424. (L., "An insect that shuns the
									light.")

								Medium sized robust species having the antennæ elongate, setaceous; interocular
									space, male, slightly wider than that between the bases of antennæ; wings of
									female absent or greatly reduced; lower front margin of fore femora armed with
									numerous rather stout, feebly curved spines which decrease gradually in length
									toward apex, and with three larger unequal ones near apex; other femora armed
									beneath with fewer, stouter, more widely separated spines; joints 1 to 4 of tarsi
									each bearing a small pulvillus, first joint of hind tarsi longer than the others
									united.

								
									29. BLATTA ORIENTALIS
										Linnæus, 1758, 424. Oriental Cockroach.

									Male--Nearly uniform shining dark chestnut-brown; pronotum and tegmina often
										slightly paler; legs and under surface dark chestnut-brown. Pronotum suboval,
										widest behind the middle, its angles and sides broadly rounded, disc with a
										broad impression each side on basal third. Supra-anal plate twice as wide as
										long, carinate above at middle, its apex truncate. Cerci short, flat or feebly
										concave above, widest at middle, their tips acute Subgenital plate transverse,
										convex except near apex, the latter rounded. Styles slender, cylindrical,
										straight, equal in length to the distance between their sockets and the base of
										subgenital plate. Female--Larger and stouter than ♂, head wider, the interocular
										space greater. Nearly uniform shining blackish-brown, the legs slightly paler.
										Pronotum much larger, widest near base, the latter truncate. Supra-anal plate
										subtriangular, strongly keeled, its apex feebly concave. Subgenital plate as  described in key to subfamilies. Length of body, ♂,
										20--24, ♀,, 18--23; of pronotum, ♂, 5.7--6.3, ♀, 6.1--7.1; of tegmina, ♂,
										11.9--16.7, ♀, 4.8-6.8 mm. Width of pronotum, ♂, 7.1--7.9, ♀, 8.2--9.6; of
										tegmina, ♂, 5--6.7, ♀, 2.8--4.2 mm. (Fig. 46.)
								

								In Indiana the Oriental roach is found in all the larger towns and cities, and is
									one of the most noisome and disagreeable insects with which certain classes of
									their inhabitants have to contend. It seldom occurs in houses in thinly settled
									localities, and never, as far as my observation goes, beneath the bark of logs and
									stumps. In Florida it probably occurs in the larger towns throughout the State,
									but is recorded only from Miami and West Palm Beach (Caudell, 1905, 216). It is a cosmopolitan species which has
									spread throughout the tropical and temperate zones and is known in this country
									from Halifax, N. S., Toronto, Ontario, and New Haven, Conn., west to Minnesota and
									Southern California and south to Florida and Texas. Hebard (1917a,
										176) states that in Philadelphia it appears in swarms during the month of
									May co-incident with the arrival of the shad in the Delaware River, and is
									therefore locally known as the Shad Roach.
								
									Fig. 46. Blatta orientalis L; a, female; b,
										male; c, side view female; d, half grown
										specimen. All natural sizes. (After Howard & Marlatt.)
								
								As its name. indicates, the Oriental roach is a native of Asia, but has been
									carried from one country to another by shipping. It delights in filth and
									darkness, and hence in the holds of vessels, the cellars and basements of tenement
									houses and in all damp, dirty places it swarms by thousands, undoubtedly doing
									much good as a scavenger, but infinitely more harm on account of its omnivorous
									and insatiable appetite. Like most other members of the family, it feeds mainly at
									night, appearing to detest and avoid light, as one can readily prove by taking a
									lighted lamp suddenly into its haunts, when a hurried scrambling will take place
									toward its daylight retreats, and but a few  moments
									will elapse before the last of the busy marauders will have disappeared. Of this
									and other species Marlatt (1902) has written: 
										"The damage they do is not only in the products actually consumed, but in the
											soiling and rendering nauseous of everything with which they come in contact.
											They leave, wherever they occur in any numbers, a fetid, nauseous odor, well
											known as the 'roachy' odor, which is persistent, and can not be removed from
											shelves and dishes without washing with soap and boiling water. Food supplies
											so tainted are beyond redemption. This odor comes partly from their excrement,
											but chiefly from a dark colored fluid exuded from the mouth of the insect,
											with which it stains its runways, and also in part, doubtless, from the scent
											glands, which occur on the bodies of both sexes between certain segments of
											the abdomen, and which secrete an oily liquid possessing a very characteristic
											and disagreeable odor. It frequently happens that shelves on which dishes are
											placed become impregnated with this roachy odor, and this is imparted to and
											retained by dishes to such an extent that everything served in them,
											particularly liquids, as coffee or tea, will be noticed to have a peculiar,
											disgusting, foreign taste and odor, the source of which may be a puzzle and
											will naturally be supposed to come from the food rather than from the
											dish."
									

								The Oriental roach is probably the most carnivorous of all our Blattidæ, though,
									like most others, it is fond of starchy food. It is known to feed upon meat,
									cheese, woolen clothes, and even old leather, and is said to be especially fond of
									the festive "bed-bug," Acanthia lectularia L., which soon
									disappears from a house infested with the Oriental roach. This roach is, however,
									far too great a nuisance in itself to be introduced as a means of eradicating even
									the bed-bug.
								The eggs of the Oriental roach are sixteen in number, and the large, horny
									capsule or oötheca in which they are packed is carried about by the mother for a
									week or longer when she drops it in a warm and sheltered place. Along one side of
									the capsule, which resembles in form and color a diminutive seed of the papaw, Asimina triloba Duval, is a seam where the two edges are cemented
									closely together. When the young are hatched they excrete a liquid which dissolves
									the cement and enables them to escape without assistance, leaving their infantile
									receptacle as entire as it was before they quitted it.
								This species is notably gregarious in habit, the individuals living together in
									colonies in the most friendly way, the small ones being allowed by the larger ones
									to sit on them, run over them and nestle beneath them without a show of
									resentment. The young pass through a variable number, sometimes as many as seven,
										 moults, the skin splitting along the back and the
									insect emerging white and soft, but soon hardening and assuming its normal
									color.
							

							
								II. EURYCOTIS
									Stål, 1874, 13 (Gr., "broad" + "form.")

								Large robust species having the interocular area wider than that between the
									antennal sockets; tegmina not extending beyond the metanotum, their hind margins
									truncate; wings absent; front femora armed beneath much as in Blatta, the spines fewer, stouter and less curved; tarsi stout, the basal
									joint especially so, the first four joints with pulvilli; arolia very large,
									spinulose.

								
									30. EURYCOTIS FLORIDANA
										(F. Walker), 1868, 135. Large Florida Roach.

									Male--Nearly uniform dark mahogany-brown, legs usually, and pronotum
										sometimes, reddish-brown; nymphs usually with the sides of promeso- and metanota
										broadly margined with yellow (sabalianus of Scudder). Pronotum
										suborbicular, feebly convex, finely and unevenly punctate, hind angles obtuse,
										front ones broadly rounded into apex, hind margin truncate. Tegmina subquadrate,
										finely and rather densely punctate, their outer apical angles rounded and
										slightly prolonged. Outer apical angles of fourth to seventh dorsal abdominal
										segments acute, gradually produced, those of the sixth and seventh forming sharp
										spines. Supra-anal plate twice as wide as long, its hind margin broadly
										emarginate and hairy. Cerci short, flattened, pointed. Subgenital plate
										transverse, strongly emarginate at the insertion of the styles, which are
										elongate, rather stout and tapering to an acute apex. (Fig. 34, F.) Female--Very
										similar to ♂ ; cerci shorter. Supra-anal plate longer, more narrow, its apex
										more deeply emarginate. Subgenital plate as shown in Fig. 34, E. Oötheca 7x14
										mm, dark brown, the sutural edges raised and bearing about 16 rather sharp
										serrations.
									Length of body, ♂, 31--35, ♀, 30--39.5; of pronotum, ♂, 9.6--10.4, ♀,
										9.3--11.8; of tegmina, ♂, 6.7--7.3, ♀, 7.3--8.2 mm. Width of pronotum. ♂,
										13.2--15.2, ♀, 13.9--16.4; of tegmina, ♂, 7.7--8.7, ♀, 8.2--9.3 mm. (Fig. 43,
										C.)
								

								This, one of the two native species of the subfamily, abounds throughout Florida,
									including the southern keys, and is one of the most ill-smelling insects on the
									Continent of America, far outstinking any member of the order Hemiptera. Outside
									of Florida it has been recorded only from St. Simon's and Billy's Islands, and St.
									Mary's, Ga., and Biloxi, Miss., though it doubtless occurs in many localities in
									southern Georgia and Alabama. In central-western Florida it is abundant in all
									stages during the winter and spring months, especially between the basal leaves of
									the large air plant, Tillandsisa utriculata L., beneath the
									loose bark of logs and stumps, in and beneath decaying palmetto trunks and leaves,
									under piles of weeds and rubbish, in fact, anywhere it can find shelter  from the orb of day; for, like others of its kind, it
									is a night-prowling insect, going forth only after darkness has come in search of
									provender or a mate. Davis states that "at night, with the aid of a lantern, it
									was often found walking about on low bushes, for it is a fair climber in spite of
									its clumsy appearance." When disturbed the adults emit a greasy liquid which
									saturates the atmosphere for a rod or two in every direction with its repellent
									odor.
								The Platyzosteria ingens and the P.
										sabalianus of Scudder (1877a, 92, 93) are synonyms, the latter
									being based on the nymph stage, with yellow borders of the notal segments, as was
									also Periplaneta semipicta
									F. Walker (1868, 141). The writer (1902, 44, 217) first showed that
										sabalianus represented only the immature wingless stage of ingens, the latter name being reduced to synonymy by Rehn
										(1903a, 277). Traces of the yellow pronotal markings of the young are
									often found in the adults.
							

							
								III. PERIPLANETA
									Burmeister, 1838, 502. (Gr., "around" + "a wanderer.")

								Large, stout species, having the antennæ very long and slender; eyes less
									separated than are the antennal sockets; pronotum convex, with sides deflexed;
									tegmina leathery, extending beyond apex of abdomen in both sexes, their front and
									hind margins rounded; wings with costal veins frequently forking, ulnar vein with
									a few basal incomplete branches; subgenital plate of male symmetrical, its styles
									elongate, slender, set in sockets on the sides near apex; lower front margin of
									fore femora armed with a row of rather stout spines, longest near middle of base
									and with three long, unequal spines near apex; lower margins of other femora with
									stout, elongate spines; first joint of hind tarsi longer than the others united;
									arolia small.
								Three introduced species of wide distribution and one native one occur in the
									eastern United States.

								
									KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF PERIPLANETA.

									a. Color not shining solid blackish-brown.
									b. Supra-anal plate prolonged beyond the subgenital plate, its apex
										rounded, deeply notched (Fig. 49, A, C, ); thorax yellow with two large blotches
										of chestnut-brown; median dorsal abdominal segment of male not modified. 31. AMERICANA.
									bb. Supra-anal plate not prolonged beyond the subgenital, its apex
										truncate, feebly notched (Fig. 49, B,); median dorsal segment of ♂
										modified.


									

									c. Tegmina without basal sub-marginal yellow stripe; thorax yellow, more
										or less tinged with brown (Fig. 32, F.) 32. BRUNNEA.
									cc. Tegmina with a yellow sub-marginal stripe along basal third;
										pronotum yellow, with base and one or two large discal spots black (Fig. 48.)
											33. AUSTRALASÆ.
									aa. Color a uniform shining blackish-brown.34. FULIGINOSA.
								
								
									Fig. 47. Periplaneta americana (Linn.); a,
										view from above; b, from beneath; both enlarged one-third.
										(After Howard & Marlatt.)
								

								
									31. PERIPLANETA AMERICANA
										(Linnæus), 1758, 424. American Roach.

									Male--Head chestnut-brown; tegmina shining reddish-brown; pronotum broadly
										margined on sides and base, and narrowly in front with yellow, this enclosing a
										large, bilobed brown spot which is usually sharply defined, though sometimes
										much suffused; legs and under surface pale brownish-yellow, middle of abdomen
										darker. Pronotum sub-elliptical, widest at middle, narrowed in front, its angles
										all broadly rounded; discal oblique impressions broad, feeble. Supra-anal plate
										of male with apical half membranous, otherwise as described in key. Cerci
										15-jointed, very long (6--7 mm.) and strongly tapering. Female--Stouter, head
										and pronotum broader, the latter with discal impressions less obvious; tegmina
										and wings shorter. Supra-anal plate weakly keeled above, not membranous.
										Subgenital plate as in other Blattinæ. Oötheca 5.2x7.8 mm., its sutural ridge
										narrow, with a row of circular discs. Length of body, ♂, 29.7--34.2, ♀,
										27.8--34; of pronotum, ♂ and ♀, 7.6--9.6; of tegmina, ♂, 29.6--35.6, ♀,
										23.9--28.4 mm. Width of pronotum, ♂, 9.1--11.3, ♀, 9.7--11.8; of tegmina, ♂,
										9.4--11.1, ♀, 8.3--10.6 mm (Fig. 47.)
								


								

								Putnam and Marion counties, Ind.; April 29--Dec. 15. Gainesville, Dunedin and
									Sanford, Fla., March 6--May 30 (W. S. B.). This is by far the
									largest cockroach found in Indiana and doubtless occurs in all the larger towns of
									the State. It was formerly found in numbers in some of the leading hotels and in
									the State House at Indianapolis, but usually confines itself to the basement and
									first floor, and appears to be much more cleanly in its choice of an abiding place
									than does the closely allied Oriental roach. It is, as its specific name
									indicates, a native of tropical and subtropical America; but, like B.
										orientalis, it has spread to the four corners of the earth. In Florida it
									has been taken by R. & H. and others at numerous localities throughout the
									State, being abundant in a houseboat at Pine Channel, and in a fruit store at Key
									West. Elsewhere it occurs in this country from New York west to Minnesota and
									south to California and New Mexico, but in the more northern states is probably to
									be considered as adventive rather than firmly established. South of the United
									States, it is found generally over the Continent and adjacent islands (Hebard, 1917a, 181).
								Catesby, as far back as 1748, wrote of this species in Carolina20 as follows: "The cockroaches here are
									very troublesome and destructive vermin, and are so numerous and voracious that it
									is impossible to keep victuals of any kind from being devoured by them without
									close covering. They are flat, and so thin that few chests or boxes can exclude
									them. They eat not only leather, parchment and woolen, but linen and paper. They
									disappear in winter and appear most numerous in the hottest days in summer. It is
									at night they commit their depredations, and bite people in their beds, especially
									children's fingers that are greasy. They lay innumerable eggs, creeping into the
									holes of old walls and rubbish, where they lie torpid all the winter. Some have
									wings and others are without--perhaps of different sexes."
								Catesby's wingless examples were in all probability the young, as, like most
									other insects, the wings are not acquired until the final moult. Marlatt
										(1902, 8) says that the "domesticity of the American roach resulted from
									ages of association with the aborigines. It has now become thoroughly
									cosmopolitan, and is unquestionably the most injurious and annoying of the species
									occurring on vessels. It is sometimes numerous also in greenhouses, causing
									considerable injury to tender plants. It is a notorious house pest, and
									occasionally vies with the German roach in its injuries 20Natural History, Carolina, 1748, Vol.
										II, p. 10.
									 to book bindings. The backs, sometimes entirely, of
									both cloth and leather bound books, are eaten off to get at the starchy paste used
									in the binding."
								The young of the American roach require about a year to reach maturity. The rate
									of growth of it and other species depends, however, largely on the food and
									temperature conditions, and under unfavorable circumstances the nymph stage is
									much prolonged. The abundance of roaches is, therefore, apparently not accounted
									for so much by their rapidity of multiplication as by their unusual ability to
									preserve themselves from ordinary means of destruction and by the scarcity of
									natural enemies.

								
									32. FERIPLANETA BRUNNEA
										Burmeister, 1838, 503. Large Brown Roach.

									Male--Smaller and slightly broader than americana. Color
										much as there, the pronotum with discal brown blotches much less distinct,
										sometimes almost wanting, the disc then yellow with hind margin blackish-brown
										and side margins more narrowly so (Fig. 32, F.) Interocular area broader, about
										two-thirds that between the bases of antennæ. Thorax wider, more strongly
										elliptical, less narrowed in front, the discal impressions less evident. Tegmina
										and cerci shorter, the latter (4.3--5 mm.) acute but much less tapering. Median
										dorsal abdominal segment with a broad, shallow depression at middle of base,
										this bearing a heavy tuft ot silky hairs. Supra-anal plate wholly corneous,
										entire or very feebly notched, its apex broadly rounded. Subgenital plate as in
											americana, the stlyes as long as the plate. Female--Differs
										from that of americana as does the ♂, and in having the
										supra-anal plate much less prolonged and but feebly notched at apex (Fig. 32,
										H.) Length of body, ♂, 25.1--28.5, ♀, 26.5--33; of pronotum, ♂, 6.7--7.9, ♀,
										7.9--8.9; of tegmina, ♂, 24.3-29.9, ♀, 23.8--26.5 mm. Width of pronotum, ♂,
										9--10.8, ♀, 10.6--11.7; tegmina, ♂, 8.5--9.9, ♀, 9.3--10 mm.
								

								Ormond, Utopia, Cape Sable and Key West, Fla., February 23--April 11 (W. S. B.). Taken in houses, beneath bark of stump and at light.
									Recorded also from nine other localities south of Gainesville and Hastings, Fla.
									Outside of Florida it is known in this country only from Asheville, N. Car.
									(adventive), Billy's Island and Thomasville, Ga., and Willacy Co., Texas. It is a
									house-dwelling, circumtropical species, very common in Tropical America. Periplaneta truncata Krauss is a synonym.

								
									33. PERIPLANETA AUSTRALASÆ
										(Fabricius), 1775, 271. Australian Roach.

									Male--Smaller than americana, more slender than brunnea. Vertex black; face
										yellow, mottled with brown; pronotum yellow, with a large sharply defined
										bilobed black spot, hind margin rather broadly, the other margins narrowly edged
										with black; tegmina reddish-brown, the basal third with a narrow yellow
										submarginal stripe; legs and under surface  pale
										reddish-brown, the middle of abdomen, and cerci darker. Pronotum subelliptical,
										three-tenths wider than long, widest behind the middle, all the sides and angles
										rounded, discal impressions absent. Median dorsal segment modified as in brunnea. Supra-anal plate with apex feebly concave. Cerci as in
											brunnea. Apex of subgenital plate broadly emarginate at
										middle. Female--More robust, colored as in ♂, pronotum broader and more convex.
										Tegmina broader and less elongate. Supra-anal plate feebly notched at apex.
										Length of body, ♂, 23.6--25.5, ♀, 24.3--29; of pronotum, ♂, 6.2--7.2,
										♀,7.8--8.8; of tegmina, ♂, 24.8--26.3, ♀, 22.9--25.7 mm. Width of pronotum, ♂,
										8.3--9.3, ♀, 10--11.4; of tegmina, ♂, 7.9-8.4, ♀,8.7--9.7 mm (Fig. 48.)
								
								
									Fig. 48. Female, life-size. (After Howard & Marlatt.)
								

								Sanford and Dunedin, Fla.; Nov. to March. Frequent at Dunedin beneath logs, old
									burlap bags and other cover in old orange orchards, often in company with Pycnoscelus surinamensis and Eurycotis
									floridana. Occurs throughout central and southern Florida from Cedar Keys and
									Fernandina south to Miami and Key West. Common beneath signs on trees near borders
									of towns and in and about old houses and hotels. Scudder (1877a, 94)
									first recorded it from the United States, his specimens having been sent ot him
									from Green Cove Springs, Fla., under the name of the "Florida Cockroach," the
									party sending stating that it "frequently occurs in the pitchers of Sarracenia, has been abundant in Florida for 18 years, and is the torment
									of housekeepers." Davis (R. & H., 1914, 100)
									states that "at Punta Gorda there was a vacant house at the end of the town
									frequented at night by a Nanny and Billy goat, and on warm evenings many Periplaneta australasiæ would run about on the piazza floor and on
									the sides of the house. They were seen feeding on the excrement of the goats and
									were no doubt to a great degree dependent upon them." It also is a circumtropical
									species and is not e established in this country north of Florida, though
									adventive specimens have been taken in many of the eastern and northern States and
									even as far north as Montreal and Toronto, Canada. Where introduced by accident
									into greenhouses, it increases in numbers very rapidly and sometimes becomes a
									serious pest.21

								21Entom. News, XVI,
									1905, 183.



								

								
									34. PERIPLANETA FULIGINOSA
										(Serville), 1839, 70. Smoky Brown Roach.

									Male--Size of australasiæ, form stouter. Usually uniform
										shining brownish-black, the tegmina, mouth parts and legs tinged with
										reddish-brown; rarely dark reddish-brown, the head, pronotum and legs
										chestnut-brown (Fig. 32, G.) Pronotum and cerci as in australasiæ. Median segment of male abdomen modified as in brunnea. Supra-anal plate with apical margin feebly notched and with two
										minute rounded projections beneath the apex of notch. Subgenital plate with apex
										broader than in australasiæ and distinctly notched as there.
										Female--Similar to ♂, the supra-anal plate as in ♀ of australasiæ. Length of body, ♂, 24.5--29, ♀, 25.5--32.5; of pronotum, ♂,
										6.9--7.8, ♂, 7.2--8.5; of tegmina, ♂, 25-6-28.6, ♂, 22.7--26.4 mm. Width of
										pronotum, ♂, 8.8--10, ♀, 9.7--11.2; of tegmina, ♂, 8.2--9.4, ♀, 8.6--9.7
										mm.
								

								Taken by R. & H. at Fernandina, Jacksonville, Tallahassee and De Funiak
									Springs, Fla., Aug.--Sept.; at Jacksonville abundant on the wharves at night. A
									native species, occurring in the southern States from central coastal Texas,
									eastward to Brunswick, Ga., and will probably be found only in the northern third
									of Florida. Usually occurs out of doors, beneath signs and other cover in the
									vicinity of towns. Recorded many times as P. brunnea Burm. A
									number of specimens in the Urbana, Illinois collection were taken in a greenhouse
									in Chicago.
							
						

						
							Subfamily V. PANCHLORINÆ.

							Hind margin of pronotum with an obtuse angle at middle; tegmina and wings fully
								developed; ulnar vein of wings with numerous incomplete branches; femora unarmed
								beneath, except sometimes with a single apical spine; lower front margin of fore
								femora usually heavily fringed with hairs; tarsal joints very elongate, slender;
								pulvilli and arolia present.
							Two genera, each represented by a single species, occur in our territory.

							
								KEY TO EASTERN GENERA OF PANCHLORINÆ.

								a. Basal segment of hind tarsi naked beneath; general color brown; basal
									half of tegmina with numerous rows of punctures. I. PYCNOSCELUS.
								aa. Basal segment of hind tarsi hairy beneath; general color pale green;
									tegmina without rows of punctures. II. PANCHLORA.
							

							
								I. PYCNOSCELUS
									Scudder, 1862, 421. (Gr., "thick" + "tarsi.")

								Medium sized species with pronotum convex, its sides declivent; apex broadly
									rounded; hind margin broadly obtuse-angulate; tegmina of male extending much
									beyond apex of abdomen,  of female usually slightly
									surpassing the apex, often a little shorter; subgenital plate of male without
									styles; femora all with a single stout apical spine beneath; lower front margin of
									fore femora fringed with hairs, the basal ones the longer, those on apical half
									spiniform; arolia small. The male of our only species has been found but once in
									this country, although more than 400 females have been taken and recorded.

								
									35. PYCNOSCELUS SURINAMENSIS
										(Linnæus), 1767, 687. Surinam Roach.

									Female--Head and most of pronotum shining blackish-brown; tegmina dull
										brownish-yellow; clypeus and front margin of pronotum yellow, this often
										extending very narrowly along the sides; legs and under surface brownish-yellow,
										the sides and apex of abdomen darker. Head flattened, sparsely punctate, the
										interocular area equal in width to that between the large ocellar spots.
										Pronotum evenly convex, widest behind the middle, hind angles rounded, front
										ones wanting, disc finely and sparsely punctate. Basal half of tegmina with rows
										of punctures each side of the veins. Supra-anal plate twice as wide as long,
										apical half finely carinate at middle, apex broadly rounded. Cerci very short,
										acute, their separate segments indistinct. Subgenital plate large, convex at
										base, concave along the sides near apex which is rounded. Male--More slender,
										the tegmina much longer, supra-anal plate more delicate in structure, more
										prolonged, broadly rounded, not carinate. Cerci much longer than in ♀, 12- or
										13-jointed, the apical joints much the longer; styles absent. Subgenital plate
										more than twice as broad as long, its apex slightly incurved, subtruncate,
										feebly and broadly emarginate. Length of body, ♂, 16.8, ♀, 16.3--23; of
										pronotum, ♂, 4.8, ♀, 4.8--5.8; of tegmina, ♂, 18.9, ♀, 13.6--19 mm. Width of
										pronotum, ♂, 5, ♀, 5.9--7.6; of tegmina, ♂, 6, ♀, 5--6.7 mm. (Fig. 45,
										A.)
								

								Ormond, Sanford, Dunedin and Sarasota, Fla., Nov. to March; beneath chunks, piles
									of weeds and other cover (W. S. B.). Recorded from 14 additional
									localities in all parts of Florida. It is a circumtropical species, established in
									the southern States from Brownsville, Texas, east to and throughout Florida, and
									often found as adventive in greenhouses as far north as New England.
								Hebard (1917a, 196) states that in addition to the large series from
									the southern States, he examined "nearly 200 specimens, chiefly from the West
									Indies and Mexico, without finding a single male, adult or immature, from the
									American Continent. This may possibly indicate that with us the species is
									parthenogenetic."
								Davis (1919a) says that 66 specimens from southern Florida taken by
									him were all females, but that among seven individuals found January 12, among the
									straw in the winter quarters of the giant land turtles in the Reptile House of the
									New York Zoological  Society, there was a single
									male, easily told by its smaller body and longer cerci. He suggests that as it "is
									well known that among some of our native roaches the females long outlive the
									males, it is quite possible that the males of the Surinam roach occur in very
									early spring in southern Florida."
								P. obscurus
									Scudder (1862, 422), the genotype, was based on a single specimen
									taken "in the woods under stones" near Greenfield, Mass. He stated that it was a
									male, and described the styles as "slender, cylindrical, bluntly pointed, of about
									the length of the cerci and inserted just within them." Hebard (1917a,
										193) states that the specimen is a juvenile female of P.
										surinamensis, and unquestionably adventive. How a female could possess the
									styles described by Scudder passeth understanding.
							

							
								II. PANCHLORA
									Burmeister, 1838, 506. (Gr., "all" + "green.")

								Pronotum convex, its sides declivent and hind margin obtuse-angulate; tegmina and
									wings extending much beyond apex of abdomen in both sexes, the ulnar vein of the
									latter with 9 to 13 short, strongly oblique incomplete basal branches; lower front
									margin of fore femora (in cubensis) with a few hairs on basal
									half, these succeeded toward apex by a more closely set row of shorter hairs;
									other femora unarmed or with a single short apical spine; first tarsal joint hairy
									beneath at base and with a large, rounded pulvillus on apical half; arolia rather
									large.

								
									(----). PANCHLORA CUBENIS
										Saussure, 1862a, 230. Green Cuban Roach.

									Male--Size medium, rather slender, structure delicate. Uniform pale green
										above; occiput, pronotum and tegmina with a yellowish-white submarginal line;
										legs and under surface greenish-white; tegmina often with a small dark brown dot
										at apical third. Eyes separated by only one-eighth their greatest diameter.
										Pronotum widest behind the middle, where its margin is subangulate, disc finely,
										transversely rugose. Supra-anal plate twice as wide as long, its apical margin
										broadly concave, feebly notched at middle. Cerci short, broad, their segments
										indistinct. Subgenital plate much wider than long, its apex truncate; styles
										small, cylindrical, one-third the length of cerci. Female--Slightly larger, the
										eyes more widely separated. Supra-anal plate prolonged, its apex with a deep
										median notch or cleft. Subgenital plate feebly notched at middle of apex. Length
										of body, ♂, 12.2--14, ♀, 15.7--18; of pronotum, ♂, 3.8--4.3, ♀, 4.9--5.6; of
										tegmina, ♂, 15.4--16, ♀, 18.3--20 mm. Width of pronotum, ♂, 5--5.3, ♀, 5.9--6.7;
										of tegmina, ♂, 4.8--5, ♀, 5.7--6.2 mm.
								

								Marion Co., Ind., April 23, Sept. 27; Dunedin, Fla., Feb. 1 (W. S.
										B.); adventive specimens introduced with bananas. A  handsome tropical American species of wide distribution, established
									in this country only near Brownsville, Texas, but often introduced with tropical
									fruits; records of adventive specimens being given by Hebard (1917a,
										269) from numerous places in New England and the northern United States.
									Recorded by Scudder, Felt and others as P. poeyi, viridis, nivea,
										hyalina, exolita and virescens. Of these names P. poeyi Sauss. is a synonym of cubensis, the
									others, names or synonymys of extra-limital species. Hebard states that he does
									not believe that cubensis "can establish itself in temperate
									climates except under artificial conditions. In the tropics it is essentially an
									out-door dweller and cannot readily adapt itself to artificial surroundings as can
									the domiciliary forms." Riley (1891a) has shown that P.
										cubensis (viridis) is viviparous.
							
						

						
							Subfamily V1. BLABERINÆ.

							Very large species having the tegmina and wings fully developed, the former with
								numerous oblique discoidal sectors; femora unarmed or supplied with few spines;
								tarsal joints stout, with very large pulvilli; arolia absent.

							
								I. BLABERUS
									Serville, 1831, 37. (Gr. "harmful".)

								Head with vertex hidden by pronotum, the latter large, convex; supra-anal plate
									bilobate in both sexes; lower front margin of fore femora armed on basal half with
									a few short spines, these succeeded by a row of close-set stout hairs and a single
									stout, short apical spine, a similar spine also present on the other femora.

								
									36. BLABERUS CRANIIFER
										Burmeister, 1838, 516. Giant Death's-head Roach.

									Male--Head blackish-brown, ocelli and clypeus yellow. Pronotum dull yellow,
										with a large shield-shaped shining blackish-brown spot, containing four pale
										markings suggesting the human eyes, nose and mouth; tegmina dark blackish-brown
										more or less dull yellow at base and middle and along the costal margin.
										Pronotum subelliptical, the front and hind margins rounded. Tegmina very broad,
										their tips broadly rounded. Supra-anal plate prolonged, subquadrate, its apex
										slightly bilobed. Cerci slender, 17-jointed, tapering, acute. Subgenital plate
										asymmetrical, with margin rounded from base of left side to middle of right one,
										then concave and much softer to base of right side; styles minute, cylindrical,
										the right one the longer. Female similar, the subgenital plate larger and more
										convex, its apical margin broadly rounded and slightly produced. Length of body,
										♂, 42.2--45.1, ♀, 48.7--54.8; of pronotum, ♂, 12.3--13.6, ♀, 14.3--14.6; of
										tegmina, ♂ and ♀, 48--51.8 mm. Width of pronotum, ♂, 17.3--18.9, ♀, 20.9--22.1;
										of tegmina, ♂, 18.8--19.4, ♀, 19.8--20.6 mm.
								


								

								This, the largest cockroach found in the United States, is established at Key
									West, Fla., where it was taken by R. & H. in numbers July 7, 1912, from
									beneath boards in a wood shed, and first recorded by them (1914c, 381) as Blaberus atropos (Stoll). "It was well known to the natives about
									Key West, where it is found in wood piles, under boards and other refuse about the
									town. The insects, when exposed, either remained motionless or scuttled toward
									another place of concealment with no great speed. The nymphs were usually found
									half buried in loose, damp earth under boards, where they remained motionless,
									looking much like lumps of earth until disturbed." It is a Tropical American
									species, common in Cuba, Mexico and British Honduras.
							
						

						
							Subfamily VII. CORYDIINÆ.

							Head globose; ocelli absent or minute, the ocellar areas not strongly defined;
								pronotum and tegmina when present in part rather thickly covered with hairs; middle
								and hind femora unarmed, or with only one or two apical spines. Two genera are
								represented in Florida.

							
								KEY TO EASTERN GENERA OF CORYDIINÆ.

								a. Ocelli present, very small, convex; pulyilli and arolia present;
									tegmina present in both sexes. I. HOLOCOMPSA.
								aa. Ocelli absent; pulvilla and arolia wanting; tegmina absent in female.
										II. COMPSODES.
							

							
								I. HOLOCOMPSA
									Burmeister, 1838, 491. (Gr., "elegant.")

								Very small species having the eyes widely separated, ocelli very minute; tegmina
									divided obliquely into two portions, the basal one opaque and hairy, the other
									membranous and glabrous; wings as long as tegmina, their veins mostly subobsolete,
									the discoidal vein with an elongate costal swelling; supra-anal plate in both
									sexes feebly bilobate; subgenital plate of female valvular with basal margins of
									valves forming an acute keel; lower front margins of fore femora armed on apical
									half with a row of minute spines and with two stout apical spines, the last one
									much the longer; tarsi small, first and second joints with minute subapical
									pulvilli, third and fourth joints with larger ones; arolia present.

								
									37. HOLOCOMPSA NITIDULA
										(Fabricius), 1871, I, 345. Small Hairy Roach.

									Male--Head, under surface and legs blackish; antennæ blackish with three or
										four joints on apical half pale; pronotum and opaque basal portion of tegmina
										black with a greenish tinge; wings and apical portion of  tegmina hyaline. Pronotum convex, the narrow sides strongly
										declivent, front and hind margins transverse, front angles broadly rounded, hind
										ones obtuse. Cerci 8-jointed, tapering to an acute apex. Subgenital plate with
										the left margin rounded, right one feebly concave; styles minute, elongate, the
										left one slightly the larger. Female--Larger, broader, the tegmina and wings
										less projecting beyond apex of abdomen; colored as in male, the bluish-green
										tinge more evident; pronotum reddish-brown, often darker near base; head
										slightly darker, legs and under surface brownish-yellow. Subgenital plate as
										above described. Length of body, ♂, 4.8--5, ♀, 5.3--6.2; of pronotum, ♂,
										1.6--1.8, ♀, 1.9--2.2; of tegmina, ♂ and ♀, 4.4--5 mm. Width of pronotum, ♂,
										2.1--2.2, ♀, 2.6--2.9 mm. (Fig. 49, D.)
								

								This small, easily distinguished roach is established in the United States as far
									as known, only at Key West, Fla., where R. & H. (1914c, 381)
									found 26 specimens in company with four other species, in the folds of some old
									burlap bags under the counter of a fruit store, and with Blaberus
										craniifer between old boards in a wood shed. It is a house-dwelling
									species, widely distributed throughout tropical America. A single adventive
									specimen has been taken at Washington, D. C.
							

							
								II. COMPSODES
									Hebard, 1917a, 208. (Gr., "neat looking.")

								Very small, slender species, having the interocular space subequal to that
									between the antennal sockets, male, much wider, female; pronotum of male
									transverse, elliptical, with a median linear and broad oblique lateral sulci;
									pronotum of female with front margin broadly rounded into hind one, the latter
									straight, the hind angles rather sharply rounded; tegmina of male pilose, the
									marginal and scapular fields very narrow; cerci of male elongate, tapering to an
									aciculate point, of female short, tapering to acute apex. Other characters as
									given in key.

								
									38. COMPSODES CUCULLATUS
										(Saussure & Zehntner), 1894, 111. Small Hooded Roach.

									Pale brownish-yellow; head and apex of abdomen beneath fuscous; pronotum
										chestnut-brown, its front margin paler; tegmina of male surpassing the abdomen,
										brown, the medio-discoidal area in part hyaline; wings dusky-hyaline. Eyes and
										entire head concealed by the hood-shaped front margin of pronotum. Supra-anal
										plate of male broader than long, truncate, its base bi-impressed; subgenital
										plate rounded. Other characters as given above. Length of body, ♂, 3.5; of
										pronotum, 1.8; of tegmina, 6.2 mm. Width of pronotum, 2.4 mm.
								

								Four males of this little roach were taken at light by Schwarz and Barber on
									Paradise Key, twelve miles southwest of Homestead, Fla., Feb. 19--24, 1919. It was
									described from Guatemala. No females are as yet known.
							
						


						

						
							Subfamily VIII. POLYPHAGINÆ.

							Species of medium size in which the sexes are widely dissimilar, the females being
								wingless with much smaller more narrow eyes and ocelli represented by indistinct
								spots (Fig. 49, F) ; males with pronotum and tegmina thickly covered with hairs, the
								tegmina in our species with veins distinct, and marginal field narrow, only
								one-fourth the sub-basal width of the tegmen; lower margin of all the femora
								unarmed; middle and hind femora armed above with a single stout, elongate, genicular
								spine; styles absent.
							One of the three recognized genera of the subfamily is represented in Florida.

							
								Fig. 49. A, B & C, Dorsal views of apical portion of abdomen and cerci X 2.5;
									A, of Periplaneta americana (L.), male; B, of P.
										australasiæ (Fab.), male; C, of P. americana (L.),
									female; D, Holocompsa nitiduia (Fab.), female X 3; E, Plectoptera floridana Heb., female X 3; F, Arenivaga
										apacha (Sauss.), female X 2; G, Chorisoneura texensis (S.
									& Z.), male X 3. (After Hebard.)
							

							
								I. ARENIVAGA
									Rehn, 1903c, 181. (Gr. "sands" + "wandering.")

								This genus differs from its nearest ally, Eremoblatta Rehn, in
									the males having the transverse clypeal swelling of face deeply concave, with
									ocelli more prominent; middle and hind tibiæ with six instead of seven apical
									spurs, and armed beneath with 4 to 6, instead of only two, subapical spines; tarsi
									very slender and elongate; abdomen naked beneath.
								Hebard (1917a) recognized four species, all from the desert regions
									of the southwestern United States west of central Texas. A single male of another
									species had previously been taken by me at Dunedin, Fla. Not recognizing it from
									the descriptions in his Monograph, I sent it to Hebard, stating that it was a
									supposed new species of Arenivaga near apacha.
									He returned it as 
									Arenivaga apacha Sauss., stating: "I cannot be absolutely
									positive of this determination without removing the subgenital plate. Do you
									remember definitely getting this specimen in Florida? I cannot believe it ever
									came from there, but if it did it must have come in on some train from the western
									desert. This insect is not a native of Florida." It was then
									sent to Caudell who replied that it was an Arenivaga allied to
										apacha, and perhaps a new species, adding: "Could you by any
									means have made an error in labelling this specimen? It should be from Texas or
									farther west." Soon afterward he received two females from a Florida
									correspondent, and described the species as new, my Dunedin male thus serving as
									the type of the only species of the subfamily known east of the Mississippi. The
									facts as above given are mentioned only to show that in the study of such mobile
									forms of life as insects it is not safe to conclude that any genus or even species
									is confined to a definite region, and that one may hunt over a well known area for
									years and yet not discover a form which may be brought to light by some future
									collector.

								
									39. ARENIVAGA FLORIDENSIS
										Caudell, 1918b, 156. Florida Sand Roach.

									Male--Broadly oval, much less elongate than in any other member of the
										genus. General color fuliginous or dark smoky brown; pronotum with a large,
										reniform central piceous blotch, front and side margins broadly pale transparent
										yellowish, basal fourth fuscous enclosing two yellowish dots; tegmina smoky
										brown, the humeral angle paler; face, under surface and legs pale brownish
										yellow. "The sinistral concealed plate and the genital hook are about as in A. erratica but the inferior dextral plate is more regular in
										shape than in that species, though agreeing with it in being unarmed; the
										superior dextral plate is shaped as in erratica and allies but
										instead of being armed at the base of the inner excavation with a sharp spine as
										in erratica and apacha it is there furnished
										with an elevated rounded ridge which, from an apical view, looks like a rounded
										subclavate projection, similar to that of genitalis, but from a lateral view
										appears to be the terminus of an elongate elevated ridge." (Caudell.)
									Female--Broadly oval widest about the middle. "Color almost black, the limbs
										and lower surface partially lighter; pronotum with disk bordered somewhat
										broadly on the anterior and lateral margins with reddish-yellow, the meso- and
										metanotum similarly margined laterally; segments of abdomen each marked
										laterally with a black spot, with usually some lighter lateral areas wholly or
										partially surrounding these black lateral spots." Length of body, ♂, 13; of
										pronotum, ♂, 4.2--4.5; ♀, 5; of tegmina, ♂, 13.5--15 mm. Width of pronotum, ♂,
										6--6.5, ♀, 8; of metanotum, ♀, 11; of tegmina, ♂, 10--11 mm.
								

								Known only from Dunedin, Lakeland and Auburndale, Fla. Two males have been taken
									by me at Dunedin, one (Type No. 21,  880, U. S. N.
									M.) was found on the ground beneath some cabbage palmetto leaves, April 10, 1915.
									The other was taken while it was flying slowly and close to the ground across a
									sandy roadway on March 5, 1919. Two females were collected at Auburndale by N. R.
									Wood and sent to Caudell, and Davis found a single male among his series of Pycnoscelus. It was taken at Lakeland May 4, 1912.
							
						

						
							Subfamily IX. OXYHALOINÆ.

							Species of small size, having the head broad; ocelli absent or indicated by spots;
								middle and fore femora armed beneath with a single elongate apical spine; supra-anal
								plate of female distinctly emarginate; fourth joint of tarsi alone (in our genera)
								with a pulvillus; large arolia present.

							
								KEY TO EASTERN GENERA OF OXYHALOINÆ.

								a. Subgenital plate of female cleft at apex; tarsal claws simple; styles
									of male concave, their bases contiguous, arising from the middle of hind margin of
									subgenital plate; length of body, ♂, 7.8--8.3 mm. I. CHORISONEURA.
								aa. Subgenital plate of female simple; tarsal claws with two minute teeth
									on middle of inner margin; styles slender, cylindrical, arising each side of the
									subquadrate emarginate apical portion of subgenital plate; length of body, ♂,
									5.4--5.7 mm. II. PLECTOPTERA.
							

							
								I. CHORISONEURA
									Brunner, 1865, 255. (Gr., "separate" + "veins")

								Head triangular; eyes widely separated; pronotum broad, its sides rounded, feebly
									declivent; tegmina delicate, narrow, strongly tapering to the sharply rounded
									apex; wings fully developed, with 10 to 13 costal veins, the majority of which are
									clavate at apex, their appendicular field slightly wider than long; lower front
									margin of fore femora with a fringe of hairs, those on apical half spiniform.

								
									40. CHORISONEURA TEXENSIS
										Sauss. & Zehnt., 1893, 80. Small Yellow Texas Roach.

									Male--Nearly uniform pale reddish-brown; sides of pronotum, marginal field
										of tegmina and wings transparent, often with a yellowish tinge. Head about as
										broad as long, the interocular space nearly as wide as that between antennal
										sockets. Pronotum subelliptical, hind margin subtruncate, front one feebly
										rounded. Sixth dorsal abdominal segment with a small rounded area at middle of
										base thickly covered with agglutinated hairs. Supra-anal plate twice as wide as
										long, its hind margin feebly rounded. Cerci 9-jointed, fusiform, their upper
										surface depressed and concave. Female--Very similar to male, the supra-anal
										plate transverse and  with a median lengthwise
										sulcus, its apical half triangular, feebly prolonged, the apex notched.
										Subgenital plate large, its apical half subquadrate and deeply cleft. Length of
										body, ♂, 7.8--8.3, ♀, 7.3--8.4; of pronotum, ♂, 1.6--2.1, ♀, 1.7--2:2; of
										tegmina, ♂, 7.2--9.3, ♀, 6.8--8.6 mm. Width of pronotum, ♂, 2.6--3, ♀, 2.4--3.2;
										of tegmina, ♂ and ♀, 2.3--2.9 mm. (Fig. 49, G.)
								

								Ormond, Eustis, Sanford, Sarasota and Dunedin, Fla., Feb 1--Apr. 13; beneath dead
									leaves in oak woods and beaten from foliage of oak and bay berry; one Dunedin
									specimen at light, June 20 (W. S. B.). Recorded also from
									Atlantic Beach, Jacksonville, Orlando, Lakeland and Key Largo, Fla., by R. &
									H., Davis and others, March 18--Aug. 25. It is a native species, ranging from
									Tryon, N. Car., south and west to Brownsville, Texas. C. plocea
									Rehn (1904c, 164) from South Carolina is a synonym.
							

							
								II. PLECTOPTERA
									Saussure, 1864, 173. (Gr., "plaited" + "wing.")

								Very small oval species having the dorsal surface convex, smooth, shining; head
									triangular, the angles broadly rounded; eyes widely separated, ocelli absent;
									tegmina reaching tip of abdomen; wings elongate, very delicate, their appendicular
									field very large; sixth dorsal segment of male modified as in Chorisoneura. Other characters as given in key.

								
									41. PLECTOPTERA FLORIDANA
										Hebard, 1917b, 251. Small Florida Roach.

									Male--Pale brownish-yellow with a tawny tinge; head, with a narrow
										transverse brown line between the eyes; tegmina, wings and sides of pro notum
										transparent with a yellow tinge; legs and abdomen pale reddish brown.
										Interocular space wide, but less than the broad one between an- tennal sockets.
										Pronotum narrowly elliptical, convex, the sides more strongly so, front margin
										truncate, hind one feebly rounded. Supra-anal plate nearly twice as wide as
										long, its apical portion triangular, feebly concave and with blunt apex Cerci
										6-jointed, flattened, the apex acuminate. Subgenital plate small, sides
										converging to the subquadrate emarginate apex, which bears at middle an acute
										triangular process, on either side of which are borne the small, slender,
										subequal styles. Females--Very similar in color; abdomen dark brown with sides
										of segments yellow. Interocular space broader than in male; supra-anal plate
										distinctly notched at apex; subgenital plate large, broadly concave at sides
										near bases of cerci. Length of body, male and female, 4.9--5.7; of pronotum,
										1.3--1.6; of tegmina, 4.4--5.1. Width of pronotum, 2.1--2.4; of tegmina, 1.8--2
										mm. (Fig. 49, E.)
								

								Key West, Fla., March 3, 1919; two adults, three nymphs, taken by beating (W. S. B.). Known in the United States only from Cocoanut Grove,
									Jan. 19; Big Pine Key and Key West, Fla.,  March 15,
									July 6--7. Those at Big Pine Key were beaten by R. & H. from tall bushes on
									the edge of a mangrove swamp, while at Key West they were mainly secured by
									beating the foliage of a holly, Ilex cassine L. Recorded by
										R. & H. (1905, 33; 1912, 241; 1914c, 382) as Plectoptera poeyi (Sauss.), a closely related Cuban species.
							
						

						
							Subfamily X. PANESTHINÆ.

							Large robust species having the surface leathery; ocelli, tegmina and wings absent
								in our species; last dorsal and ventral abdominal segments very large, triangular,
								completely concealing the supra-anal and subgenital plates and genitalia; legs
								stout; lower front margin of fore femora armed only with three short, stout, equal
								spines near apex; other femora either unarmed or with two similar subapical spines;
								first four tarsal joints with heavy pulvilli; arolia absent (Fig. 43, D). One genus
								is represented in this country.

							
								I. CRYPTOCERCUS
									Scudder, 1862, 419. (Gr., "hidden" + "cerci.")

								Eyes very small, convex, subequal in size to the antennal sockets; pronotum
									convex, broader than long, disc with a wide, deep median depression, front margin
									broad and slightly upturned to form a hood above the head. Other characters as
									given above.

								
									42. CRYPTOCERCUS PUNCTULATUS
										Scudder, 1862, 420. Brown Wingless Cockroach.

									Dark chestnut-brown, shining; the apical margins of the dorsal segments
										paler; antennæ and legs reddish-brown. Eyes and vertex concealed by pronotum;
										face finely and sparsely punctate. Pronotum roughened with small, scattered
										granular tubercles and with a few larger ones each side of median depression;
										hind margin truncate, front one broadly rounded. Dorsal segments finely and
										sparsely punctate, the last two or three with numerous small rounded tubercles,
										the terminal segment triangular with lateral margins raised and apex truncate.
										Cerci hidden, but stout, rather short, tapering, the joints indistinct. Sixth
										ventral segment produced to meet the last dorsal one, its apex rounded and sides
										finely granulate. Female inseparable externally from the male. Length of body, ♂
										and ♀, 23.5--29; of pronotum, 7.1--8 mm. Width of pronotum, 9--9.9 mm.
								

								This peculiar roach occurs in hilly or mountainous regions from New York and
									Maryland, southwest to northern Georgia and central Kentucky; also in Oregon,
									Washington and California.22 It appears from the records to be most abundant in Virginia 22Scudder, Psyche, IX,
										1901, 288.
									 and North Carolina, where it is usually found in
									the sapwood of decaying chestnut or pine logs. At Glendale, Oregon, Hebard
										(1917a, 257) found two colonies "in fir logs only where the wood was
									soggy and the bark stripped easily. There directly under the bark and in
									burrowings in the sapwood the series was taken. Individuals eat their way through
									the sapwood, preferring the places where it is soft, soggy and decayed."
										Shelford (1907a, 4) states that the Panesthinæ "seem to derive
									their nourishment from the decayed wood in which they burrow."
							
						
					
				

				
					Suborder III. GRESSORIA.

					Orthopterous insects having the body long and slender; head exserted, often separated
						from the prothorax by a deep constriction; legs slim, the hind femora not enlarged. The
						name Gressoria, proposed by Fieber in 1853 to include the mantids and walking-sticks, is
						derived from the Latin and means "a walker." Fischer (1853) and
							Gerstacker (1863) adopted the name as proposed by Fieber. While it has
						not been much used in America, it affords a valid and easily understood term and is
						therefore used in this work, as proposed by Fieber, to include the two following
						families:

					
						KEY TO FAMILIES OF SUBORDER GRESSORIA.

						a. Front pair of legs raptorial, fitted for grasping; head strongly
							compressed, oblique, mouth inferior; eyes very large; ocelli three, rarely wanting;
							pronotum usually longer than any other segment; cerci jointed; subgenital plate of
							males bearing styles. Family III. MANTIDÆ, p.
								115.
						aa. Front pair of legs not raptorial, their femora usually slender and curved
							at base; head usually subquadrate, almost horizontal, mouth sub-inferior; eyes small;
							ocelli usually wanting; pronotum rarely longer than head; cerci not jointed; styles absent.
							Family IV. PHASMIDÆ, p. 130.
					

					The priority or rather inferiority of the Mantidæ is well set forth by Scudder
							(1869b) as follows: "The specialization of their anterior legs marks the higher
						structure of the Mantidæ, but they show their affinity to the Blattidæ and their
						inferiority to the Phasmidæ in their flattened abdomen, the tendency of the prothorax to
						become broad and flat, the structure of the external genital organs, the position of the
						head, and the exclusion of the eggs in a single cluster, enclosed in an oötheca.
					"The relation of the Phasmidæ to the saltatorial Orthoptera is also shown in the
						cylindrical body and, to some degree, in the structure of the external genital
						organs."


					

					

						Family III. MANTIDÆ. THE
								MANTIDS OR PRAYING INSECTS.

						This family is composed of elongate, slow moving insects, the most noticeable
							character of which is the possession of a front pair of legs so modified as to be
							fitted for grasping and holding their prey. The old name given to the group by
							Westwood was therefore Raptoria or graspers. The head is short, much
							wider than long, triangular, vertical, and loosely joined to the thorax in such a
							manner as to be freely movable; antennæ slender, usually filiform, rarely half as long
							as the body; eyes very large, convex, prominent; ocelli three in number,23 arranged on a triangular
							elevation just above the insertion of antennæ; pronotum in most of our species usually
							several times longer than broad, with the broadest portion in front of the middle and
							above the point of attachment of the long fore coxæ; both inner and outer wings
							present (except in the females of Oligonyx and Thesprotia) but often shorter than the abdomen in the females; the abdomen of
							that sex often much broader than that of the male, and without a visible ovipositor.
							Both sexes have a pair of short jointed cerci attached to the sides of the supra-anal
							plate, while the males have also a pair of much shorter styles near the apex of the
							subgenital plate. They have the fore legs stout and raptorial, the tibiæ terminating
							in a long claw and with the long, slender, five-jointed tarsi, when at rest, bent back
							into a groove on the under side of the spinous femur; middle and hind pairs of legs
							long, slender, and fitted for slow motion. As with the other non-saltatorial families,
							ears and organs for producing sound are absent.
						The members of this family have numerous popular names, the most common of which are
							the "praying insects" or "soothsayers," given them on account of the position which
							they take when at rest or when waiting to grasp another insect. The knees are then
							bent and the front legs held as though in supplication. In the southern States they
							are often called "mule killers," from the foolish belief that the brownish liquor
							which they give off from the mouth is fatal to mules. This name is, however, also
							applied to the "whip-scorpion," Thelyphorus giganteus Lucas, a large
							member of the order Arachnida, which inhabits that region. Other common names for the
							mantids are "devil-horses" and "rear-horses," given them on account of the long,
							slender thorax which, 23The ocelli are wanting in the females of Thesprotia.
							 when raised, makes them look like tiny giraffes. This
							attitude is assumed for defense and aggression and the insects are noted for their
							ferocity, pugnacity and tenacity to life.
						The mantids are all carnivorous, feeding principally upon the different forms of
							other insects. They are thus in the main beneficial, in this respect differing widely
							from all other members of the order Orthoptera, unless it be the tree crickets of the
							genus Oêcanthus, some of which are said to feed upon plant lice. They capture their
							prey by stealth, either awaiting motionless its near approach or crawling towards it
							very slowly, and when within reaching distance, seizing it with a sudden and rapid
							movement. Like other predatory insects, they have very voracious appetites. A male of
							the European species, Mantis religiosa L., which was introduced on
							nursery stock into New York State, was observed to eat, in one day, three large
							grasshoppers and a daddy-long-legs, and then tackled another mantis from which he was
							separated with difficulty. The eggs of mantids are numerous and are enclosed in a
							corresponding number of cells, arranged in regular rows and united in an ovoid mass,
							attached to twigs, walls or other support (Fig. 52). They are covered by a fibrous
							substance exuded by the female, which hardens when exposed to air and holds them
							firmly together.
						
							Fig. 50. Structures of Mantidæ. a, Pronotum of Stagmomantis. showing shape; b, of Mantoida;
									c, of Gonatista; d, facial shield of Staginomantis, showing width as compared with height; e,
								same of Mantis. (After Caudell.)
						
						The members of the family are widely distributed throughout the tropics, and our
							species are mostly confined to the southern States, only five being recorded from
							north and east of the Ohio River, two of these being introduced forms. The principal
							literature dealing especially with the North American species is as follows:
								Saussure, 1869, 1870a, 1871, 1871a, 1872; Westwood, 1889;
								Sauss. & Zehnt., 1894; Scudder, 1896; Caudell,
								1913; R. & H., 1916; Davis, 1918, 1919.
						Representatives of three of the six recognized subfamilies of Mantidæ occur in the
							eastern States.

						
							KEY TO SUB-FAMILIES OF UNITED STATES MANTIDÆ.

							aa. Head unarmed; upper surface of middle and hind femora and tibiæ
								rounded.
							b. Pronotum at least twice, and usually three or more times as long as broad
								and noticeably broadened in front, usually at the point of insertion of the fore
								coxæ (Fig. 50, a. c.) I. MANTINÆ, p. 117.


							

							bb. Pronotum subquadiate, but little longer than broad, its sides parallel
								(Fig. 50, b.) II. EREMIAPHILINÆ, p. 128.
							aa. Head armed at middle with a pair of processes, as long as the head
								itself; upper surface of middle and hind femora and tibiæ carinate. III. VATINÆ, p. 129.
						

						
							Subfamily I. MANTINÆ.

							To this subfamily, as characterized in the key, belong eleven of the fourteen
								genera of Mantidæ known from the United States. Of these seven are represented in
								the region east of the Mississippi River, six of them by only a single species
								each.

							
								KEY TO EASTERN GENERA OF MANTINÆ.

								a. Front tibia one-half or more the length of front femur; form robust
									that of female usually the more so; tegmina and wings present in both
									sexes.
								b. Margin of abdomen in both sexes entire; broadest part of pronotum far
									in advance of middle, the sides in front of this again more or less converging to
									apex, which is rounded (Fig. 50, a.)
								c. Larger, pronotum more than 10 mm. in length.
								d. Tegmina of female notably shorter than the abdomen; facial shield,
									(just below the antennæ) transverse, distinctly more than twice as wide as high
									(Fig. 50, d.)I. STAGMOMANTIS.
								dd. Tegmina of both sexes reaching or exceeding the tip of abdomen; facial
									shield not more than twice as wide as high (Fig. 50, e.)
								e. Inner surface of front coxæ with a large oval piceous spot on basal
									third; tips of tegmina and wings broadly rounded; length of body not over 60 mm.
										II. MANTIS.
								ee. Inner surface of front coxæ without a piceous spot; tips of tegmina
									and wings acutely rounded; length of body 80 or more mm. III.
											PARATENODERA.
								cc. Smaller, length of pronotum less than 10 mm. IV. CALLIMANTIS.
								bb. Margin of abdomen in female lobed, in male more or less serrate;
									broadest part of pronotum beginning about the middle, the sides nearly parallel
									from there to apex, which is almost truncate (Fig. 50, c.) V. GONATISTA.
								aa. Front tibia not more than one-third the length of front femur; form
									very slender in both sexes; tegmina and wings absent in the females.
								f. Front tibiæ longer than their apical claws; pronotum strongly narrowed
									in front of middle, its fore and hind sections sub-equal in length. VI. OLIGONYX.
								ff. Front tibiæ distinctly shorter than their apical claws; hind section
									of pronotum about three times as long as front one. VII. THESPROTIA.
							

							
								I. STAGMOMANTIS
									Saussure, 1869, 56. (Gr., "stigma bearing" + "prophet.")

								Body of male narrow, of female much broader. Head large, compressed, triangular;
									antennæ short, slender, inserted about  the middle
									of face below the center of eyes; vertex narrow, transverse, a little elevated
									above the eyes. Pronotum very long, in our species forming two-fifths the whole
									body, its apical third wider, with edges carinate and, in female, armed with
									minute distant teeth. Tegmina of female broad, opaque and bearing a spot or stigma
									of different texture near the center; tegmina of male narrow, longer than abdomen,
									with stigma often indistinct or wanting; wings of female, when expanded, of the
									form of a quarter circle, those of male longer and narrower. Abdomen of female
									large, more or less dilated; that of male narrow, the supra-anal plate small, its
									apex rounded; subgenital plate very large, its apical third much narrowed, styles
									very short.
								Stagmomantis is an exclusively American genus, 20 species,
									mostly from Central and South America, having been recognized by Kirby
										(1904, 252). A number of these are now known to be synonyms but several
									have since been described. Only five are known from the United States, and of
									these but two occur east of the Mississippi, the other three ranging from Texas to
									California.

								
									KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF STAGMOMANTIS.

									a. Female with abdomen subfusiform, broadest about the fourth segment;
										tegmina broad, reaching apical third of abdomen, their stigmatic patch black,
										conspicuous. 43. CAROLINA.
									aa. Female with abdomen subcylindrical, of nearly equal width
										throughout; tegmina narrower, reaching only to middle of abdomen, their
										stigmatic patch pale, inconspicuous or sub-obsolete. 44. FLORIDENSIS.
								

								
									43. STAGMOMANTIS CAROLINA
										(Johannson), 1763, 396. Carolina Mantis.

									Male, grayish-brown; tegmina semi-transparent, grayish, more or less mottled
										with smoky brown, sometimes almost wholly of the latter color; body and legs
										often in part greenish-yellow; inner wings hyaline, sometimes tinged with
										pinkish. Female either greenish-yellow with bright green tegmina and legs (irrorata Linn.) or dark brown like the ♂; stigmatic patch black
										bordered with pale yellow, more distinct in the green form. Length of body, ♂,
										48--55, ♀, 51--57; of pronotum, ♂, 15--17.5, ♀, 19--22; of tegmina, ♂, 32--38,
										♀, 20--23 mm. (Fig. 51.)
								
								
									Fig. 51. Stagmomantis carolina (Johann.) female.
								

								A species of southern range, occurring frequently in the southern half of Indiana
									and quite common in the counties bordering  the Ohio
									River. It extends as far north as Marion and Putnam counties, where it is found
									sparingly, though a dozen or more specimens have been brought to me in
									Indianapolis, all of them females. S. G. Evans, of Evansville, in a letter says:
									"The Mantids are found here of all sizes and colors, the eggs and young being
									almost as common as mosquitoes. I have, on several occasions, placed male and
									female together in a glass jar, and the female always devoured the male, and
									generally while in the act of copulating, the bodies remaining together until the
									male was almost consumed." At Indianapolis the females evidently reach maturity
									about September 1st, most specimens being brought in about that date or later; the
									green and brown forms of the female being about equally numerous. In Putnam County
									it has been noted by John S. Michaels, near Bainbridge. A pair, both of the dark
									hue, were found mating in Perry Co., Sept. 25. They were on the stem of a weed
									within a foot of the ground and the abdomen of the female was greatly distended by
									the large mass of eggs enclosed.
								S. carolina occurs throughout Florida, having been recorded
									from numerous localities from Jacksonville, Live Oak and Pensacola south to
									Homestead and Key West, the dates ranging throughout the year. Nymphs have been
									taken by me at Okeechobee City, Cape Sable and Key West in February and March. A
									female from Punta Gorda is recorded by R. & H. (1914d) as "having
									the body 75 mm. and the pronotum 27.5 mm., in length." In Florida this mantis is
									usually found in the undergrowth of pine woods, palmetto scrub, etc., though it is
									liable to occur anywhere about orchards, gardens and borders of cultivated
									fields.
								The Carolina mantis ranges from central Ohio (Kostir) and
									Indiana east to Pennsylvania and southern New Jersey, west to Nebraska and Utah
									and south to Arizona, Mexico and Cuba. Adventive specimens have also been recorded
									from Rhode Island and New York. The type of Bactromantis virga
									Scudder (1896, 213) at Cambridge shows that it was based upon an
									immature male of S. carolina, so that both the genus Bactromantis and the species fall in synonymy. Mantis
										wheeleri
									Thos. (1875, 849), M. stolli
									Sauss. (1869, 65) and M. dimidiata
									Sauss. (1871, 48) are also regarded as synonyms.
								When in the presence of its prey the Carolina mantis moves almost imperceptibly
									along, stealing toward its victim like a cat approaching a mouse. When
									sufficiently near, the foreleg is  suddenly extended
									to its full length and the unlucky insect is immediately caught and impaled by the
									spines between the tibia and femur, carried to the mouth and deliberately eaten
									piecemeal while yet alive and struggling to escape. When the two sexes are
									captured and placed together the female soon begins to feed upon her liege lord,
									and finally devours all portions of him which are in the least degree digestible.
										Riley (1869, 169) states that their prey consists mainly of flies,
									but that he has "know them to attack various kinds of butterflies, including the
									male bag-worm, grasshoppers and caterpillars of many kinds, and in one instance a
									single female mantis devoured eleven living Colorado potato beetles during one
									night, leaving only the wing cases and parts of the legs."
								The eggs of the Carolina mantis are laid in cases or masses, about an inch long,
									which are attached to the twigs of trees or other support (Fig. 52). The case is
									tough and horny, and the eggs are laid in parallel rows, twenty to forty in a row,
									issuing from a common longitudinal middle line. All of the eggs stand on end and
									are inclined somewhat toward the central channel. A cluster of eggs has a braided
									appearance, but consists simply of a continuous ribbon of mucus folded in close
									flutings and having an egg deposited in the bight or angle of each fold. The eggs
									are deposited simultaneously with the deposition of this ribbon by the mother
									insect, and the whole mass is at first soft and flexible, but rapidly hardens by
									exposure to the air. In this manner the species survives the winter and in May,
									when insect life begins to abound, the young emerge and use their prominent,
									staring eyes to good advantage in seeking plant lice and other minute forms which
									furnish them their first of many meals. The eggs are frequently parasitized by a
									very peculiar chalcis fly, Podagrion mantis Ashm., which
									penetrates the tough egg mass with its long ovipositor, and whose larva feed upon
									the eggs. Thus egg masses taken by the observer in the winter and kept for the
									hatching of the young will frequently in the spring give out those parasites
									instead of the young mantids.
								
									Fig. 52. Eggcases of Stagmoantis carolina (Joh.),
										three-fourths natural size. (After Riley.)
								

								
									44. STAGMOMANTIS FLORIDENSIS
										Davis, 1919, 4. Larger Florida Mantis.

									More slender than S. carolina. Body and legs
										greenish-yellow;  tegmina of ♀ green, often with
										front margin yellowish, of ♂, hyaline, the stigmatic patch faint in ♀, absent in
										♂. Pronotum slender, its greatest width contained a little over five times in
										the length. Inner wings yellowish, tessellate on the outer half only, the basal
										portion and front margin without translucent spaces. Length of body, ♂ , 62, ♀,
										58--71; of pronotum, ♂, 22, ♀, 24--27.5; of tegmina, ♂, 38, ♀, 22--24; of hind
										femora, ♂, 17, ♀, 18--21 mm. (Fig. 53.)
								
								
									Fig. 53. Female, type. (After Davis.)
								

								Dunedin, Fla., Oct. 25, one female; Utopia, Fla., March 4, one nymph (W. S. B.). Described from Punta Gorda and Parish, Fla., and also
									recorded by Davis, loc. cit., from Pablo Beach, Carrabelle, La Grange and
									Everglade, July--September. Not known outside of Florida, where it is said by
									Davis to be associated with and about equally as common as S.
										carolina.
							

							
								II. MANTIS
									Linnæus, 1758, 425. (Gr., "a seer or prophet.")

								Medium sized species distinguished from Stagmomantis by the
									characters given in the key and by having the tegminal stigma of female wanting or
									of the same color as the tegmina. Pronotum in our single introduced species
									proportionally shorter and broader than in Stagmomantis, the
									margins in the female finely and densely serrate for three-fourths of their
									length. Subgenital plate of male smaller and less tapering and the cerci and
									styles longer and stouter. Nine species are recognized by Kirby, all inhabitants
									of the Eastern Continent.

								
									45. MANTIS RELIGIOSA
										Linnæus, 1758, 426. Praying Mantis, European Mantis.

									Female, elongate robust; ♂, more slender. Body and legs green or
										greenish-yellow; tegmina of ♂ broader, uniform grass-green, those of ♂ paler
										green, often almost hyaline, narrowly edged with brown, in both sexes reaching
										or slightly surpassing the tip of abdomen; wings as long as tegmina, transparent
										or very pale green. Pronotum of male with sides 
										very finely serrate in front of the dorsal transverse impression. Length of
										body, ♂, 47--51, ♀, 52--56; of pronotum, ♂, 13--15, ♀, 16.5--18; of tegmina, ♂,
										33--35, ♀, 38--40 mm.
								

								An introduced European species, first recorded from the United States as
									occurring near Rochester, N. Y., by Slingerland,24 under the name of Stagmomantis
										carolina, and next by Scudder,25 under its true name. The specimens at hand were taken
									at Rochester in September, 1913, so that it appears to have become thoroughly
									established, not only at Rochester, but also through eggcases from there at Ithaca
											(Davis, 1918). Kirby (1904, 250)
									gives its distribution as "Southern and Central Europe, Northern and Western Asia
									and Northern Africa." Latreille (1831, 9) states that it is very
									common in the southern parts of France and Italy, that it is sometimes brown and
									immaculate, and that the Turks entertain for it a religious respect. An egg-case
									at hand is oval, 20x40x15 mm. in size, and less compact than that of the Carolina
									mantis. The young, when first hatched, are said to be much elongated and to have a
									singular habit of suspending themselves from the egg-case by slender threads
									attached to the cerci. The females are said by Schmaltz,26 who collected them in numbers at
									Rochester, to hide under long grasses and to attach their egg-cases to weeds or
									grasses within two or three inches of the ground. He states also that both sexes
									vary greatly in color, some individuals, being almost gray while others are green,
									yellow, pale brown or dark brown.
							

							
								III. PARATENODERA
									Rehn, 1903g, 705 (Gr., "slender" + "neck.")

								Very elongate, robust species having the head broad, the facial shield about
									twice as wide as high; pronotum rather short, stout, but feebly widened at
									transverse impression which is not less than one-fourth from apex, side margins in
									female, finely and thickly serrate, apex broadly rounded; tegmina and wings fully
									developed, more or less hyaline in both sexes, their tips subacute, stigma absent;
									front legs stout, their coxe with the lower margin strongly toothed. This genus
									was separated by Rehn from Tenodera Burm. with the following
									species as the type.

								
									46. PARATENODERX SINENSIS
										(Saussure), 1871a, 295. Chinese Mantis.

									Females with body and legs green or greenish-yellow, tegmina and wings
										green, subhyaline; males either of the same hue or wholly brown or brown with
										the marginal field of tegmina green, and with both tegmina 24Entom. News, 1899, 288.
										
											25Psyche, 1900, 119.
										
											26Ent. News, 1914, 178.
										 and wings more strongly hyaline. Pronotum of ♂
										subcarinate; of ♀ strongly carinate behind the transverse impression, in front
										of which it is bicarinate with the carinæ granulate. Tegmina with the marginal
										field very large; wings with the discoidal vein biramose. Length of body, ♂,
										83--87, ♀, 85--104; of pronotum, ♂, 27--30, ♀, 27--31; of tegmina, ♂, 60--62, ♀,
										58--64 mm.
								

								This large Asiatic species was accidentally introduced by a nurseryman at Mt.
									Airy, near Philadelphia, Pa., about 1896, and seems to have become thoroughly
									established. Laurent states (Ent. News, 1902, 62)
									that at Mt. Airy it "likes blackberry and briar bushes as a place of abode and
									avoids low ground with low herbage." From 150 to 300 young emerge from each egg
									mass in June, and mature about the first of October. It is a very beneficial
									insect and egg masses from the Mt. Airy colony have been introduced at many points
									in New Jersey, New York and Connecticut, but at no place do they seem to have done
									as well as at the point of original introduction. Davis (1918) has
									given an interesting account of the attempts to increase the distribution of this
									beneficial mantis in the region mentioned. Saussure's types were from Ningpo,
									China, and it is a well known insect in that country and Japan. Although a native
									of a semi-tropical region, it seems to be able to withstand without difficulty the
									rigors of the Pennsylvania winters.

								Weiss (1914) has given a description of the egg-case of P. sinensis stating that it is peculiar in that it consists of a central,
									somewhat horny core containing the eggs. These are arranged in from 12 to 18
									layers, averaging 15 eggs each, or a total average of 225 eggs in each case. The
									central core is surrounded by a porous rind or outer fibrous envelope "which
									undoubtedly serves to protect the eggs from moisture and sudden changes in
									temperature." A number of tests made by him showed that the interiors of nests
									entirely immersed in water for an hour and three-quarters remained perfectly dry.
									At the end of two hours the outer rind became moist but the water had not reached
									the core. The average thickness of the core was 12 mm., and of the enveloping rind
									5.6 mm., while the average weight of a nest or case was 1.63 grams, of a core,
									1.34 grams and of a rind .29 grams, "showing that five-sixths of the total weight
									consists of the core containing the eggs, the remaining sixth of the porous
									protecting rind."
							

							
								IV. CALLIANTIS
									Stål, 1877, 39. (Gr., "handsome" + "prophet")

								Short, slender bodied species having the head rather small, compressed; antennæ
									shorter than pronotum in both sexes; face deeply concave between the eyes; ocelli
									of medium size. Pronotum short, its basal portion very slender, the apical one as
									wide again,  elongate-oval, with sides at middle
									nearly parallel and apex and base rounded. Tegmina and wings narrow, shorter than
									abdomen in female, equal to it in male; the anal and axillary veins of tegmina
									free and simple throughout. Front legs stout, their tibiæ three-fifths the length
									of femur, armed with numerous small spines. Abdomen of female fusiform, of male
									slender; supra-anal plate prolonged in the form of a tongue. Two species are
									known, one occurring in the West Indies, the other in our Southern States.

								
									47. CALLIMANTIS FLORIDANA
										Scudder, 1896, 210. Smaller Florida Mantis.

									Male, pale brownish-yellow; tegmina and wings hyaline flecked with fuscous,
										stigma wanting; tibiæ of middle and hind legs greenish. Pronotum of a with sides
										unarmed, its widened front portion sulcate just behind and in front of the
										transverse impression. Hind femora without apical spine. Length of body, ♂, 35;
										of pronotum, ♀; of tegmina, 22 mm.
								

								The above description is that of a male taken near Brownsville, Texas. Scudder's
									unique type was from Florida without definite locality. The female is as yet
									unknown and the range of the species undetermined.
							

							
								V. GONATISTA
									Saussure, 1869, 54. (Gr., "a kneeler.")

								Body short and broad in female, more slender in male; head short, compressed;
									antennæ inserted opposite the base of eyes, hair-like, half the length of body;
									eyes very large, globose, prominent; ocelli large in male, much smaller in female;
									face in appearance somewhat excavated on account of the prominent eyes. Pronotum
									about two and a fourth times as long as broad, disk depressed, but with an
									elevation or hump on front and middle thirds with a depression between and with
									two small tubercles on hind margin, widest about the middle, front margin
									truncate, with angles rounded; sides of front half parallel, those of posterior
									half feebly converging to base (Fig. 50, c). Tegmina of female
									broad, covering three-fourths of abdomen; stigma small, narrow, often indistinct;
									those of male narrower, surpassing the abdomen, more membranous; wings ample,
									about as long as tegmina. Fore legs rather stout, their tibiæ with five or six
									large spines on lower outer border, with numerous small ones intervening; inner
									border with twelve or more strong spines. Abdomen of male depressed, of medium
									width, with margin feebly serrate; of female large and broad, the border coarsely
									serrate or lobed.
								Gonatista is an American genus, three of the four species  recognized by Caudell (1912) occurring
									in the West Indies, the other one in our Southern States.

								
									48. GONATISTA GRISEA
										(Fabricius), 1793, 22. Grizzled Mantis.

									Female grayish, more or less mottled with fuscous; tegmina with two oblique
										fuscous crossbars on apical half; inner wings bluish-black, their margins
										hyaline; fore legs gray tinged with greenish and sprinkled with fuscous; middle
										and hind legs with narrow fuscous crossbars. Male with body and legs dull
										yellow, the latter barred with fuscous; tegmina and wings hyaline, the former
										usually more or less thickly sprinkled with small fuscous spots and larger
										blotches. Pronotum not carinate in either sex, its front half with a narrow
										median groove; side margins in female finely serrate. Length of body, ♂, 36--38,
										♀, 37--40; of pronotum, ♂, 9--11, ♀, 10--11; of tegmina, ♂, 30--33, ♀, 18--23
										mm.
								

								Known from Indiana only by a single female collected by S. G. Evans at
									Evansville, who wrote that he must have supposed it to be a short-bodied form of
										S. carolina, and therefore has no record of date or exact
									locality of its capture. It may therefore have been introduced on tropical fruits.
									Dunedin, Florida, Feb. 5--June 4 (W. S. B.) ; the latter
									specimen at porch light. Gainesville, Fla., Aug. 13; on magnolia. West Palm Beach,
									May 22--June 12; a half dozen adults and nymphs, resting on gray bark and
									therefore almost invisible (Dury). R. & H. give numerous
									additional records from the southern third of Florida, stating (1914c, 383) that
									at Key West they "were taken chiefly from gumbo-limbo trees in the heavy key scrub
									jungle and also on sea grape. The insects were always on the trunks or branches,
									generally about six feet above the ground. They were perfectly protected when in
									their resting position, being then closely pressed against the bark of the tree.
									When disturbed they would make off with a rapid scuttling run."
								In this country the grizzled mantis occurs from extreme southern Florida
									northward to Savannah, Ga., and Charlestown, S. C. It has also been recorded from
									Texas, Cuba and San Domingo. Scudder, Saussure and Kirby all regarded Mantis reticulata Thunb. and M. phryganoides Serv. as
									synonyms, but Caudell (1912) restored both names as valid species,
									basing his table wholly on the length and maculation of the male tegmina, two
									exceedingly variable characters. One of the males of G. grisea
									from West Palm Beach has the tegmina but 30 mm. in length and almost immaculate,
									which would cause it to run by Caudell's table to phryganoides
									Serv., and it is very doubtful whether that species will stand.
							


							

							
								VI. OLIGONYX
									Saussure, 1869, 58. (Gr., "few" + "spines.")

								Very slender species having the head broad, strongly compressed; antennæ
									setaceous, pubescent, half as long as body, male, one-half shorter, female; eyes
									prominent; ocelli very large in male, very small in female; vertex in the form of
									a ridge with a prominent tubercle at each end. Pronotum slender, finely carinate,
									dilated just in front of middle, thence narrowed to the rounded apex; basal half
									broader with sides parallel, margins distinctly serrate, female, minutely so,
									male. Tegmina and wings of male membranous, narrow, not passing the fifth segment
									of abdomen; of female wholly wanting. Legs very slender; inner margin of upper
									surface of front coxæ abruptly dilated at apex; front tibiæ very short, with but
									four to six spines, the terminal one very large. Abdomen in both sexes slender,
									cylindrical; supra-anal plate very long, lanceolate; cerci in our species
									awl-shaped, cylindrical.
								This is also an exclusively American genus represented in Mexico, Central and
									South America by a half dozen or more species and in the Eastern United States, as
									far as known, by only one.

								
									49. OLIGONYX SCUDDERI
										Saussure, 1870b, 239. Scudder's Mantis.

									Male brownish-yellow, more or less mottled with fuscous; legs, pronotum and
										margins of wings pubescent. Tegmina of male as long as the wings, both very
										thin, translucent, their tips rounded; in female represented only by lateral
										prolongations of the meso- and metathorax. Front tibiæ only one-third the length
										of femur, armed with five spines. Length of body, ♂ and ♀, 34--37; of pronotum,
										♂, 7--8, ♀, 9; of tegmina, ♀, 24 mm.
								

								Sanford, Fla., March 28, (W. S. B.). This graceful little
									mantis occurs only in the Southern States, having been recorded by R. &
										H. (1916, 123) from South Carolina, Georgia and Florida. In Florida it
									has been taken at Crescent City, Punta Gorda and Miami, and doubtless occurs in
									small numbers throughout the State. It is usually found close to the ground, on
									the grass and other undergrowth of pine woods. 0. uhleri
									Stal (1877, 66), described from Louisiana, was considered by Caudell
									to be only a dark form of scudderi, and his opinion is upheld by
									R. & H. A Texan form, 0. bollianus
									Sauss. & Zehnt. (1894, 173) is regarded by the same authorities
									as only a variety of scudderi. A record of 0.
										scudderi from New Mexico by Scudder and Cockerell (1902, 20)
									probably refers to this form.
							


							

							
								VII. THESPROTIA
									Stål, 1877, 45.

								Very slender elongate species, having the head strongly compressed; antennæ
									filiform, more than half the length of body, male, much shorter, female; eyes
									large, obovate; ocelli in our species absent in female; very large in male.
									Pronotum very long, linear, feebly dilated above the fore coxæ, thence narrowed
									with sides almost parallel to the subtruncate apex; tegmina and wings of male
									about two-thirds as long as abdomen, their tips rounded. Abdomen very long and
									slender in both sexes; supra-anal plate lanceolate, carinate above, projecting
									much beyond the subgenital plate, which in the male is angulate each side at tip
									at the insertion of the slender tapering styles. Front legs very slender, coxæ and
									femora subequal in length; tibia only one-fourth the length of femur, bearing
									three slender subapical black-tipped spines and a much longer, stouter terminal
									one. The species of this genus are confined to the Western Continent, five being
									known from South America and one from the Southern United States.

								
									50. THESPROTIA GRAMINIS
										(Scudder), 1877a, 90. Grass-like Mantis.

									Pale brown or brownish-yellow; head, pronotum and legs sparsely dotted with
										fuscous; antennæ, pronotum, abdomen and margins of wings pubescent. Head with a
										strong triangular tubercle above each eye. Pronotum finely carinate above, the
										carina evanescent in front; sides minutely toothed in both sexes. Tegmina and
										wings of male hyaline, the former the shorter, reaching base of fourth abdominal
										segment, the wings protruding 3--4 mm. beyond their tips. Cerci 7-jointed, about
										4 mm. in length, depressed, pubescent. Length of body, ♂, 47--50, ♀, 52--56; of
										pronotum, ♂, 12.5--14, ♀, 16--19; of tegmina, ♂, 18--21 mm.
								

								This, our most slender-bodied mantid, has been taken by me at Sanford, Sarasota,
									Dunedin, Lakeland, Ft. Myers, Key West and LaBelle, Fla., Nov. 1--April 10. About
									Dunedin it occurs throughout the winter on wire grass and other undergrowth in
									open pine woods, and has been frequently taken therefrom while sweeping for
									beetles. Four males were taken, Dec. 11 and March 22, on the screen door of my
									residence, and were perhaps attracted by light. Scudder's unique male type was
									from Ft. Reed, Fla., and the species has been recorded from many different
									localities throughout the State. R. & H. (1905) state that it is
									often found "in the pine straw of the pine woods which it so closely resembles as
									to be invisible when stationary." They also mention (1914d, 101) a specimen from
									Punta Gorda 60.5 mm. in length. Scudder records the species from Georgia and
										R. & H. (1916, 124) give  six
									different localities in that State at which it had been taken. Of these Isle of
									Hope was the most northern and they state that it will doubtless be found to occur
									in southern South Carolina, It has been received by Davis from Mississippi and a
									female in the U. S. National Museum is labelled New York, but doubtless represents
									an adventive or accidentally introduced specimen.
							
						

						
							Subfamily II. EREMIAPHILINÆ.

							In this subfamily the body is rather slender, pubescent; head large, eyes
								prominent, globose; pronotum short, subquadrate, not dilated above the front coxæ
								(Fig. 50, b) ; tegmina elongate, membranous; legs short, slender; abdomen filiform,
								flattened; supra-anal plate very short. A single genus and species represent the
								subfamily in the United States.

							
								I. MANTOIDA
									Newm., 1838, 178. (Gr., "prophet" + "like.")

								In addition to the characters of the subfamily as above given, this genus has the
									front of head vertical, antennæ rather stout, much longer than body; wings shorter
									than tegmina, their axillary field much shorter than the humeral one; front tibiæ
									terminating in a stout claw or spine; middle and hind legs densely clothed with
									seta-like hairs. Our only species is

								
									51. MANTOIDA MAYA
										Sauss. & Zehnt., 1894, 125. Little Yucatan Mantis.

									Female fulvous-testaceous. Head large; eyes very prominent, globose; ocelli
										small rounded-oval; occiput black with broad yellow median stripe; face and
										antennæ blackish-fuscous, first joint of latter testaceous beneath. Pronotum
										black with median vitta and lateral margins dull yellow. Tegmina and wings
										nebulous-hyaline, with brownish ferruginous veins, the costal margins darker;
										tegminal stigmata vitreous. Legs testaceous; front femora stout, angulate within
										at base, their spurs brown; front tibiæ black above the apex, spines and apex
										also black, seven spines on inner side longer than claw, four on outer side;
										middle and hind tibiæ, and tarsi armed beneath with a row of minute spines along
										each margin, their tips densely spinulosely pilose. Abdomen slender,
										blackish-fuscous, beneath and at apex varied with testaceous or fuscous.
										Supra-anal plate strongly developed, transverse, obtusely angulate; subgenital
										plate of equal length. Length of body, ♀, 15.5; of pronotum, 2.3; of front
										femora, 3.3; of tegmina, 12.5 mm.
								

								This little mantid was described from northern Yucatan and the first record for
									this country was that of Caudell (Can. Ent., 1911, 156), based on a
									specimen from Florida (probably from Kissimmee) found in the collection of the
									late Chas. Palm. It was labelled "Mantispa, sp. Neuropt," as it
									bears a close resemblance  to the members of the
									Neuroptoid genus Mantispa. This was noted by Saussure who states
									(1871, 10) : "Ces insectes ont les facies de Neuropteres, et Perty les avait meme
									classes dans cet ordre." A second specimen, which I saw at Philadelphia, was taken
									at Key West, July 7, 1912, by R. & H., who state that it "was taken while
									swiftly running about on the ground under high jungle brush." There is no other
									record of its occurrence within our bounds, but it will probably be found in small
									numbers throughout subtropical Florida.
							
						

						
							Subfamily III. VATINÆ.

							Elongate slender species, having the antennæ of male pectinate or serrate; middle
								of head armed with two corneous processes which are united at base; middle and hind
								femora and tibiæ multi-carinate above. This subfamily is represented in the United
								States by two genera, a single species of one being recorded from the eastern
								portion.

							
								I. PHYLLOVATES
									Kirby, 1904, 302. (Gr., "leaf" + "prophet.")

								Head triangular, transverse; antennæ of male serrate or subpectinate; pronotum
									slender, feebly and gradually dilated in front, the broader portion more or less
									rhomboidal with apex rounded; tegmina and wings fully developed; front legs
									slender, their tarsi rather short and broad.

								
									(----). PHYLLOVATES CHLOROPHÆA
										(Blanchard), 1836, pl. 135. Greenish-brown Mantis.

									Female in great part green; male usually brown, with tegmina and wings
										hyaline, their marginal field and tips green. Frontal processes of head 3--3.5
										mm. in length, more slender in male. Pronotum narrow, elongate, carinate and
										finely granulate above, the margins finely serrate, more finely and less densely
										so in male. Tegmina of female greenish-opaque with usually a fuscous band near
										apex, their marginal field wide. strongly concave near apex; those of male more
										narrow with front border subsinuate, feebly concave at middle; wings of female
										fuscous-brown, greenish-brown toward apex. Length of body, ♂, 65, ♀, 67; of
										pronotum, ♂, 29, ♀, 31; of tegmina, ♂, 48, ♀, 40 mm.
								

								Blanchard's type of this mantis was from Watertown, N. Y., and was probably
									accidentally introduced. Scudder has recorded it from the "Gulf States" and (1896,
									209) more definitely from Louisiana. It is known from Central America, occurs
									throughout Mexico, and is liable to be found anywhere in the extreme southern
									portion of the area covered by this paper. It is therefore included as an
									adventive species which has not yet become a known resident.
							
						
					



					

					
						Family IV. PHASMIDÆ. THE WALKING-STICKS.

						This family of non-saltatorial Orthoptera comprises the insects commonly known as
							walking-sticks. The North American species have the body elongate, very slender,
							subcylindrical; head free, nearly horizontal, usually subquadrate; antennæ long,
							rather stout; eyes small, ocelli often absent; pronotum very short; abdomen elongate,
							composed of ten segments, the basal one usually closely united with the metathorax,
							often invisible; tegmina and wings absent (except in the genus Aplopus), the location of the wings generally indicated by a stationary
							wing-like pad, bearing a gland; legs very long and slender, of nearly equal size;
							tarsi, in our eastern genera, 5-jointed, terminated by two claws between which is a
							large pad (arolium); ovipositor concealed by the subgenital plate; cerci not
							jointed.
						Our species of Phasmidæ are remarkable for their resemblance to twigs of different
							plants, while some of the tropical species are so modified as to resemble leaves,
							frequently bearing so close a resemblance to the foliage as to deceive a keen
							observer. Their movements are, in general, very slow, though the males can run with
							some rapidity when in pursuit of the opposite sex. They feed during their entire lives
							upon leaves, being especially fond of those of oak and wild cherry. The eggs are
							dropped loosely and singly upon the ground by the mother, where they remain through
							the winter, thus tiding the insect over the cold season. The outer case or shell of
							the egg is hard and often sculptured, and those of our common species resemble seeds
							or small beans. The young, when hatched, trust to chance and their peculiar shape to
							escape those higher animal forms which are ever ready to prey upon every moving object
							which promises them a bit of sustenance. The largest living insects are
							walking-sticks, found in Borneo and other East India Islands, two of the wingless
							forms having the body 33 cm. or 13 inches in length.
						That the Phasmidæ have the power of reproducing their lost or broken legs has been
							shown by Scudder. Such restored limbs are much smaller and have but three or four
							tarsal joints,27 the usual
							fourth joint being absent. If the leg is removed in front of the trochanto-femoral
							joint it is never reproduced.
						The family is, in the main, a tropical one, and is feebly 27Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., XII, 1868,
								138.
							 represented in the United States, where but five of the
							16 recognized subfamilies are known to occur. Three of these subfamilies are
							represented in the Eastern United States by six genera and eleven species. The
							following literature treats especially of the North American representatives of the
							family: Riley, 1879; Scudder, 1895, 1901; Caudell,
								1903a, 1913, 1918; Brunner, 1907; Severin, 1911, 1911a,
								1913; R. & H., 1916; Somes, 1916.

						
							KEY TO EASTERN SUBFAMILIES OF PHASMIDÆ.

							a. Mesothorax four or more times as long as prothorax; hind and middle tibiæ
								not deeply emarginate beneath at apex.
							b. Tegmina and wings absent; median segment not or barely longer than broad;
								head unarmed above. I. BACUNCULINÆ, p.
								131.
							bb. Adults with short tegmina and wings; median segment longer than broad;
								head armed above with two short horns. II. PHIBALOSOMINÆ, p. 143.
							aa. Mesothorax never more than three times as long as prothorax; hind and
								middle tibiæ broadly and deeply emarginate beneath at apex, thus forming a cavity to
								receive the base of the tarsi when bent upon them. III. ANISOMORPHINÆ, p. 144.
						

						
							Subfamily I. BACUNCULINÆ.

							This subfamily comprises the longest and most slender of our North American
								walking-sticks. They have the mesothorax usually five or more times as long as
								prothorax; antennæ in our eastern genera more than twice as long as the front
								femora; tibiæ without a sunken areola beneath the apex; tarsi five-jointed. Seven of
								the United States genera belong to this subfamily. Of these representatives of four
								have been recorded from the area covered by this work.

							
								KEY TO EASTERN GENERA OF BACUNCULINÆ.

								a. Head subquadrate or subcylindrical, usually distinctly longer than
									broad, attached obliquely or horizontally; small or medium sized species, rarely
									over 95 mm. in length; hind femora without a row of spines beneath; cerci of male
									not spatulate.
								b. Hind femora of both sexes armed beneath with a subapical spine,
									prominent in male, smaller in female; middle femora of male usually distinctly
									thicker than the hind ones; head subquadrate, but slightly longer than broad. I. DIAPHEROMERA.
								bb. Hind femora unarmed beneath; middle femora of male not or but slightly
									thicker than the hind ones.
								c. Middle femora armed beneath with a distinct subapical spine; head
									subcylindrical, twice or more as long as broad. II. MANOMERA.
								cc. Middle femora not spined beneath.III. HETERONEMIA.


								

								aa. Head short, ovate, scarcely longer than broad, attached subvertically;
									very large species, length 115 or more mm.; hind femora, at least in female, with
									a median row of strong spines beneath; cerci of male broadly spatulate. IV. MEGAPHASMA.
							

							
								I. DIAPHEROMERA
									Gray, 1835, 18. (Gr., "unequal" + "thigh.")


								Body long, slender, subcylindrical; head smooth, obliquely attached to thorax;
									antennæ inserted in front of eyes; pronotum about as long as head, less than
									one-fourth the length of mesonotum, the latter longer than any other segment;
									metanotum about three-fourths the length of mesonotum; basal segment of abdomen
									oblong, in male twice as long as broad. Legs very long and slender, middle femora
									of male much swollen, armed, like those of hind pair on under side near apex, with
									an acute spine, most prominent in male. Cerci of male long, terete and incurved;
									those of female short, straight. The species of this genus are widely distributed
									over the United States east of the Rocky Mountains, three of the seven recognized
									having been recorded from east of the Mississippi.
								
									Fig. 54. Apical portions of abdomen of Phasmidæ, showing relative length of
										segments, cerci, etc.; a, of Diapheromera
											femorata Say, male, b, female; c, of
											Manomera blatchleyi Caud., male, d,
										female. (After Hart.)
								

								
									KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF DIAPHEROMERA.

									a. Seventh segment of abdomen distinctly longer than eighth in both
										sexes (Fig. 54, a); base and apex of ninth abdominal segment
										of male subequal in width; meso- and mentanotum without median black dorsal
										stripe.
									b. Cerci of male with a blunt basal tooth or tubercle; cerci of female
										about half as long as the last dorsal segment (Fig. 54, b.)
											52. FEMORATA.
									bb. Cerci of male with an acute and slender basal tooth; cerci of female
										more slender, almost or quite as long as the last dorsal segment (Fig. 54, d.) 53. VELIEI.
									aa. Seventh and eighth segments of abdomen subequal in length; apex of
										ninth abdominal segment of male inflated, nearly half as broad again as base;
										cerci of male without a basal tooth or tubercle; meso- and metanotum with a
										broad blackish dorsal stripe. 54. CAROLINA.
								


								

								
									52. DIAPHEROMERA FEMORATA
										(Say), 1824a, 297. Common Walking-stick.

									Color variable, being either gray, brown or greenish-brown; body of male
										usually greenish-brown, sometimes almost wholly green; head yellowish with three
										vague lengthwise fuscous stripes; front legs and tibiæ of the others usually
										green; middle femora often banded with dark gray; female duller, usually
										grayish-brown, often with paler specks and mottlings on head and back. Head
										smooth in both sexes, subquadrate; eyes round, more prominent in male; antennaæ
										very slender, about as long as body. Abdomen smooth, basal segment about twice
										as long as broad in female, three times as long as broad in male, seventh
										segment in male three times as long as eighth. Cerci of male cylindrical, oval
										at apex, clothed with short stiff hairs, strongly curved inward and usually
										crossing near middle; of female, straight stout, rather blunt, pubescent. The
										male is easily distinguished by the shorter and more slender body, longer legs
										and antennæ, narrower and less dilated front femora, swollen middle femora and
										by the greater stoutness of the subapical spines beneath the middle and hind
										femora. Length of body, ♂, 68--84, ♀, 70--101; of antennæ, ♂, 58--65, ♀, 45--57;
										of mesothorax, ♂, 17--18, ♀, 16--20; of metathorax, ♂, 15--16, ♀, 13.5--18; of
										hind femora, ♂, 19.5--21, ♀, 15--19 mm. Fig. 55.
								

								
									Fig. 55. Diapheromera femorata (Say.) Male.
								

								This walking-stick is quite a common insect throughout Indiana, though the
									average observer will probably see but one or two of them a year. They reach
									maturity in August, and may then often be found upon the leaves of oak or wild
									cherry, especially on isolated trees along fence rows. One of my students at Terre
									Haute once brought in on October 15, a hundred or more which he had gotten from a
									wild cherry tree on whose leaves they had been feeding. It moves very slowly and
									has a habit of remaining motionless and apparently dead for a considerable length
									of time. On such occasions it usually stretches itself out from a twig with its
									front legs and antennæ extended, and can then 
									scarcely be distinguished from a prolongation or branch of the twig. Many people
									who see them thus for the first time and afterwards watch them moving slowly away,
									can scarcely be persuaded that they are not real twigs, gifted in some mysterious
									manner with life and motion. On September 18, 1918, they were found in numbers in
									a grove of the black locust in Putnam County, 40 or more specimens being secured
									in a few minutes. They were usually found mating on the boles of the locust and
									when approached and touched would drop to the ground and there remain
									motionless.
								D. femorata is the most common and widely distributed Phasmid
									in the United States, ranging from Maine to the Rocky Mountains, north to central
									Ontario and Selkirk, Manitoba, and south and southwest at least to northern
									Florida, northern Texas and the Organ Mountains, New Mexico. In Florida it has
									been recorded from Monticello by Davis (1915) and several specimens
									labelled "Gainesville, Aug. 15" are in the collection of the Florida Experiment
									Station. R. & H. (1916, 124) record it from Virginia, North and
									South Carolina, and from numerous stations in Georgia, and state that a male from
									Albany, Ga., is 84.5 mm. in length, and that the material from the four states
									mentioned "was all taken in the undergrowth of pine and oak woods." A female at
									hand from near Mobile, Ala., 101 mm. in length, has one of the hind legs aborted,
									the length of the femur being but 19 and of the tibia 11 mm. as against 24 and 27
									mm. for the same segments of the opposite leg. The basal joint of the tarsus is
									less than one-third that of the corresponding normal one and only two additional
									joints are present.
								This is the only North American walking-stick abundant enough to be of economic
									importance. In feeding they eat the edges of a leaf, preferably those of an oak or
									wild cherry, usually straddling it with their legs, and in an hour will devour a
									piece an inch long by a third of an inch wide. Riley (1879) records
									that on occasions they are so numerous as to do much damage to oak, hickory,
									locust and other trees. In Yates Co., New York, he once found them very abundant
									in a woodland of 50 acres, which they had attacked in numbers two and four years
									previously. He states that: 
										"By the middle of August the bulk of the pests were going through their last
											moult, and by the end of autumn they had stripped most of the trees, showing,
											however, a decided preference for the black, red and rock-chestnut oaks, over
											the white oaks and hickories, which they affect but  little until after the first mentioned trees are stripped. The
											underbrush was also effectually cleaned of its foliage, and the insects hung
											from and clung to the bare twigs and branches in great clusters. They settled
											to roost on the witch-hazel, but did not defoliate it until the other trees
											mentioned were pretty bare. Sumach and thorn were also little affected, while
											peach and apple in an adjoining orchard were untouched. Whenever they had
											entirely stripped the trees and shrubs they moved in bodies to fresh pastures,
											crowding upon one another and covering the ground, the fence rails, and
											everything about them so that it was impossible for a person to enter the
											woods without being covered by them. The timber affected could be recognized
											by its seared and leafless appearance from a great distance, and upon entering
											the woods the ear was greeted by a peculiar seething noise, resulting from the
											motion of the innumerable jaws at work on the leaves. Their depredations first
											began to attract attention soon after wheat harvest, and were most noticeable
											in September. The injury to the trees done in 1874 and 1876 was manifest in
											the death of most of the black oaks, and, according to the owner's
											observations, trees die in three years after the first attack."
								
								The eggs, of which each female lays about 100, are a little less than 3 mm. in
									length, long oval in shape and of a polished black color with a whitish stripe on
									one side. They resemble a small, plump bean or seed of other leguminous plant.
									They are simply dropped loosely upon the ground from whatever height the female
									may happen to be, and says Riley: "During the latter part of autumn where the
									insects are common, one hears a constant pattering, not unlike drops of rain,
									which results from the abundant dropping of these eggs, which in places are so
									thick among and under the dead leaves that they may be scraped up in great
									quantities. The eggs remain upon the ground all through the winter and hatch for
									the most part during the month of May. Some of them, however, continue hatching
									much later, so that all through the summer and even into the fall, young
									individuals may be found. When first hatched the young measure 4.5 mm. and with
									their feelers and legs outstretched, near double that length. They are invariably,
									during early life, of a pale yellowish-green color. The insect changes very little
									in appearance from birth to maturity except so far as color is concerned, and
									moults but twice. Growth is rapid, averaging, under favorable circumstances, about
									six weeks from birth to adult. With age the green color gives way to various
									shades of gray and brown. In this way we find great correspondence with its
									surroundings. While the vegetation is green, the walking-stieks are green also;
									when the foliage turns in autumn, they change color correspondingly, and when the
									foliage is stripped they so closely resemble, both in appearance and color, the
									twigs upon which they rest--the habit of stretching out the front legs and feelers
									greatly enhancing the resemblance--that when they are few in number it is
									difficult to recognize them. A few green specimens, more particularly of the
									males, may always be found, even among the mature individuals."
								It will be noted that Riley, in the above account, which was the first one
									attempting to give in detail the life history of D.  femorata, states that the young "moult but
									twice." Our knowledge of the life history of other Orthoptera would tend to show
									that this was an error and Severin has proven it to be so by rearing 100 examples
									of the species under conditions as normal as possible. He states (1911) that "23
									per cent. moulted four times, 76 per cent. five times and only one per cent. six
									times." He adds that since the insect usually eats parts, or all of its cast-off
									skin it is possible that Riley overlooked some of the moults on this account. He
									also states that those specimens "which moulted four times reached sexual maturity
									on an average in 50 days, while those which moulted five times required 57.5 days,
									on an average before beginning the egg-laying period. * * * The eggs, after
									passing out of the vaginal orifice, may be retained for a number of hours within
									the peculiar 'external uterus' formed by the ovipositor."
								The thick-thighed walking-stick appears to be abundant in any certain locality
									only every other year. This is in part due to an increase of the insect's natural
									enemies on those years in which they are most abundant. These enemies are several
									species of true bugs (Heteroptera), crows and other birds. The main reason for the
									greater number of walking-sticks in alternate 'years is, however, thought to be
									due to the fact that the larger proportion of the eggs, especially those laid late
									in the autumn, take two years in hatching. If at any time the insect threatens to
									become injurious in woodlands, it can be held in check by burning the leaves on
									the ground in the winter season, thus destroying the hibernating eggs.

								
									53. DIAPHEROMERA VELIEI
										Walsh, 1864, 410. Prairie Walking-stick.

									Form, size and color much as in D. femorata, the middle
										femora of male not usually banded with gray as in that species. Head slightly
										more elongate. Male with seventh abdominal segment no longer than ninth, in femorata one-third longer; eighth segment two-thirds as long as
										seventh; cerci with a very slender, sharp curved spine on inner side near base,
										instead of a blunt tubercle as in femorata. Female with
										emargination at apex of ninth abdominal segment deep, broadly rounded, in femorata more shallow, triangular, with apex acute; subapical
										spine beneath the middle and hind femora often very small. Length of body, ♂,
										61, ♀, 74; of mesonotum, ♂, 14, ♀, 16; of metanotum, ♂ and ♀, 12; of hind
										femora, ♂ and ♀, 18 mm.
								

								Walsh's male type of this walking-stick was from Nebraska, and one of his female
									cotypes from Illinois. Its main distribution is west and southwest of the
									Mississippi, extending from Staples  and Pipestone,
									Minn., to Colorado, Texas and Mexico. East of that river it has been recorded from
									New York, New Jersey, Maryland, Virginia, Georgia and Illinois, but Caudell has
									shown (1918) that the majority of these records are probably based on individuals
									of his Manomera blatchleyi, a species very closely resembling
										D. veliei. The eastern limits of the range of veliei cannot, therefore, be given with certainty, but it has been taken
									by Somes at Memphis in the northeastern corner of Missouri and at Elmira in
									eastern Iowa, and therefore very probably occurs in Illinois and other states
									bordering the Mississippi. Somes (1916) states that veliei "averages smaller than
										femorata, especially in the males, and these also tend to
									brighter coloration, being often quite distinctly marked with two light colored
									lateral stripes, the pleura being light colored in life, though after drying the
									color is less distinct. It frequents tall grasses and low brush rather than trees
									and tall shrubs, being often found on such plants as Andropogon
										scoparius Mx., Lespedeza capitata Mx. and Salix humilis Marsh."

								
									54. DIAPHEROMERA CAROLINA
										Scudder, 1901, 188. Carolina Walking-stick.

									"Stouter than D. femorata, testaceo-castaneous,
										glistening; thorax with a rather broad median bronze-fuscous stripe, not
										reaching the median segment, and interrupted at posterior end of mesonotum; fore
										legs greenish, antennæ testaceous; thorax with excessively fine transverse
										striation. Mesothorax and metathorax (including median segment) of similar
										length. Seventh and eighth abdominal segments of subequal length, each faintly
										enlarging from base, the ninth a little shorter, apically inflated and
										subglobose, nearly half as broad again at apex as at base, the cerci much as in
											D. femorata, but stouter, more compressed and without basal
										tooth. Length of body, ♂, 67; head, 3; mesothorax, 13.5; fore femora, 20.5; hind
										femora, 19.5 mm." (Scudder.)
								

								The above is the original description of the unique male type of this well marked
									Phasmid which was collected in North Carolina by Morrison. An examination. of it
									at Cambridge shows that it has the cerci rather strongly incurved and flattened,
									being fully twice as thick vertically as horizontally, with the apical half
									subspatulate within; ninth segment of abdomen globose, scarcely longer than wide;
									seventh and eighth segments subequal, each slightly broader than long and a little
									shorter than the ninth. The only specimen known, other than the type, is a male
									taken by Mrs. A. T. Slosson at Lake Toxaway, N. C., and now in the Davis
									collection. It agrees fully with Scudder's description as emended above and there
									can be no doubt of its specific standing. The shining dark dorsal stripe, narrow
									on pronotum and much wider  on meso- and metanotum,
									is a striking character. The sides of the seventh and eighth abdominal segments
									also bear a curved black stripe, and the subapical spines of under surface of
									middle and hind femora are shining black.
							

							
								II. MANOMERA
									Rehn & Hebard, 1907, 283. (Gr., "thin" +  "thighs.")

								Very closely allied to Diapheromera. Head more slender, smooth,
									swollen in front, twice or more as long as broad, attached horizontally to the
									thorax; antennæ about two and a half times as long as the front femora; middle
									femora armed beneath with a slender subapical spine, hind femora unarmed; cerci of
									male stout, cylindrical, pubescent, decurved and incurved, sometimes crossing near
									middle and armed on the inner side at base with a spine or tubercle (Fig. 54, c) ; cerci of female slender, lanceolate, about as long as the
									ninth abdominal segment (Fig. 54, d.).
								
									Fig. 56. Apical portions of abdomen of males of Manomera. a, M.
											tenuescens; b. M. brachypyga. X 3. (After R. & H.)
								
								This genus is characterized very briefly by its authors thus: "From Diapheromera, Manomera can be separated in the male by the slender head,
									absence of caudal femoral spines, uninflated median femora and more elongate
									abdominal appendages." Now the middle femora of the male of M.
										blatchleyi are distinctly inflated, and the cerci of the male of no species
									of Manomera are more elongate than those of D.
										femorata, while the long female cerci are paralleled in that sex of D. veliei. This leaves only the more slender head and the absencse
									of spines on hind femora as the valid characters separating the two genera. Since
									these femoral spines are often absent in the females of Diapheromera it will be readily seen that Manomera has a
									very precarious standing. The species at present ascribed to the genus may be
									separated as follows:

								
									KEY TO THE SPECIES OF THE GENUS MANOMERA.

									a. Middle femora of male not or scarcely thicker than the hind ones;
										head slender, more than twice as long as broad.
									b. Seventh, eighth and ninth abdominal segments of male together
										one-half longer than sixth; ninth segment cylindrical, distinctly longer than
										wide, male, longer than prothorax, female; cerci of  male with a slender sharp tooth at base. (Fig. 56, a.) 55. TENUESCENS.
									bb. Seventh, eighth and ninth abdominal segments of male together no
										longer than the sixth; ninth segment but slightly longer than wide, enlarged at
										apex, male, equal in length to prothorax, female; cerci of male with a swollen,
										blunt, oblique basal tooth. (Fig. 56, b.) 56.
												BRACHYPYGA.
									aa. Middle femora of male distinctly thicker than the hind ones; head
										shorter, stouter, about twice as long as broad; cerci with a blunt tooth at
										base. (Fig. 54, c.) 57. BLATCHLEYI.
								

								
									55. MANOMERA TENUESCENS
										(Scudder), 1900, 95. Slender-bodied Walking-stick.

									Male very slender, elongate; female much stouter and longer. Male brown,
										female green above, both brownish-yellow beneath; sides of male usually with a
										fuscous stripe, bordered below with yellow, the legs in part greenish. Head
										slender, one-third longer than pronotum. Male with seventh and ninth abdominal
										segments subequal in length, each slightly longer than the eighth and about
										one-half as long as sixth; subgenital operculum slender, strongly spatulate,
										reaching the tip of the eighth segment. Female with ninth segment slightly
										longer than seventh, its apex truncate; cerci very slender, strongly tapering,
										as long as the ninth segment, their margins minutely serrate. Length of body, ♂,
										63--67, ♀, 85--110; of head, ♂, 3.2--3.5, ♀, 3.5--5.5; of mesothorax, ♂, 16--17,
										♀, 19-24; of metathorax, ♂, 12--13, ♀, 14.5--19.5; of hind femora, ♂, 18--20, ♀,
										24--26 mm.
								

								A Southern species whose known range is from Selma and Winter Park, North
									Carolina to Southern Florida. Numerous nymphs have been taken about Dunedin in
									February and March. They are pale grass-green and were swept from huckleberry and
									other low shrubs in open pine woods. Scudder's types were from Cedar Keys and
									Capron, Fla., and it has been recorded from numerous localities from Jacksonville
									and Live Oak in the north, to Homestead and Punta Gorda in the south. Adults are
									found from April to November on wire grass, saw palmetto and other undergrowth in
									open pine woods, rarely on vegetation in low, damp places. Manomera
										orthostylus
									Caudell (1913, 612) has been shown by R. & H. (1916,
										125) to be a synonym of M. tenuescens, having been
									based on a male in the instar preceding maturity, the cerci of the male in the
									nymph stages being straight, pilose and delicate in structure.

								
									56. MANOMERA BRACHYPYGA
										Rehn & Hebard, 1914c, 384. Short-rumped Walking-stick.

									Very similar to M. tenuescens agreeing in general form,
										color and structure, but differing in the much shorter seventh, eighth and ninth
											 abdominal segments and the form of the apex of
										the male abdomen, as described in the key and shown in Fig. 56. The female
										differs from that sex of tenuescens in having the sixth dorsal
										segment considerably longer than the seventh and eighth, the ninth segment equal
										in length to thorax and the subgenital plate rounded or subtruncate, with caudal
										margin very little produced. Length of body, ♂, 69.6--88.5, ♀, 92.6; of
										mesothorax, ♂, 15.8--21.4, ♀, 21; of hind femora, ♂, 20--25.3, ♀, 23.8
										mm.
								

								Originally described from Homestead and Detroit, Florida, July 10--12; San Pablo,
									Aug. 13, and Miami (female and 11 nymphs), March 28. Since recorded from Marco,
									LaBelle, La Grange and Charlotte Harbor, Fla. Like M.
									tenuescens, it occurs mainly on the undergrowth of pine woods. Davis
										(1914) states that at La Grange, Sept. 9--12, with the aid of a lantern
									he found both M. tenuescens and brachypyga at
									night, when they were active and walking about on the low vegetation in the pine
									woods.

								
									57. MANOMERA BLATCHLEYI
										(Caudell), 1905c, 212. Blatchley's Walking-stick.

									Form shorter and proportionally slightly stouter than in tenuescens. Color the same as that of D. veliei the
										males usually somewhat darker than those of that species and with a pale lateral
										stripe extending back to hind femora. Head subcylindrical, feebly enlarged in
										front. Pronotum narrower and but slightly shorter than head. Length of mesonotum
										four-fifths that of metanotum and median segment combined. Seventh and eighth
										abdominal segments of male subequal in length, each slightly shorter than ninth,
										the latter in female feebly and broadly emarginate, the supra-anal plate small,
										triangular, carinate above. Cerci of male cylindrical, scarcely at all tapering,
										decurved and incurved as in D. femorata, the subbasal tooth on
										the inner margin very short, blunt; cerci of female slender, straight, tapering,
										as long as the ninth segment (Fig. 54, d.) Legs stouter
										proportionally than those of tenuescens; middle femora of male
										very finely serrate beneath and armed near apex with a stout, blunt, nearly
										horizontal spine; those of female slender, the spine short, straight. Length of
										body, ♂, 58, ♀, 67; of head, ♂, 3, ♀, 4; of mesonotum, ♂, 13, ♀, 15--16; of
										metanotum, ♂ and ♀, 12; of hind femora, ♂, 20, ♀, 18--20; of cerci, ♀, 3.7
										mm.
								

								The types of this walking-stick in the U. S. National Museum were taken by me
									near Bass Lake, Starke Co., Ind., Aug. 20, 1902, and no additional specimens have
									since been personally collected. It doubtless occurs, however, throughout the
									northern half, perhaps over the entire State. A female is at hand from Cedar
									Point, Ohio, and Kostir (1914, 371) states that numerous females but
									no males were taken at that place. Hart (1907, 259), recorded it as
									occurring on rank prairie vegetation throughout Illinois, and also from Geneva,
									Wis. Gerhard has sent me a male and two females 
									taken at Argo, Ill., July 27, and has collected others at Palos Park and Fourth
									Lake, Ill. Somes (1916) records M. blatchleyi from Iowa and
									Missouri, the sexes occurring in about equal numbers. Elsewhere the males seem to
									have been very scarce.
								As noted above under D. veliei, many if not all the eastern
									records of that species probably refer to M. blatchleyi, the
									females especially of the two forms being very difficult of separation. Davis
									(Ms.) states that he now considers the species occurring about New York City, and
									formerly thought to be D. veliei, as M.
										blatchleyi, but that no males have as yet been taken on either Long or
									Staten Islands, although the females are fairly common on golden-rod, asters and
									associated plants. Morse (1919, 16) records an adult female and nymph
									of blatchleyi from Greenwich, Conn. The known range of blatchleyi therefore extends from Kansas and Oklahoma to Virginia
									and Connecticut.
								Under the generic heading I have referred to the close relationship between the
									genera Diapheromera and Manomiera. The species
										blatchleyi seems to be a sort of connecting link between the
									two. The rather short head and thick middle thighs of male would refer it to the
									former and the unarmed hind femora to the latter genus.
							

							
								III. HETERONEMIA
									>Gray, 1835, 13. (Gr., "different" + "race.")

								Head of male unarmed, of female with two longitudinal ridges between the eyes;
									first abdominal segment longer than wide; hind femora of female subequal in length
									to that of the four basal abdominal segments combined, of male much longer than
									those segments; all the femora unarmed; cerci of male of similar shape and
									proportions as those of Diapheromera.
								Two species of this genus were described by Brunner (1907, 336),
									both of which were in part from localities within the area covered by this paper.
										Caudell (1913, 613) states that they "are very probably synonyms of
									other species, but until the types are seen it is not deemed advisable to so place
									them." The females were separated by Brunner as follows:

								
									KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF HETERONEMIA.

									a. Second and third segments of abdomen scarcely longer than broad:
										cerci short. 58. LÆVISSIMUS.
									aa. Second and third segments of abdomen twice as long as broad; cerci
										long, lanceolate. 59. TEXANUS.
								



								

								
									58. HETERONEMIA LÆVISSIMUS
										Brunner 1907, 338. Smooth-backed Walking-stick.

									"Female.--Body wholly smooth. Head not longer than pronotum. Front femora
										equal to mesonotum. Second and third abdominal segments subequal, as long as
										wide. Anal segment semicylindrical, emarginate. Cerci short, terete; operculum
										obtuse; ovipositor free. Length of body, 60; of mesonotum, 15; of metanotum,
										12.5; of front femora, 15; of hind femora, 14 mm. (Brunner.)
								

								Brunner's types of this species were from St. Louis and "Lacus, Ontario." Caudell
									suggests that the type may have been a young female of Diapheromera
										femorata.

								
									59. HETERONEMIA TEXANUS
										Brunner, 1907, 333. Texas Walking-stick.

									"Head elongate, longer than pronotum. Femora short, the middle ones
										subincrassate, scarcely longer than metanotum. Anal segment of male strongly
										fornicate. Cerci curved. Ninth ventral segment very short. Subgenital plate
										large, hood-shaped. Abdomen of female smooth. Cerci long, terete, acuminate.
										Operculum lanceolate, acuminate, not reaching the tip of ninth segment. Length
										of body, ♂, 4f7, ♀, 65--84; of mesonotum, ♂, 10, ♀, 14--18; of front femora, ♂,
										12, ♀, 17; of hind femora, ♀, 15--20.5 mm." (Brunner.)
								

								This species was described from Texas and New York.
							

							
								IV. MEGAPHASMA
									Caudell, 1903a, 878. (Gr., "large" + 
									"apparition.")

								Walking-sticks of very large size having the head short, smooth, rounded,
									subvertical; antennæ more than twice as long as front femora; pronotum about
									one-fourth the length of mesonotum and with a deep median transverse impression;
									meso- and metanotum subequal in length, both with a fine median carina; middle and
									hind femora swollen in both sexes, the middle ones thicker than hind ones in male,
									both armed with a prominent subapical spine beneath. Cerci stout, those of male
									somewhat spatulate, decurved, their tips meeting but not crossing; of female less
									than half the length of last abdominal segment. The type of the genus and only
									known species is

								
									60. MEGAPHASMA DENTRICUS
										(Stål), 1875, 76. Giant Walking-stick.

									Form elongate, robust as compared with that of preceding species; the female
										much the more so. Brownish-yellow or fuscous with legs paler, body and legs of
										male often in part green, sometimes maculate or banded with gray. Pronotum about
										as long as head, with broad, deep median transverse impression and a much finer
										longitudinal one. Seventh and  eighth abdominal
										segments subequal in length, each shorter than ninth. Front legs much longer and
										more slender than either of the other pairs; middle and hind femora in both
										sexes thick, 4-sided, broadest beneath, their surface rough, the caring
										granulate or finely dentate, the median line below finely toothed in male, more
										strongly so in female. Length of body, ♂, 117, ♀, 123--150; of pronotum, ♂ and
										♀, 5.5; of mesonotum, ♂, 22, ♀, 24; of front femora, ♂, 29, ♀, 27; of hind
										femora, ♂, 26, ♀, 23 mm.
								

								Stål's type of this giant walking-stick was a female from Opelousas, La. It has
									since been recorded from Alabama, Iowa, Missouri, Texas and New Mexico, and
									Caudell (Ms.) states that a female taken on a porch near Louisville, Ky., in 1911
									is now in the U. S. National Museum. Somes (1916) states that it is
									not uncommon in the Ozark region of Missouri and has been taken by him as far
									north as Hamburg and Clarinda, Iowa. It is found, he says, "on shrubs and trees
									and does not apparently differ greatly in habits from the well-known Diapheromera femorata." Near Victoria, Texas, M.
										dentricus is said to be rather common on wild grape vines in the wooded
									bottom lands.
								This is the largest Phasmid known from the United States, a female in the
									Philadelphia collection measuring 150 mm. in length. In size it is approached,
									however, by the females of Aplopus mayeri, one of which, in the
									Davis collection, measures 118 mm., while R. & H. record others as reaching a
									length of 127.5 mm. excluding the oviscapt.
							
						

						
							Subfamily II. PHIBALOSOMINÆ.

							This subfamily is represented in extreme southern Florida by a single species
								belonging to the following genus:

							
								I. APLOPUS
									Gray, 1835, 34. (Gr., "single" + "foot.")

								Elongate, robust species having the head short, subvertical, armed above with two
									short unequal horns or spines, the right one the larger; antennæ rather stout,
									setaceous, slightly more than half the length of body, male, one-fourth shorter,
									female; mesonotum more than twice as long as metanotum; tegmina and wings present
									in the form of short oval or oblong pads; legs slender, not very elongate; middle
									and hind femora armed beneath with several short, sharp spines and terminating at
									knees in a pair of similar spines.
								Fifteen species of the genus were recognized by Kirby (1904, 363),
									all of them from the West Indies, Central and South America. The following
									species has been since described:


								

								
									61. APLOPUS MAYERI
										Caudell, 1905b, 83. Mayer's Walking-stick.

									Male greenish-yellow, the tegmina and wings darker; female fuscous-brown,
										the head, pronotum, sides of metanotum and femora and terminal abdominal
										segments more or less blotched with chalky white; males with sides of tegmina
										and abdominal segments usually marked lengthwise with white. Pronotum
										subquadrate, deeply impressed transversely, the front portion with a faint
										longitudinal impression and a pair of short black-tipped spines, hind one with a
										pair of similar but smaller spines in female mesonotum of male with eight or
										ten, of female with 20 or more, scattered similar spines. Tegmina very short,
										oval, strongly veined, their tips obliquely rounded; wings oblong, projecting 2
										or 3 mm. beyond the tegmina. Front legs more slender, and but slightly longer
										than middle ones, their femora with basal third strongly narrowed and more or
										less curved; middle and hind femora of female with their dorsal carinae crested
										near apex. Apex of male abdomen moderately enlarged, the seventh and eighth
										segments subequal; nirith slightly shorter, subquadrate; the seventh nearly as
										long as the next two in female. Cerci of male stout, cylindrical, blunt,
										decurved, a little shorter than the ninth segment. Length of body, ♂, 83--93, ♀,
										114--127; of antennæ, ♂, 53, ♀, 45; of mesonotum, ♂, 20, ♀, 26--28; of
										metanotum, ♂, 6, ♀, 8; of tegmina, ♂, 7, ♀, 8.5; of front femora, ♂ and ♀, 20;
										of hind femora, ♂, 21, ♀, 22 mm.
								

								This is the only winged Phasmid known from the United States. The first specimens
									were taken at Loggerhead Key, Dry Tortugas, Fla., and were recorded, described and
									figured by Caudell (1904) as Haplopus evadne
									Westwood, a Santo Domingo species. A number of additional specimens, taken later
									on the same island by Dr. A. G. Mayer, were afterward submitted to the same
									authority, who concluded that his first identification was wrong, and described
									them (loc. cit.) under the name they now bear. In 1912, R. & H. visited
									Loggerhead Key and secured a number of specimens, finding them only on bushes of
									the bay cedar, Suriana maritime L. They record (1914c, 387) the
									species also from Bird Key and Garden Keys of the Tortugas groups, and from Key
									West and Long Key, July 3--13. It is also known from Key Largo and Everglade,
									Fla., a specimen from the latter point, taken by Davis, being the only one known
									from the mainland of the State. The large size and bizarre appearance of this
									Phasmid suggest its tropical origin, and it is very probable that in time it will
									be found to inhabit some of the adjacent West India Islands, while in Florida it
									will probably be found only in the subtropical area of the extreme southern
									portion.
							
						

						
							Subfamily III. ANISOMORPHINÆ.

							Rather short, robust species having the antennæ more than twice as long as front
								femora; mesonotum not more than three  times as long
								as pronotum; intermediary segment invisible; coxæ visible from above; tibiæ deeply
								and widely notched at apex below, thus forming a "sunken areola" which receives the
								base of tarsi when the latter are reflexed. To this subfamily, as at present
								restricted, belongs in our fauna only the single genus:

							
								I. ANISOMORPHA
									Gray, 1835, 18. (Gr., "unequal" + "form.")

								Body broad and stout, especially so in female; head horizontally attached to the
									thorax, unarmed, not more than one and a half times as long as broad. Pronotum
									furnished with distinct odoriferous glands; mesonotum nearly one-fourth longer
									than metanotum; legs unarmed, stout, thick, unequal, the middle pair the shortest;
									abdominal segments, especially those of female, subquadrate or transverse, the
									seventh and ninth subequal in length; cerci of both sexes short, stout,
									cylindrical, pubescent.
								Five species are known, all from the Western Continent, two of them occurring in
									our territory. When disturbed or picked up, they have the power of exuding from
									glands beneath the prothorax a vapor from the male and a white milky fluid from
									the female. This is spurted out through a pore near the front angles of the
									pronotum and possesses a peculiar, though somewhat pleasing odor, which has been
									likened to that of the common everlasting, Gnaphalium
										obtusifolium L. The secretion is doubtless used as a defense against
									certain enemies, being probably very distasteful, and perhaps harmful, to birds
									and rapacious insects. Scudder (1876g) has noted this secretion, and
									concludes that the Phasmidæ with their slender form and sluggish movements have
									especial need of such a weapon as these glands furnish.

								
									KEY TO NORTH AMERICAN SPECIES OF ANISOMORPHA.

									a. Larger, male averaging 45, female about 65 mm. in length; black
										dorsal and lateral stripes broad, conspicuous; head distinctly longer than
										broad. 62. BUPRESTOIDES.
									aa. Smaller, male averaging not more than 35, female about 55 mm.;
										dorsal and lateral dark stripes narrow, inconspicuous; head but slightly longer
										than broad. 63. FERRUGINEA.
								

								
									62. ANISOMORPHA BUPRESTOIDES
										(Stoll), 1813, 68. Larger Striped Walking-stick.

									Male brownish-yellow, female usually more or less fuscous, both with a broad
										blackish stripe extending along the back from front of head to tip of abdomen,
										and another each side; legs dark brown, often paler in male. Head somewhat
										swollen in front, about one-third longer than broad; antennæ about three times
										as long as front femora. Pronotum nearly twice  as
										long as broad, marked lengthwise and crosswise by a feeble median impressed
										line, and bearing each side near the front angle a circular pore, connected with
										a hidden gland. Metanotum usually furnished with several rounded black granules
										along the sides of its front half. Seventh segment of female bearing beneath an
										elongate scoop-shaped process which conceals the genital organs; male with a
										similar shorter triangular process. Cerci of male deflexed strongly downward; of
										female projected horizontally backward and extending slightly beyond the apex of
										ninth segment. Length of body, ♂, 39--47, ♀, 61--77; of head, ♂, 3.5--4, ♀, 6;
										of pronotum, ♂, 3.5--4, ♀, 6--6.5; of mesonotum, ♂, 7--9, ♀, 12--16; of
										metanotum, ♂, 6--7.5, ♀, 10--12; of hind femora, ♂, 9.5--10, ♀, 14--17.5
										mm.
								

								Gainesville, Sanford, Dunedin, Cape Sable and Key West, Fla., Nov. 4--March 29
										(W. S. B.) ; several pairs taken, usually in copulation, the
									female stretched straight out along the stems of weeds or coarse grasses. At
									Dunedin one pair was taken December 12 on Hog Island, three miles across from the
									mainland. Recorded from numerous localities between Jacksonville and Pensacola on
									the north and Miami and Key West. It occurs more abundantly in moist situations,
									often beneath the loose bark of pine logs and stumps or between or beneath boards.
									From December to April about Dunedin, the brownish-gray nymphs are frequently
									swept from dwarf huckleberry and other undergrowth in open pine woods.
								Davis (1914) states that: "This fat and lubberly insect, which is
									always ready to squirt a charge of acrid, condensed-milk-like fluid at the
									collector, was in evidence at all the places visited. While it has been my
									experience in various parts of Florida to find more nymphs of this species in the
									spring, yet adults may be found at any season, and each female usually has
									attached to herself one of the diminutive males. At night the insects become much
									more active."
								This stout-bodied walking-stick, often called the "musk-mare," is found only in
									the southern states, ranging from South Carolina through Georgia and Florida, and
									west at least to Agricultural College, Miss., two specimens from that place having
									been given me by the late Dr. L. M. Underwood.

								
									63. ANISOMORPHA FERRUGINEA
										(Beauvois), 1805, 167. Lesser Striped Walking-stick.

									Fuscous or ferruginous, with inconspicuous, narrow, dusky, dorsal and
										lateral stripes; these in the female less distinct, often obsolete on a portion
										of the abdomen; antennæ dull reddish-brown; under side of body dull clay  yellow, brownish when dried; legs reddish-brown,
										head but little longer than broad. Tubercles on sides of mesonotum more
										distinct. Body of female six to six and a half times longer than broad; of male,
										about twelve times as long as broad. Ninth segment of male abdomen much more
										deeply notched at apex than in buprestoides. Length of body,
										♂, 30--36, ♀, 50--56; of head, ♂, 3, ♀, 5.5; of antennæ, ♂, 22, ♀, 34; of
										mesonotum, ♂, 5--6, ♀, 9--10; of metanotum, ♂, 4--5, ♀, 8--9.5; of hind femora,
										♂, 9, ♀, 12 mm. (Fig. 57.)
								
								
									Fig. 57. Female. Natural size. (After Caudell.)
								

								This walking-stick has been taken in Indiana only near Wyandotte, Crawford Co.,
									Grand Chain, Posey Co., and Medora, Jackson Co., having been found in large
									numbers in all three localities. The first ones noted were in Crawford Co. on June
									28, 1902, when the young about an inch and a half long were found beneath loose
									flakes of bark on oak and other trees. In the first week in September I again
									visited the locality and found scores of pairs of them, all mating, beneath the
									loose bark of old oak snags and stumps. A half dozen or more pairs were often
									found within an area of a foot or two square, the large, heavy bodied female
									bearing her diminutive liege lord upon her back. None of the specimens noted were
									feeding, though they probably live upon the leaves of oak and other trees. The
									species was later found in numbers in Posey and Jackson Counties, and probably
									occurs in most of the counties bordering the Ohio River. It is but one of many
									forms of insect and plant life which have their most northern habitat in the
									southern third of Indiana.
								The range of A. ferruginea is given by R. & H. (1916,
										127) as extending from "just north of the Ohio River, south over the
									Mississippi to the Gulf States, west to extreme southeastern Nebraska and eastward
									through the Appalachians in Virginia and in the high portions of the Carolinas and
									Georgia." It is known from Union Co., Ill., and a specimen in the U. S. National
									Museum collection is from Arcadia, La. Caudell's Florida record (1903a) is now
									known to have been based on a specimen of buprestoides.
							
						
					
				


				

				
					Suborder IV. SALTATORIA. THE LEAPING ORTHOPTERA.

					Orthoptera of very diverse appearance but all agreeing in having the head vertical;
						face often oblique; hind femora very much stouter, or very much longer, or both stouter
						and longer than the middle ones; tibibæ armed with numerous spines; stridulating organs
						usually present; ovipositor, with few exceptions, free and exserted.
					The name Saltatoria is derived from the Latin saltator, "a dancer,"
						and was first applied by Latreille (1817) to those Orthoptera having the
						hind legs fitted for leaping. Belonging to this class or suborder are four families
						which comprise the great majority of our best known Orthoptera. They are the true
						"hoppers" or leapers of the order; their hind limbs, in the course of ages, having
						become so modified as to be adapted in the highest degree to the life which they lead.
						Possessing, also, in many instances, ample organs of flight, which enable them when
						disturbed to move rapidly to a distance, the males have evolved in connection therewith
						organs of sound, by which they may call the members of the opposite sex to them. Were it
						not for these calling organs the two sexes would, during their varied movements, often
						be widely separated, and perhaps be unable to locate one another after settling in a new
						position. The males alone possess these organs of sound, and they only when wings are
						present. All the wingless forms lack also "auditory organs" or ears, since these would
						be useless unless, some means of producing sound were present.

					
						KEY TO THE FAMILIES OF SALTATORIA.

						a. Antennæ much shorter than body, variable in form; ocelli three; tarsi
							usually 3-jointed; calling organs of male, when present, (except in Oedipodinæ)
							situated on the hind femora and lower border of tegmina; organs of hearing, when
							present, located on basal segment of abdomen; ovipositor composed of two pairs of
							short, horny, more or less curved plates, whose tips diverge.
						b. Pronotum narrowed behind and prolonged backward to or beyond the tip of
							abdomen; tegmina represented by small oval lobes or scales on the sides of the body
							and covering only the bases of the wings; tarsi of fore and middle legs 2-jointed;
							claws of tarsi without a pad (arolium) between them; size very small, length of female
							not over 17 mm. Family V. TETRIGIDÆ, p.
							149.
						bb. Pronotum never extending over the abdomen; tegmina usually well developed
							and in repose covering wholly or in great part  the
							inner wings, sometimes much abbreviated or even wanting; all the tarsi 3-jointed;
							arolia present; size larger, length of female rarely less than 20 mm.Family VI. ACRIDIDÆ, p. 187.
						aa. Antennæ much longer than the body, bristle-shaped, delicately tapering;
							ocelli often wanting; tarsi 3- or 4-jointed; calling organs of male, when present,
							situated on the anal or dorsal field of the tegmina; organs of hearing, when present,
							located near the base of the fore tibiæ, rarely on the prosternum; ovipositor (except
							in certain crickets) an elongated, horny blade or needle, its parts compact.
						c. Tarsi 4-jointed; ocelli generally wanting; tegmina with sides s sloping,
							the calling organ of male, when present, located on their basal half, and limited to
							the anal area; ovipositor, when ex-exserted, forming a strongly compressed, generally
							sword-shaped blade, the tip not expanded. Family VII. TETTIGONIIDÆ, p. 453.
						cc. Tarsi 3-jointed 28;
							ocelli variable; tegmina flat above, the sides bent abruptly downward, the calling
							organ of male, when present, extending across both their anal and median areas;
							ovipositor, when exserted, forming a nearly cylindrical straight or upcurved needle,
							the tip often enlarged. Family VIII. GRYLLIDÆ, p.
								638.
					

					
						Family V. TETRIGIDÆ. (ACRYDIIDÆ.) THE
								GROUSE OR PYGMY LOCUSTS.

						The members of this family29
							are our smallest locusts and among the smallest of Orthoptera. They are easily known
							from all other Saltatoria by having the pronotum prolonged and tapering backward to
							such an extent that it reaches to or beyond the tip of abdomen; tegmina rudimentary,
							represented only by small oval lobes or scales, placed on the sides of the body and
							usually covering only a small portion of the base of wings; the latter usually present
							and well developed, especially in their anal area, though both they and tegmina in a
							few species wanting; prosternum prolonged in front by a half circular "chin piece"
							which envelopes the maxillæ and other mouth parts like a muffler; arolia absent. The
							males of most species are much narrower 28Rarely in Tridactylinæ one- or two-jointed or in part
								wanting. The antennæ in that subfamily and the Gryllotalpinæ are shorter than the
								body.
							29The characters
								separating the grouse locusts from the larger short-horned locusts (Acrididæ) are so
								fixed and striking that I have raised the former to family rank. Not only are the
								external differential characters between the two families far greater than those
								separating any two families of Coleoptera, but they present in their spermatogenesis
								a distinction of family rank. In the subfamilies Tryxalinæ and Oedipodinæ the
								spermatogenial number of chromosomes is twenty-three, while in the Tetrigidæ,
								according to Robertson (Journ. Morph. XXVI, No. 1) there are fourteen
								in the female and thirteen in the male. Harmon (Biol. Bull. XXIX, No.
									4) also found only thirteen in Paratettix. This great
								reduction in the number of chromosomes is additional evidence in support of their
								being ranked as a family. I have not followed the rule of basing the family name on
								the oldest generic one included as it would then be too similar to Acrididæ. The
								student can use Acrydiidæ instead of Tetrigidæ if he so desire.
							 bodied than the females and have the subgenital plate
							conical or triangular, and supra-anal plate lanceolate or triangular; cerci very
							small, cylindrical or conical. The valves of the ovipositor are armed with small
							rounded teeth on their outer edges, and their extremities are sharply divergent.
						
							Fig. 58. Side view of a grouse locust giving the names of the different external
								parts. The face is shown at the right, the pronotum and head below. (After Han-
								cock.)
						
						In addition to the characters mentioned the Tetrigidæ have the eyes conspicuous,
							globular or subelliptic; ocelli three, arranged in the form of a triangle, the median
							or apical one being in the lower portion of the groove of frontal costa; antennæ 12-
							to 22-jointed, usually cylindrical or filiform; face with a frontal costa extending
							down its middle, this often more or less forked, its branches sometimes widely
							divergent; head above bounded in front by the fastigium, the latter usually with a
							transverse carina; vertex behind the fastigium and between the eyes, varying much in
							form and size and usually divided by a lengthwise median carina; upper or dorsal
							surface of pronotum extremely variable in form and rugosity, lateral lobes with hind
							border more or less sinuate, usually with two distinct notches or sinuses, the
							uppermost one, known as the tegminal or superior sinus, enclosing the base of tegmina,
							the lowermost or inferior sinus usually much the wider, the median lobe between them
							variable in form, as is also the lower posterior lobe or angle, beneath the inferior
							sinus; legs more or less compressed; hind femora much enlarged; hind tibiæ with
							numerous spines; fore and middle tarsi with only two visible segments, the terminal
							one three or four times as long as the  basal; hind
							tarsi with three segments, the first usually longer than third, the second very short.
							These various external parts of a grouse locust are excellently shown in the
							accompanying figure from Hancock. The pronotum varies much in length and color, even
							in the adults of the same species, and much of the earlier synonymy is due to a
							failure to recognize the long and short pronotal forms or the color variations as
							belonging to the same species. During the last moult the tegmina, which in the earlier
							stages are hidden beneath the pronotum, take their place at the side of the body in
							the superior posterior sinus and the wings become folded and extended beneath the
							pronotal process.
						In Indiana these little Orthoptera are the only locusts which pass the winter in the
							imago or mature stage. On the approach of winter they hide beneath chunk, chips,
							rubbish, the loose bark of logs, or beneath the bottom rails of old fences. Sometimes
							a warm sunny day in mid-winter tempts them forth in numbers, and on such occasions,
							the earth seems to swarm with them as they leap before the intruder, their hard bodies
							striking the dead leaves with a sound similar to that produced by falling hail. If the
							winter is an open one, with alternate periods of thawing and freezing, many of them
							doubtless perish. On the first warm days of spring they can be collected by hundreds
							from any grass-covered hillside having a sunny southern exposure, or from sandy places
							along the margins of lakes and streams.
						Allard (1916) has aptly described their habits thus: "Smallest of all
							the Acridiidæ and among the most interesting are the odd-shaped grouse-locusts. These
							tiny creatures, which leap almost as actively as fleas, are exceedingly difficult to
							discern in their natural environment of earth and dead vegetation. As one sweeps a net
							over the surface of the dry leaves in the woods there is an audible rustling as the
							tiny creatures hop about very much like tiny toads. At rest, their odd little bodies
							and sombre hues of grays, yellows and browns assimilate them perfectly with the
							mottled carpet of dried leaves, grasses, pebbles, bits of dead bark and woods among
							which they dwell."
						Hancock (1902) has also written entertainingly of their habits as
							follows:
						
							"The jump of the grouse locust is peculiar in that it is quick and inconspicuous
								and in this that it alights almost invariably on the ground The young of the larger
								Orthoptera usually alight on grass or stems of plants, dodging behind them for
								protection. The remarkable color of these little Tetrigians, harmonizing in every
								instance with the soil, makes  it sometimes difficult
								to locate them. This protective resemblance is carried out to perfection, the little
								insects living on the soil scattered with debris faded out by the hot sun, and the
								lights and shadows, in whatever way they play, are copied exactly. No shade, color
								or arrangement of markings seems impossible of simulation, and every individual is a
								study in color harmony.
							
								Fig. 59. Showing variations in the color of the short form of a common grouse
									locust, Acrydium ornatum Say. (After Hancock.)
							
							"The grouse locusts feed upon the vegetable mold or decomposing soil sometimes
								mixed with algæ, or on the lichens, mosses, tender sprouting grasses, sedges,
								germinating seeds of plants and debris found in such situations. Particularly
								sought-after morsels are the various colored surface clays and the black muck,
								consisting of rich vegetable mold. They are ravenous eaters, as one might infer from
								the dietary list just mentioned, and the fecal excrement, on reaching the end of the
								abdominal appendages, is thrust away from the body by a rapid kick of the hind
								tibia.
							"In the middle of May (Illinois) the first eggs are laid in the ground, the female
								accomplishing this act by making a shallow burrow with her ovipositor. The young
								larvæ, hatched from this brood, mature by fall, passing the following winter in the
								adult state. The broods hatched in late June and early July are often immature by
								the time winter arrives, and we find them hibernating in the pupal state. Thus it is
								that the Tetrigidæ are about the earliest insects to be found in the spring,
								appearing as early as March. The time of incubation varies with the temperature, the
								early broods of Acrydium (Tettix) hatching in twenty-three days,
								but as the days become warmer this period is shortened to sixteen days. The number
								of eggs of Acrydium and Paratettix vary
								considerably, but there are more often ten, thirteen or sixteen in each burrow; in
									Tettigidea varying from twelve to twenty-six.
							"During the life of these little Tetrigians they are more or less constantly in
								danger of enemies among the arachnida, insecta, and some of the vertebrata. The
								larva of a red mite (Trombidian) is one of the most frequent
								sources of annoyance. Acting as a parasite the Trombidian larva clings on the body
								and attaches itself out of the reach of the victim. There it remains to sap the
								juices of the host's body. It is found on many species. Among insect pests, ants and
								bugs are sometimes deadly to them. In a wet ditch in June the writer found a number
								of small, dark-brown ants dragging along the ground a female Acrydium
									ornatum which had just been killed by them. When endeavoring to capture some
								grouse locusts at the same place my attention was drawn to a colony of these ants
									 acting in a panicky state of excitement, the cause
								of this being that they had darted upon the insect the author was pursuing, tumbling
								it over and biting it savagely about the neck. The little locust finally escaped by
								a vigorous jump.
							"According to P. R. Uhler, (1884)
								Galgulus oculatus, a true bug, is a serious enemy. 'This insect
								may often be seen,' says Uhler, 'in the month of May walking about between the
								stones on the low banks of brooks and streams, where Tettix and
									Batrichidea abound, watching an opportunity to seize one of
								these insects, and when the favorable moment arrives, leaping suddenly upon one of
								them, clasping it with tight embrace between the front femora and tibiæ and then
								sucking out its vital juices.' Toads. fishes and birds also feed upon them when
								opportunity offers."
						

						The Tetrigidæ are widely distributed over the earth, many of the tropical species
							having the pronotum strongly compressed and bearing a resemblance to the dried leaves
							among which they live on the ground, while some have it extremely rough, or even spiny
							to aid in imitating their natural surroundings. In his principal treatise on the group
							(1906) Hancock recognized 98 genera and 434 nominal species as known at that time. Of
							these 21 genera and 99 species had been previously (1902) described by him as
							inhabiting North and Central America, Mexico and the West Indies. While several valid
							species have since been described from this country, a number of those recognized by
							Hancock have been proven to be mere races or varieties of the older known species, so
							that in the present work only seven genera, 16 species and eight varieties are
							recognized as occurring in the Eastern United States and Canada. These represent but
							two of the nine sections or subfamilies of Hancock (1906).
						The principal literature treating especially the North American species of Tetrigidæ
							is as follows: Bolivar, 1887; Morse, 1894, 1894a, 1895, 1899,
								1900; Hancock, 1896, 1898, 1898a, 1899, 1900, 1902, 1906, 1909,
								1918; Rehn & Hebard, 1916; Hebard, 1919.

						
							KEY TO EASTERN SUBFAMILIES OF TETRIGIDÆ30
							a. Antennæ with 12 to 14 joints; front femora more or less compressed and
								carinate above; pronotum with dorsal front margin subtruncate (Fig. 2b) rarely (Nomotettix) angulate- produced forward. (Fig. 1d.) I. TETRIGINIÆ, p. 155.
							aa. Antennæ with 20 or 22 joints; front femora distinctly and broadly
								grooved or sulcate above; pronotum with front dorsal margin rounded or
								angulate-produced over the head (Fig. 5.) II. BATRACHIDINÆ, p. 179.
						

						30All Figures below 6 cited
							in this key, and on the succeeding pages treating of this family, refer to those of
							Plate II.




						

						
							PLATE II.

							Plate II.-Fig. 1. Nomotettix cristatus (Scudd.), side view of
								pronotum of short form; 1a, side view of same, long form; 1b, cross section; 1c, profile of head; 1d, head and front margin of pronotum from above. Fig. 2. Acrydium ornatum Say, combination figure to show from above outlines
								of pronotum and wings of both long and short forms; 2a. showing
								sinuses of hind margin of lateral lobe; 2b. head from above; 2c. profile of head. Fig. 3. Acrydium granulatum
								Kirby, head from above; 3a, profile of head. Fig. 4. Paratettix cucullatus (Burm.), head from above; 4a.
								profile of head. Fig. 5. Tettigidea lateralis parvipennis
								(Harris), head from above. (After Morse.)
						


						

						
							Subfamily I. TETRIGINÆ.

							In addition to the characters given in key the members of this subfamily differ
								from those of Batrachidinæ in having the body much more slender; ridges of frontal
								costa more or less divergent or forked above the ocellus; antennæ inserted opposite
								the lower border of eyes; pronotum more tapering, less tectiform, more often
								granulate, but usually less rugose, its median carina usually higher, often
								cristate; hind tarsi with first segment distinctly longer than third. Five genera
								are recognized as being represented in our territory.

							
								KEY TO EASTERN GENERA OF TETRIGINÆ.

								a. Vertex more or less produced forward beyond the front of eyes, viewed
									from above distinctly wider than one of them, its front margin angulate or
									rounded, not truncate (Figs. 2b, 3); dorsal surface of pronotum usually tectiform
									or sloping between the shoulders.
								b. Ridges of frontal costa but feebly forked; front dorsal margin of
									pronotum when truncate not advanced upon the head to the eyes (Figs. 2b, 3); front
									of vertex, viewed from the side, angulate or subrounded.
								c. Pronotum with its median carina raised in the form of a crest and more
									or less arched lengthwise, its dorsal front margin produced in an angle over the
									back of head (Figs. 1, 1d); tegminal or upper notch of lateral lobe of pronotum
									only about one-half as deep as the lower one; posterior process of pronotum
									usually much abbreviated (Fig. 1.) I. NOMOTETTIX, p.
									156.
								cc. Pronotum with median carina low, not arched, its dorsal front margin
									truncate or very obtuse-angulate (Figs. 2b, 3); hind margin of lateral lobes
									strongly bisinuate, the tegminal sinus usually nearly as deep as the lower one
									(Fig. 2a.) II. ACRYDIUM, p. 161.
								bb. Ridges of frontal costa with their lower halves widely divergent or
									forked; front dorsal margin of pronotum advanced upon the head to the eyes; vertex
									usually much wider than one of the eyes, its front, when viewed from the side,
									distinctly rounded. III. NEOTETTIX31, p. 171.
								aa. Vertex not at all or barely advanced beyond the eyes and usually
									narrower than one of them, its front margin truncate or nearly so; dorsal surface
									of pronotum convex between the shoulders, its front margin reaching the eyes,
									(Fig. 4.)
								d. Frontal costa, in profile, feebly but distinctly sinuate in front of
									eyes (Fig. 4a); vertex truncate, narrower than or subequal in width to one of the
									eyes (Fig. 4), its frontal carinulæ interrupted
							

							31After examing the type
								of Neotettix proavus R. & H. at Philadelphia and taking into
								consideration the fact that the long-winged form mentioned by Fox
									(1918) had the hind margin of pronotum hisinuate, I follow Hebard
									(1919) in making the genus Cavotettix
								Hancock (1918), a synonym of Neotettix.


							

							
								by the median carina but not reflexed backward at middle; antennæ 14-jointed,
									inserted distinctly below the eyes; pronotum granulose, rarely finely scabrous.
										IV. PARATETTIX, p. 175.
								dd. Frontal costa not at all sinuate; vertex subtruncate, in female
									distinctly wider than one of the eyes, its frontal carinulæ open in front on each
									side next to the median carina and curved or reflexed backward; antennæ
									13-jointed, inserted scarcely below the eyes; dorsal surface of pronotum
									distinctly rugose. V. APOTETTIX, p.
									178.
							

							
								I. NOMOTETTIX32
									Morse, 1894a, 150. (Gr., "pasture" + Tettix.)

								Small feebly compressed species, having the front of vertex rounded or slightly
									angulate and distinctly advanced in front of eyes, carinate, the occiput usually
									with a pair of minute tubercles behind the middle of eyes (Fig. 1d) ; antennæ
									short, filiform, with 12, rarely 13 segments; frontal costa deeply sulcate,
									usually sinuate opposite middle of eyes, its ridges acute, subparallel; pronotum
									as described in key, its lateral lobes bisinuate behind, the tegminal sinus
									shallow, the lower one much deeper; tegmina narrow, their tips obtuse; hind femora
									large, swollen, basal joint of hind tarsi longer than the next two united.
								Nine or ten nominal species of this genus have been described from the Eastern
									United States and Canada, but Rehn & Hebard (1916, 127) have
									stated that a study of 458 specimens "offers convincing proof that but one species
									of Nomotettix exists in this portion of North America.33 This species is divided
									into five geographic races which are typical over certain areas but which
									intergrade so gradually that series of specimens from numerous localities between
									those where the typical forms are found, show intermediates of every degree."
									Typical examples of all of these so-called races are before me and a careful study
									of them, with the keys and descriptions of both Hancock and R. & H., show that
									they possess no fixed characters by which they can be satisfactorily separated by
									any key. I regard one of them, arcuatus, as only an intermediate
									or intergrading form and three of the others as only geographic forms or races of
									the first named species, but retain their names as trinomials in order that the
									student, if he so desires, may use the racial name in the placing of his
									specimens.

								32The suffix "tettix"
									used as a part of most of the generic names in this family, is the Greek for
									"grasshopper."
								33They evidently did
									not take into consideration N. parvus
									Morse (1895, 14) and N. sinuifrons
									Hancock (1899, 278), both of which were described from St. Anthony
									Park, Minn. The former species is probably valid and, according to Somes
										(1914, 10) has been taken at several localities in Minnesota. Since its
									known range is extralimital it is not farther considered in this work. N. sinuifrons is the same as E. M. Walker's borealis and is treated below as a race of N. cristatus,
									Hancock's name having priority.




								

								
									64. NOMOTETTIX CRISTATUS
										(Scudder), 1862, 478. Crested Grouse Locust.

									Grayish or fuscous brown, the disc of pronotum often ornamented with one or
										two triangular velvety black or black and white spots. Vertex nearly twice as
										wide as one of the eyes and extending in front of them, its front border broadly
										rounded or more or less obtuse-angulate, median carina prominent. Frontal costa
										deeply sinuate opposite middle of eyes. Pronotum with front dorsal margin
										advanced in an angle over the head sometimes to the posterior third of eyes;
										median carina strongly crested and arcuate. In the shorter and more common form
										the pronotum exceeds but slightly the tip of abdomen and the wings do not
										reach its apex; in the long form the pronotum extends 2--3 mm. and the wings
										3--4 mm. beyond the tip of abdomen. Length of body, short form, ♂, 7.7--9, ♀,
										8.6--10.2; of pronotum, ♂, 7.1--8.5, ♀, 8--9.5; of hind femora, ♂, 4--6, ♀, 5--6
										mm. Length of body, long form, ♂, 11--11.5, ♀, 11--12.5; of pronotum, ♂,
										9.5--10.7, ♀, 9.8--11.5; of hind femora, ♂ and ♀, 5--5.3 mm. (Fig. 1.)
								

								North Madison, Conn., Aug. 17 (W. S. B.). Beverly, Mass., April
									24 (Morse). This, the typical form and genotype of Nomotettix, was described from Massachusetts and ranges from Ontario and
									Nova Scotia throughout New England, New York and northern Pennsylvania south to
									Mt. Pisgah, N. Car. In New England Morse (1894a, 152) states that "it
									is found everywhere on light soils, but especially in dry pastures and other wild
									land sparsely covered with a scanty growth of curling tufts of Danthonia grass,
									scraps of Cladonia lichens and the leathery leaves of Antennaria. It is perhaps
									somewhat more plentiful in the damper portions of such localities, but differs
									much from the other species of the subfamily Tetriginæ in this particular, the
									others preferring soils perpetually moist or even the shores of lakes and
									streams." Batrachidea carinata
									Scudder (1862, 479) is a name given the long winged form of typical
										cristatus (Fig. 1 a), and is very scarce, but one or two to
									the hundred of the short form being found by Morse in Massachusetts.

								
									64a. NOMOTETTIX CRISTATUS COMPRESSUS
										Morse, 1895, 15. Western Crested Grouse Locust.

									Typical examples of this race or form differ from typical cristatus in having the front margin of pronotum projecting more
										strongly over the head and the median carina a little higher, more strongly
										compressed, more evenly curved and often so thin in section that, when held
										against the light, the punctuations of its surface appear translucent. Length of
										body, ♂, 7.5--8.4, ♀, 8--9.5; of pronotum, ♂, 7.3--7.8, ♀, 8--8.8; of hind
										femora, ♂, 4.3--6, ♀, 5--6 mm.
								

								Originally described from North Carolina, this race or form  of the crested grouse locust is known from southern New Jersey and
									eastern Pennsylvania west to Michigan and Illinois and south to Georgia. It is the
									only form of Nomnotettix known from Indiana where it probably
									occurs throughout the State. In the southern counties it makes its home on
									semi-barren rocky ridges and the sides of dry sunny banks in pastures where the
									grass is scant or has been cropped short, and where the species of "everlasting"
										(Antennaria and Anaphalis), delight to grow.
									In such places it may be taken by the score in late autumn or early spring. At
									Dune Park, Porter Co., it lives, says Hancock (1902, 59) "on dry
									sandy soil, lightly covered with fragments of twigs, leaves, and various fine
									debris accumulated from past seasons. Among the sand dunes it frequently seeks
									retreat in the clumps of prickly pear cactus on mossy covered ground slightly
									sheltered by trees. It is a curious little species, and though sometimes quite
									common locally, it requires the exercise of tact on hands and knees to capture the
									sprightly little insects. In the cool October mornings they do not appear to jump
									far, but as the sunlight warms the ground they become more active. Some are then
									in the last pupal stage, but the majority are adult."
								But three specimens of the long form, atavus
									Blatchley (1903, 219) have been taken among the hundreds of
									short-winged ones collected in Indiana, a male in Vigo county and a female in each
									of Lake and Perry counties. On account of the greater length of the pronotum, its
									median crest does not appear so prominent nor so strongly arched in the long form
									as in the more common one.
								Morse, in his notes following the original description of N.
										compressus, doubted its validity, and R. & H. and Hancock have showns
									that it merges and intergrades with cristatus so that at most it
									must be considered as only a geographic race.

								
									64b. NOMOTETTIX CRISTATUS FLORIDANUS
										Hancock, 1902, 64. Florida Crested Grouse Locust.

									As represented in southern Florida, this race differs from typical cristatus mainly in its distinctly more prominent eyes and much
										more rugose surface of pronotum. The vertex, viewed from the side, is slightly
										more acute-angulate, the median carina of pronotum a little less elevated and
										the tegmina notably smaller. Length of body, ♂, 6.8--7.2, ♀, 7.8--8.2; of
										pronotum, ♂, 6.5--6.8, ♀, 7.5--7.8; of hind femora, ♂, 4.1--4.4, ♀, 4.7--5.2
										mm.
								

								Port Orange, Fla., June 5 (Hancock's type); Sarasota, Sanford,
									Lakeland, LaBelle and Dunedin, Fla., Nov. 9--April 5  (W. S. B.) ; Tifton, Ga., June 6 (type of N.
										arcuatus>). A comparison of the types of both N.
										floridanus and N. arcuatus shows little appreciable
									difference, except in the less rugose surface of the pronotum and slightly more
									curved median carina of the latter. R. & H. (1916, 133) state
									that floridanus "was founded merely on an intensification of the
									characters which constitute the race arcuatus," and that floridanus is "known only from southern and central Florida, in
									the northern part of its range, gradually intergrading with arcuatus." Since floridanus has page priority I have
									dropped the name arcuatus, the form to which it has been
									referred being only a connecting link or intermediate form between the southern
									race floridanus and typical cristatus, and,
									quoting R. & H. (1916, 151), "the uselessness of a name for
									intermediates between weakly defined geographic races does not require comment."
									Were no intermediate forms known, the examples from central and southern Florida
									are sufficiently distinctive in their larger eyes and strongly rugose pronotum to
									have specific rank.
								A single male of N. c. floridanus with caudate or long pronotum
									was taken near Lakeland, Feb. 16, 1919, and is the first long form of this race to
									be recorded. In color it is pitchy black with a small white spot on each shoulder.
									The tip of the pronotum extends 2 mm. beyond the hind femora and is surpassed .8
									mm. by the folded inner wings. As in N. c. compressus the long
									pronotum with apparently lower, less curved crest gives it a very different facies
									from the short form.
								In addition to the localities given the race floridanus has
									been recorded by R. & H. under that name from Lakeland, Ft. Myers, and
									LaBelle, Fla. (1914d), and as arcuatus from Jacksonville,
									Baldwin, Atlantic Beach and Live Oak (1916, 132). They record the race arcuatus Hancock also from North and South Carolina, Georgia and
									Mississippi, while under the name Nomotettix cristatus
										denticulatus it was described and recorded by Morse (1906,
										119) from Oklahoma and Texas. Scudder (1877a, 90) recorded
										Batrachidea cristata from Ft. Reed, Fla., his specimens
									probably representing the race floridanus.
								About Dunedin N. c. floridanus occurs in numbers from November
									to April, perhaps throughout the year, in the low grasses and other vegetation
									along the sandy margins of ponds or small lakes, its habitats being much more
									hygrophilous than those of the northern forms cristatus and compressus. It seems also to vary more in color than does compressus in Indiana, a number of the  specimens taken near Dunedin being a uniform pitchy black, while
									several of them have a large white saddle-shaped blotch across the middle of the
									pronotum. Others are grayish-white with a pair of velvety black spots in front of
									humeral angles and another larger pair behind them. That the intermediate form,
									hitherto known as arcuatus, has a similar love for moist
									surroundings is shown by R. & H., who state that in North Carolina and Georgia
									"it was widely distributed and sometimes abundant in the undergrowth of the
									long-leaf pine woods, particularly where the ground is low, sandy and
									water-soaked. It has also been found abundant in low spots covered with short
									green grasses in the midst of saw palmetto flats."

								
									64c. NOMOTETTIX CRISTATUS SINUIFRONS
										Hancock, 1899, 278. Northern Crested Grouse Locust.

									This northern form or race differs from cristatus in
										having the vertex projecting a shorter distance in front of eyes, its median
										carina less prominent and when viewed from the side, the angular excavation of
										the frontal costa above the bases of the antennæ more shallow. Antennæ
										one-fourth shorter than in cristatus; eyes slightly more
										prominent. Pronotum more rugose-scabrous and with front margin less projecting
										over the head. Length of body, ♀, 8.5; of pronotum, 8; of hind femora, 5--5.6
										mm.
								

								A comparison of Hancock's type of N. sinuifrons taken at St.
									Anthony Park, Minn., and a cotype of N. borealis
									E. M. Walker (1909, 173) shows them to be the same as surmised by
										Hancock (1918), the only evident difference being the slightly
									wider vertex of the former. N. borealis was described from two
									females taken on the shore of Diamond Lake, Temagami District, Ont., Sept. 7,
									1908, and has not been recorded elsewhere. They were found in company with Acrydium acadicum (Scudder), on a strip of dry, sandy soil along
									the border of a sphagnum bog, and separated from the lake proper by a narrow ridge
									a few feet in height covered with scrub pine and blueberries. Outside of Minnesota
									the only record for N. sinuifrons under that name is by
										Smith (1910, 178) from Lakehurst, N. J.
								

								In addition to Nomotettix cristatus Scudder and its races,
									described above, I have examined, through the kindness of Dr. Hancock, the types
									of Nomotettix validus and N. arcticus
									Hancock (1909, 415). These undoubtedly represent the short and long
									forms respectively of a Nomotettix very distinct from N. cristatus. However, the exact locality at which they were taken
									is a matter  of doubt, as they formed a part of the
									W. W. Saunders collection purchased by Mrs. F. W. Hope and presented by her in
									1873 to the University Museum, Oxford, England. They were labelled briefly "Amer.
									b.," which R. Shelford, Curator of the Museum, interpreted to Hancock as "North
									America." Dr. Hancock states (Ms.) that they are "probably from the eastern part
									of Canada in the neighborhood of Hudson Bay, judging from other material examined
									at the same time." A brief comparative diagnosis of the species is therefore
									included as follows:

								
									(----). NOMOTETTIX VALIDUS
										Hancock, 1909, 415.

									Stouter than N. cristatus. Dark gray, the median crest of
										pronotum in the type dull yellow. Vertex with front margin obtuse-angulate, more
										strongly produced in front of eyes than in cristatus, its
										median carina slender, more elevated, continuous with the frontal costa, the
										latter not excavated or concave between the eyes as in cristatus, its branches narrow, distinctly divaricate, nearly as much so
										as in Neotettix. Pronotum with front dorsal margin more obtuse
										and less produced forward than in cristatus. Median carina
										lower and less arched than there; posterior process acute, reaching almost to
										tips of hind femora; tegminal sinus almost obsolete, lower one wide, rather
										deep, the lobe between them evident only as a convexity of the hind margin.
										Length of body, short form, ♀, 11; of pronotum, 8.8; of hind femora, 6.5 mm.
										Long form, length of body, ♀, 13; of pronotum, 11.5; of hind femora, 5.5
										mm.
								

								Two females, with origin as above given, were described by Hancock. I consider
									his N. arcticus only the long form of validus.
									The body is more slender, but the characters of vertex, frontal costa, etc., are
									the same.
							

							
								II. ACRYDIUM
									Geoffroy, 1764, 390. (Gr., "a locust.")

								This genus, which replaces Tetrix
									Latreille (1802), (Tettix Charp., 1841 of most
									authors), comprises those grouse locusts having the vertex wider than one of the
									eyes, and distinctly produced in front of them (Figs. 2b, 3), its front margin
									either subacute, subangulate or rounded, carinate at middle ; antennæ often
									shorter than head, 12- to 14-jointed, never reaching the shoulders; pronotum more
									or less rugose-granulate, with median carina usually distinct but not arched or
									raised as in Nomotettix, front margin truncate or feebly
									angulate, posterior process acute, very often abbreviated, the apex reaching the
									end of abdomen in short forms and usually extending much beyond it in long ones of
									the same species; hind femora swollen but more slender than in Nomotettix ; hind tibiæ feebly enlarged near apex, their carinæ short,
									spinose; first joint of hind tarsi distinctly longer than third.


								

								Hancock (1906) lists 49 nominal known species, 17 of them from North
									America, but a number of these are now known to be only long- or short-winged
									forms or geographic races of the same species, only five valid species and three
									races or varieties being recognized from our territory.

								
									KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF ACRYDIUM.34

									a. Median carina of pronotum more or less distinctly elevated along its
										entire length; dorsal surface of pronotum higher in the middle, sloping on the
										sides, more or less rugose or wrinkled as well as granulated; sides of vertex
										sinuate, its disc therefore feebly narrowed opposite the middle of eyes.
									b. Front of vertex, viewed from above, obtusely angulate, its median
										carina not projecting beyond the sides (Fig. 3.)
									c. Body very slender, the pronotum relatively narrow between the
										shoulders and posteriorly attenuate; frontal costa, viewed from the side, very
										slightly sinuate between the eyes; upper or tegminal sinus of lateral lobes
										nearly as deep as the lower one. 65. GRANULATUM.
									cc. Body stouter, the pronotum much broader between the shoulders, much
										less attenuate but acute posteriorly; frontal costa viewed in profile distinctly
										sinuate between the eyes; tegminal sinus obviously more shallow than the lower
										one. 66. BRUNNERI.
									bb. Front of vertex, viewed from above, convex or rounded, its median
										carina distinctly projecting as a small tooth beyond the sides (Fig. 2b.)
									d. Median carina of pronotum not elevated or compressed and curved
										between and before the shoulders; frontal costa but slightly sinuate between the
										eyes; form more slender. 67. ORNATUM.
									dd. Median carina of pronotum between and before the shoulders obviously
										more elevated, compressed and more or less curved; frontal costa distinctly
										concave or sinuate between the eyes; form more robust.
									e. Tegminal sinus almost as deep as the inferior one; middle femora
										enlarged, in male nearly one-half as wide as long; pronotum more slender, in
										short form distinctly surpassing the tips of hind femora. 67a.
												HANCOCKI.
									ee. Tegminal sinus much more shallow than the inferior one; middle
										femora three times or more as long as wide; pronotum broader and shorter, in the
										short form scarcely reaching the tips of hind femora. 68. ACADICUM.
									aa. Median carina of pronotum indistinct, not at all or very little
										elevated; dorsal surface of pronotum flat or nearly so, the surface granulated,
										rarely rugose; sides of vertex subparallel, its disc not narrowed opposite the
										middle of eyes.
								

								34Hancock (I909,
										414) described Tettix (Acrydium) americana and its
									short form dimorpha from specimens in the Oxford (England)
									University Museum. Since their original locality is in doubt, being designated
									only as "Amer. b.," they are not considered in this work.




								

								
									g. Pronotum granulose, its lateral caring only moderately compressed,
										its dorsal surface not suddenly strongly narrowed behind the shoulders; oblique
										ridges of hind femora feeble.
									h. Body rather slender, the posterior portion of pronotum prolonged,
										acute; vertex distinctly depressed in front; eyes prominent; frontal costa
										feebly sinuate, narrowly sulcate. 69. ARENOSUM.
									hh. Body more robust, the pronotum less prolonged posteriorly (Fig.
										62.); vertex but little depressed in front; eyes of medium size; frontal costa,
										viewed from the side, distinctly sinuate between the eyes. 69a.
												OBSCURUM.
									gg. Pronotum rugose-granulose, its lateral carina decidedly compressed
										and dorsal surface strongly narrowed behind the shoulders; oblique ridges on
										outer face of hind femora strong. 69b. BLATCHLEYI.
								

								
									65. ACRYDIUM GRANULATUM
										Wm. Kirby, 1837, 251. Granulated Grouse Locust.

									Body, especially that of male, very slender. Color variable, usually wholly
										grayish or reddish-brown, sometimes blackish; pronotum often with a median
										yellowish band along the full length, rarely with irregular brown or black spots
										preceded by a white or cream-colored saddle-like marking. Surface of pronotum
										and legs finely granulated; the dorsal surface of the former also rugose with
										numerous very short ridges or tubercles. Vertex as described in key, its front
										border considerably advanced in front of eyes; face very oblique; eyes small.
										Pronotum with front margin truncate, posterior process attenuate, the apex
										acute, passing the hind femora 2--4.5 mm.; median carina prominent throughout
										but not crested. Wings reaching to or slightly beyond tip of pronotum; in life
										bluish or bottle-green in color. Length of body, ♂, 8.5--13.5; ♀, 11--15.3; of
										pronotum, ♂, 8--11.5, ♀, 12--13.5; of hind femora, ♂, 6, ♀, 7 mm. (Fig.
										60.)
								
								
									Fig. 60. Male. X 2: pronotum of two color varieties. (After Kirby.)
								

								Lake, Porter, Fulton, Marshall, Marion and Franklin counties, Ind., Feb. 20--Oct.
									7; LaSalle Island and South Haven, Mich., June 1--July 29 (W. S.
										B.). Doubtless occurs throughout Indiana, but much more abundant in the
									northern portion, as it ranges from Nova Scotia and throughout New England
									westward to the Pacific and northward through British America, Kirby's unique type
									having been taken in Lat. 65 degrees. It is not recorded south of New Jersey
									southern Indiana and Kansas.


								

								This slender grouse locust has an especial liking for marshy and boggy tracts
									about the margins of lakes and tamarack swamps, though it is likely to occur
									anywhere in low wet woods, and one specimen was taken in Marion County April 15,
									while swimming on the surface of a woodland pond. It is sometimes, however, found
									in dry localities as Somes (1914, 11) records noting a colony in a
									sandy cultivated field in Iowa, at least a mile from any stream or body of water,
									where they were feeding upon the tender stems of young grain. In Vigo Co., Ind.,
									it was found hibernating February 20 beneath logs along the sandy border of a
									large river-bottom pond. The light band along the middle line of pronotum is in a
									high degree protective when the locusts dwell among the grasses and sedges of
									marshy tracts, as it harmonizes with the dried blades of these plants.
								Hancock (1902, 72) records the finding of granulatum in Wisconsin on the ground "about prostrate tree trunks, which
									were molding in decay and covered with greenish lichens and mosses. The yellowish
									and brownish fallen leaves were everywhere scattered over the bed of the forest.
									Occasionally, when the wind was, not blowing, I was able to mark the presence of
									the little locusts by the sound made as they jumped upon the dried leaves."
										Morse (1894a, 163) says that "in New England this species prefers
									sedgy meadow lands and swales on sandy soil occasionally flooded by rains or
									freshets and perpetually moist. The bulk of my specimens were taken on a boggy
									swamp which had been filled in with sand, and on which water stood more or less of
									the time." Baker found granulatum hibernating beneath stones at
									Ft. Collins, Col., while in Michigan Hebard took it in early July about marshy
									spots on logging trails where they were very active, springing several feet when
									flushed. Scudder (1898c) states that it has several times been taken
									close to the summit of Mt. Washington and occurs everywhere in New England.
								A form with the pronotum and wings more or less abbreviated is occasionally found
									with the common form of granulatum. To it Hancock has given the
									varietal name variegatus.35
									Tettix luggeri
									Hancock (1897, 109), recorded from Minnesota and Illinois, is a
									synonym of granulatnum. It was distinguished only by having the
									front border of vertex convex instead of obtuse-angulate, and both Hancock
										(1902, 73) and Somes (1914, 11) record the finding 35Another form with wider
										pronotum, the incurvata Hancock, described from Washington,
										Colorado and New Mexico, is listed by Morse (1919) from Northern
										New England as a variety of granulatum. Its status is as yet
										uncertain.
									 of numerous intermediate connecting forms. T. morsei
									Hancock (1899, 280) is also a synonym, as noted by its author (1906,
									58).

								
									66. ACRYDIUM BRUNNERI
										(Bolivar), 1887, 266. Brunner's Grouse Locust.

									Body broad, granulate; fuscous or dark brownish-yellow, often with two black
										spots on pronotum. Vertex twice as wide as one of the eyes, strongly advanced in
										front of them, its front margin obtuse-angulate; sides broadly emarginate
										opposite the middle of eyes, the vertex, therefore, broader in front of the
										emargination. Pronotum with front margin truncate, nearly reaching hind border
										of eyes; posterior process acute, scarcely reaching apex of hind femora (short
										form) or distinctly surpassing them in the long form, caudata
										Hancock (1906, 59); median carina distinct but low. Tegmina
										elongate-oval, their tips rounded; wings equalling or slightly surpassing the
										apex of pronotum. Length of body, short form, ♂, 9--10.3, ♀, 11.4--14.5; of
										pronotum, ♂, 9.3, ♀, 10.5--12; of hind femora, ♂, 5--6, ♀, 6--6.6 mm. Long form,
										length of body, 15.5; of pronotum, 13.8; of hind femora, 6.2 mm.
								

								Isle Royale and Porcupine Mts., Mich. (Hubbell) ; Kaslo, B. C.
										(Caudell). Known only from Canada, Michigan and the
									Northwestern United States. Bolivar's types were from Hudson Bay. E. M.
										Walker (1909, 174) has recorded it from Temagami Falls and Algonquin
									Park, Ontario, the single specimen from the former locality being a macropterous
									male, having the pronotal process extending 4 mm. and the wings 4.7 mm. beyond the
									tips of hind femora. It was found Sept. 2 in a small opening on a portage through
									a forest of mixed white pine, spruce, balsam, canoe birch, etc. The pair at hand
									from Michigan seem to be intermediate between the brachypterous and macropterous
									forms, the pronotum in both slightly surpassing the hind femora, in the male by
									about 2 mm. The specimens from the Hancock and U. S. National Museum collections
									were taken by Caudell at Kaslo, B. C., July 2--Aug. 5, and are all brachypterous.
										Hancock (1902, 76) records it from Oregon, Green River, Wyoming and
									Tennessee Pass, Colorado. Tettix tentatus
									Morse (1899, 200) is a synonym.

								
									67. ACRYDIUM ORNATUM
										Say, 1824, 10. Ornate Grouse Locust.

									Size medium, form slender. Color extremely variable, usually dark grayish,
										sometimes rusty brown or fuscous; often ornamented with two or four irregular
										velvety brown spots on dorsal surface of pronotum, more rarely a large whitish
										spot in front of these; hind femora often with one or two white blotches on the
										outer face (Fig. 59.) Surface of pronotum and legs everywhere finely granulate;
										posterior half of pronotum usually rugose with numerous short, oblique wrinkles
										or ridges. Vertex as described in key, its front border distinctly projecting in
										front of eyes. Pronotum variable in length, in the long form less prolonged
										backward  than in granulatum,
										its dorsal front margin truncate; median carina distinct but not as high as in
											granulatum. Inner wings fully developed, extending slightly
										beyond apex of pronotum (Fig. 2.) The short form, Tettix
											triangularis
										Scudder (1862, 475) appears somewhat stouter, due to the
										abbreviated pronotum which is more acute and reaches only the tips of hind
										femora, while the wings do not extend beyond its apex (Fig. 2.) The two forms
										have been proven by Hancock to interbreed and the measurements intergrade, the
										following being the extremes. Length of body ♂, 8.5--12.5, ♀, 9--13.5; of
										pronotum, ♂, 7.5--10.5, ♀, 8--12; of hind femora, ♂, 4.5--5.5, ♀, 5--7 mm. (Fig.
										59.)
								

								The ornate grouse locust is a common species throughout Indiana, and may be found
									any month in the year, but is most abundant in late autumn and early spring,
									occurring then usually along the edges of dry open woods and on gravelly
									hillsides,, while in summer it is occasionally found in company with Paratettix cucullatus (Burm.) about the borders of streams and ponds. It
									sometimes makes its home in grassy plots and lawns, especially those which are
									wooded, in the outskirts of cities, and is then often seen sunning on the cement
									and other sidewalks along their margins. The form triangularis
									more often occurs in sandy localities, and in some places far outnumbers the
									typical form.
								On a bright sunny afternoon in late November, I once found both forms of ornatum very common on a sloping hillside two miles north of
									Indianapolis. A clover field was here adjoining an open woods pasture, and the
									second crop had been cut in October for the seed. Many of the dead stalks had
									fallen close along the fence row separating the fields, and here the little
									locusts were in abundance, their bodies all grayish-brown, and corresponding very
									closely to the dead clover stems; so closely, indeed, that they were not visible
									until they hopped, and then had to be "marked down" before they were captured.
									Beneath the bottom rails of the old fence they had found a comfortable abiding
									place and winter retreat, and on this bright afternoon had been tempted forth to
									bask in the sunlight and perchance to feed upon the green clover leaves which were
									yet abundant in places among the dead and fallen stems.
								A. ornatum ranges from New England and Ontario west to Alberta
									and Colorado and south and southwest to North Carolina, Tennessee, Mississippi,
									Texas and New Mexico. It is recorded by Scudder from the summit of Mt. Washington,
									and in the northern states is often found in company with Nomotettix
										cristatus and Acrydium granulatum, though usually
									preferring dryer localities than does the latter species.



								


								A study of the type and other specimens of Tettix crassus
									Morse (1899, 201) from both the Morse and the U. S. National Museum
									collections, shows no characters sufficiently distinctive to separate it from ornatum. Three of the specimens labelled crassus
									from the National Museum collection I regard as only slender bodied males of the
									long form, or typical ornatum, one of them, from Constantine,
									Mich., having been determined by Hancock, and furnishing the basis for his
									Michigan record of crassus (1906, 59), which is the only record
									from the eastern States, it having been described from Colorado and recorded from
									British Columbia, Nebraska, New Mexico, Missouri and Kansas. Morse agrees with me,
									not only in making crassus a synonym of ornatum, but in reducing his hancocki to varietal
									rank.

								
									67a. ACRYDIUM ORNATUM HANCOCKI
										(Morse), 1899, 200. Hancock's Grouse Locust.

									A variety of A. ornatum Say, with which it agrees in
										color, granulation and rugosity of surface, but differs in its more robust form,
										with wider and slightly more projecting vertex, and "notably in the enlarged
										middle femora, the expanded portion of the latter in the male, being near) or
										quite one-half as broad as long (in ornatum seldom more than
										one-third), the difference less noticeable in the female." Pronotum with humeral
										angles more pronounced and mid-carina slightly more elevated in front of
										shoulders. Length of body, ♂, 8.3--12, ♀, 9--13; of pronotum, ♂, 8.5--11, ♀,
										8--12; of hind femora, ♂, 5, ♀, 5.5--6 mm.
								

								Marshall, Marion, Vigo and Crawford counties, Ind., May 20--Nov. 3 (W. S. B.). Morse's cotypes were in part from Vigo County. Ranges from
									Montreal west to Saskatchewan, and widely distributed in the Upper Austral and
									Transition zones of the U. S., west to Colorado and south to North Carolina,
									Tennessee and Central Arkansas, occurring most generally on moist upland soils of
									sandy texture, especially on high elevations. In Indiana it frequents the same
									localities as A. ornatum, the two being often found in company.
									Forms with both long and short pronotum are known, the name abbreviatum having been given to the short one, which is usually the more
									abundant. In the long form the pronotum and wings pass the hind femora about 3.5
									mm.

								
									68. ACRYDIUM ACADICUM
										(Scudder), 1875f, 345. Acadian Grouse Locust.

									Body robust. Color grayish- or clay-yellow, the pronotum often with a small
										black spot each side in front of humeral angles and a larger one behind them,
										these sometimes separated by a wide saddle-shaped white spot; hind femora with a
										few scattered black markings. Vertex more than twice as broad as one of the
										eyes, strongly advanced in front of them, the front margin rounded or feebly
										obtuse-angulate, its median carina  distinctly
										projecting. Frontal costa distinctly sinuate opposite middle of eyes, its sides
										parallel and sulcus rather wide and deep. Pronotum with front margin truncate
										and posterior process acute; dorsal surface finely and evenly granulate, notably
										widened between the shoulders, the humeral angles obtusely rounded; tegminal
										sinus small, shallow, the lower one widely angulate, the median lobe between the
										two feebly developed. Tegmina elongate-oval, their tips subacuminate. Wings
										extending to or nearly to apex of pronotum. Length of body, ♀, 9.5--10; of
										pronotum, 9--9.6; of hind femora, 5.5--6 mm. (Fig. 61.)
								

								This is also a species of northern range, Scudder's type being from Lake of the
									Woods, Ontario. Recorded in our territory from Baraga County, Michigan, July
									5--Aug. 1. (Rehn, 1904d, 232); Diamond Lake,
									Temagami District and Ft. William, Ontario (E. M. Walker,
										1909, 175). Known also from Cheboygan Co., Mich., Aweme, Manitoba, St.
									Anthony Park, Minn., Steamboat Springs and San Louis, Colorado, Nebraska and
									northern New Mexico. Walker's specimen from Ft. Williams was a long form female,
									with body 11 and pronotum 12.2 mm. in length. It appears to prefer much the same
									habitats as does A. granulatum, occurring about the edges of
									peat bogs and cedar swamps and along the banks of streams. A St. Anthony Park
									specimen has a large white spot across the pronotum at its widest part, this
									bordered in front by two small and behind by two larger triangular black velvety
									spots. The males appear to be very scarce. There are none in the National Museum
									or Hancock collections and the only specific mention of them is by Rehn
										(1904, 232), who records two from Pequaming, Mich.
								
									Fig. 61. Female X 2. (After Lugger.)
								

								
									69. ACRYDIUM ARENOSUM
										(Burm.), 1838, 659. Sanded Grouse Locust.

									Body rather slender; pronotum everywhere minutely granulate but little
										rugose or wrinkled. Color grayish or blackish, often with a large squarish white
										spot on dorsal surface between the humeral angles, this spot usually with traces
										of black on its hind margin. Vertex, viewed from above, nearly twice the width
										of one of the eyes, extending but little beyond front of them, its front margin
										subtruncate; median carina indistinct, scarcely if at all projecting. Antennæ
										slender, the joints elongate. Pronotum as described in key, front margin
										truncate, posterior portion usually prolonged and extending much beyond the hind
										femora; tegminal sinus rather deep, the lower sinus wider and deeper, the lobe
										between them prominent, obtuse. Tegmina elongate-oval, their tips obtusely
										rounded. Inner wings fully developed, a little surpassing the tip of pronotum.
										Front femora sinuate or lobed beneath. Length of body, ♂, 8--12, ♀, 9--14; of
										pronotum, ♂, 9.8--10.5, ♂, 12--13; of hind femora, ♂, 4.3--5, ♀, 5.3--5.7
										mm.
								


								

								Common throughout southern Indiana, Kosciusko county only in the northern
									portion; April 9--Oct. 4. Leon County and Jacksonville, Fla., February--April
											(R. & H., 1904). Ranges from Indiana and
									Virginia west and south to Nebraska, Louisiana and Texas. Common throughout the
									southern States except peninsular Florida, where it is replaced by the race blatchleyi. In Indiana it frequents upland woods which are dry and
									open, being seldom found in the vicinity of water. Elsewhere it is said to occur
									mainly on sandy loams in company with other xerophilous species of the family.
									From A. ornatum it may be easily separated by its more slender
									form, flatter and less projecting parallel-sided vertex, more depressed pronotum
									with less prominent median carina, and by its evenly and finely granulated
									surface. The annulations of antennæ and legs are much less distinct than in ornatum and the general color is not so variable. A short form is
									known but is very scarce.

								
									69a. ACRYDIUM ARENOSUM OBSCURUM
										(Hancock), 1896, 239. Obscure Grouse Locust.

									A form or variety of arenosum with which it agrees in
										color. Distinguished by the slightly larger size, with vertex less depressed in
										front; frontal costa in profile more projecting beyond the eyes, the sinuation
										more distinct between their lower portion, viewed in front the costa more
										appreciably furcate. Eyes smaller. Pronotum strongly constricted before the
										shoulders, less prolonged backward than in arenosum; the
										median carina indistinct through most of its length, a little raised on anterior
										third. Tegmina more elongate. Inner wings extending slightly beyond tip of
										pronotum. Length of body, ♂, 11--11.7, ♀, 13--13.9; of pronotum, ♂, 9.8--11, ♀,
										11.5--13; of hind femora, ♂, 4.5--5.2, ♀, 5.5 mm. (Fig. 62.)
								
								
									Fig. 62. Female X 2.3. (After Hancock.)
								

								Vigo, Marion and Lake counties, Indiana, Apr. 6--Nov. 7. Range in general more
									northern than that of typical arenosum, extending through the
									upper Carolinian and Transition zones in eastern North America or from Truro, Nova
									Scotia, DeGrassi Point, Ont., and eastern Maine, west to St. Anthony Park, Minn.,
									and Nebraska, south to Maryland, Virginia, northern Georgia, Missouri and Kansas.
									Intergrades with typical arenosum in the southern part of its
									range, and very close to it wherever found. In Indiana it occurs with arenosum, and Hancock wrote me when returning some specimens, that some of
									them labelled by him as obscurunm "shade off into forms
									approaching arenosum."


								

								Synonyms of this variety or of typical arenosum are Tettix angustus
									Hancock (1896, 238), which he later placed (1902, 89) "as a variety
									which merges into arenosum on the one side and obscurum on the other"; T. gibbosa Hancock, which was
									considered by me (1903, 225) as "only a shorter and wider form of arenosum having the pronotum a little more constricted than usual in front
									of the shoulders"; and T. inflatus, decoratus and fluctuosus Hancock, which have since been stated by their author (1902,
									90) to be synonyms. Rehn (1904f, 326) says that "the separation of
										obscurum, arenosum and gibbosum is a task
									which is practically hopeless. There is some evidence in retaining obscurum as a geographic race of arenosum, but gibbosum is inseparable from obscurum." In their
									latest paper treating of the Tetrigidæ (1916, 134) R. & H. have
									retained obscurum as a geographic race, but have (wrongfully, I
									think) replaced the name with angustum, which Hancock, as above
									quoted, says is an intermediate form between arenosum and obscurum, and as such has no standing.

								
									69b. ACRYDIUM .ARENOSUM BLATCHLEYI
										(Hancock), 1902, 91. Blatchley's Grouse Locust.

									A very slender southern form of arenosum from which it is
										distinguished by having the pronotum and femora more rugose-tuberculate, the
										lateral carinæ of pronotum more decidedly compressed and its dorsal surface
										behind the shoulders strongly compressed or narrowed. The frontal costa, viewed
										in profile, is distinctly advanced beyond the eyes and strongly sinuate between
										their lower portions. Pronotum usually attenuate and distinctly surpassing the
										tips of hind femora but sometimes much shorter, more acute and surpassing the
										femora only .5 mm.; lower sinus of lateral lobes much narrower and deeper than
										in arenosum. Tegmina oblong-oval, their tips obtusely
										angulate. Wings slightly shorter or subequal in length to pronotum. Hind femora
										with numerous strong oblique ridges on outer face. Antennæ and tibiæ annulate.
										Length of body, ♂, 9--9.5, ♀, 9--11.5; of pronotum, ♂, 8--8.5, ♀, 8.6--10.7; of
										hind femora, ♂ and ♀, 5--5.3 mm.
								

								Ormond, Fla., Apr. 9, 1899 (type) ; Dunedin, Fla., Jan. 22--Apr. 1; LaBelle,
									Fla., Feb. 25 (W. S. B.). Deep Lake, Fla., Apr. 13 (R. & H., 1914d). The above are the only known stations of this grouse
									locust. At Dunedin specimens have been taken on several occasions by sweeping a
									recently cleared space along the margins of a garden which occupies a large tract
									of rich soil on the former side of a wet hammock, and is still in great part
									surrounded by a dense hammock growth. Only two or three individuals were taken at
									a time. The sweeping yielded also Tettigidea lateralis
									 Say and Anaxipha pulicaria
									(Burm.), the latter not being found elsewhere on the mainland about Dunedin.
								Scudder (1877a, 90) recorded Tettix arenosus from
									Ft. Reed, Fla., and stated that "it is closely allied to T.
										rugosa Scudd., but the wings scarcely surpass the pronotum, a feature which
									appears to be constant." Since this character is true of A. a.
										blatchleyi and not of A. a. arenosum, his specimens were
									probably of the former race.
							

							
								III. NEOTETTIX
									Hancock, 1898, 138. (Gr., "new" + Tettix.)

								Short, rather stout species having the body granulate or rugose; vertex wider
									than one of the eyes, its front margin convex or rounded, viewed from the side
									slightly advanced in front of eyes (Fig. 62a) ; frontal costa convex, not sinuate
									between the eyes, its branches, viewed in front, strongly divergent or forked;
									antennæ rather stout, short, composed of 12, rarely 13, segments; pronotum with
									its front dorsal margin advanced over the head to the eyes, posterior process
									acute and usually not or barely reaching tips of hind femora, surpassing them in
									the long forms; its dorsal surface more or less tectate between the shoulders,
									median carina distinct, usually more elevated between and in front of shoulders;
									tegmina elongate-elliptical, sometimes very minute, their tips rounded or
									subacuminate; wings either aborted or fully developed and slightly passing the
									apex of pronotum; hind femora rather short; hind tarsi with first segment
									distinctly longer than second and third united, the pulvilli acute but more or
									less flat below. Ten species have been described from North America, but R.
										& H. (1916, 135) have shown that six of them are synonyms. The three
									found in our territory are separated as follows:

								
									KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF NEOTETTIX.

									a. Hind margin of lateral lobes of pronotum bisinuate; tegmina always
										well developed and exposed; pronotum with front dorsal margin truncate and
										median carina not strongly compressed, elevated and curved.
									b. Pronotum with dorsal surface finely granulose, sometimes feebly
										tuberculate, its hind process in short forms narrowly acute at tip; ridges on
										outer face of hind femora not prominent. 70. FEMORATUS.
									bb. Pronotum with dorsal surface distinctly rugose-tuberculate, usually
										strongly so between the shoulders, the short ridges usually paired and regular,
										more prominent in the female; hind process of pronotum in short form much
										stouter and obtusely  rounded at tip; hind femora
										with oblique ridges on outer face strongly developed. 71. BOLTERI.
									aa. Hind margin of lateral lobes unisinuate, the tegminal sinus absent
										(short form) feebly bisinuate (long form); tegmina very minute, ♂, larger but
										almost concealed, ♀; pronotum with front dorsal margin obtuse-angulate and
										median carina elevated, compressed and arched much as in Nomotettix. 72. PROAVUS.
								

								
									70. NEOTETTIX FEMORATUS
										(Scudder), 1869, 306. Short-legged Grouse Locust.

									Short, robust. Usually uniform light fuscous or grayish-brown; pronotum
										oftentimes with an oblique black bar behind each shoulder, these sometimes
										bordered in front with white, its median carina rarely dull yellow throughout;
										antennæ and tibiæ annulate with paler. Vertex slightly wider than one of the
										eyes, male, one-half wider, female, more or less concave each side of median
										carina, its front margin feebly rounded. Frontal costa, viewed in profile,
										slightly produced in front of eyes, narrowed and compressed at point of union
										with median carina of vertex. Eyes globose, prominent. Pronotum as described in
										key, its apex in short form acute, not quite reaching tips of hind femora, in
										long form surpassing them by 3 mm.; median carina distinct throughout; tegminal
										sinus shallow, the lower one deep, acute, the lobe between them rather sharply
										rounded. Wings in short form not reaching tip of pronotum, in long form
										surpassing them 1.5 mm. Length of body, ♂, 8--8.5, ♀, 9--10; of pronotum, ♂,
										7--8, ♀, 7.5--8.5; of hind femora, ♂ and ♀, 5--5.6 mm. Of long form, a, length
										of body, 11.5; of pronotum, 9.5; of hind femora, 5.5 mm.
								

								Crawford County, Ind., July 25, one male, long form; Dunedin, Lakeland, LaBelle
									and Moore Haven, Fla., Jan. 9.--March 30, short form (W. S. B.)
									; Thomasville, Ga., June 19--Sept. 23 (Hebard) ; Bloomington,
									Ind. (U. S. N. M. Coll.). From Florida it has also been recorded
									from eleven other localities between Pablo Beach, Gainesville, Miami and Ft.
									Myers, and probably occurs throughout the State. Ranges from Staten Island, N. Y.,
									Maryland and southern Indiana, south and west to Florida, Columbia, Texas,
									Oklahoma and Iowa. At Dunedin it was found only along the sandy margins of
									recently drained ponds in company with N. c. floridanus Hck. and
										Apotettix rugosus Scudd. In other places it is recorded as
									occurring in open pine woods and palmetto scrub.
								Morse (1907, 25) says femoratus is "one of the
									most plentiful of Tettiginæ in the southeastern quarter of the country, often
									occurring in great abundance in specially favorable localities, generally
									preferring sandy soils which are frequently or perpetually moist." At Waycross,
									Ga., 152 specimens were equally divided between the long and short forms, but
									long-winged examples are usually much fewer, ranging from 5 to 20 per cent. At
									Dunedin  but four of the long form have been found
									among the 30 or more taken. Morse (1904, 25) and R. & H.
										(1916, 135) have shown that N. bolivari
									Hancock (1898, 139) and its long form, longipennis
									Hancock (1902, 165), as well as N. rotundifrons and
										N. variabilis Hancock are all synonyms of N.
										femoratus.

								
									71. NEOTETTIX BOLTERI
										Hancock, 1898, 139. Bolter's Grouse Locust.

									Body short, robust. Dark gray or fuscous, tibiæ and tarsi annulate with
										light and dark, ovipositor brown. Vertex nearly twice as wide as one of the
										eyes, its median carina visible only on front half, front border rounded.
										Frontal costa, viewed from the side, strongly convex between the bases of
										antennæ. Eyes prominent, subglobose. Pronotum with dorsal front margin truncate,
										reaching the eyes; lateral carin in front of shoulders high and distinct;
										posterior process with sides converging gradually to a rather obtuse apex, which
										terminates just above the base of ovipositor; tegminal sinus very shallow,
										almost obsolete, the lower one narrower and deeper than in femoratus, the lobe between them much more broadly rounded. Tegmina
										oblong, the apical half rounded. Wings abbreviated, three-fourths the length of
										posterior portion of pronotum. Length of body, ♂, 6.8, ♀, 8--10; of pronotum, ♂,
										8.2, ♀, 7--8.5; of hind femora, ♂, 4.2, ♀, 5--6 mm.
								

								Knox County, Ind., April 23, nymphs; July 1--6, adults (W. S.
										B.). Occurs throughout Florida, there being numerous records from Barrancas
									and Monticello to Miami and Key West. Ranges from Petersburg, Virginia and
									southern Indiana south to Key West, Fla., and west to eastern Texas.
								The first Indiana specimen, a female, was taken from the border of a large
									cypress swamp in Knox County on July 6, 1902. A second visit to the place on April
									23, 1903, resulted only in the finding of four half-grown nymphs. The whole swamp
									was then covered with water several feet in depth, and the young were found in
									company with the young and adults of other Tetrigids on the higher ground
									bordering the water, within ten feet of its margin and only a few rods from the
									nearest cypress trees. On July 1, two additional females were taken at the same
									place and the species was described by me (1903, 226) as Neotettix
										hancocki. This name, as well as N. coarctatus
									Hancock (1902, 165) and Apotettix minutus
									R. & H. (1905, 34) have been placed in synonymy under bolteri by R. & H. (1916, 144). Outside of
									Indiana bolteri is said to occur in marshy sink holes, in wet
									weedy spots and among low undergrowth in pine woods. The form with long pronotum,
										minutus R. & H., is so far known only from central and
									southern Florida.


								

								From M. femoratus, its nearest ally, bolteri
									is easily recognized by its slightly more bulky form, the more convex and
									prominent frontal costa, larger eyes, higher lateral carinæ of pronotum behind the
									eyes, and especially by the prominent tubercles on the surface of the front dorsal
									half of pronotum. The tegmina are shorter and broader, the upper notch of lateral
									lobe of pronotum more shallow, and the median lobe more rounded than in femoratus.

								
									72. NEOTETTIX PROAVUS
										Rehn & Hebard, 1916, 139. Forked-face Grouse Locust.

									Rather large, compressed. Color variable, usually fuscous-black or dark
										brown with an oblique velvety black triangular spot behind each shoulder;
										lateral lobes and hind portion of pronotum sometimes paler brown, rarely uniform
										pale brown throughout; antennæ annulate with brown. Vertex about twice as wide
										as one of the eyes, concave each side of its median carina; frontal costa with
										forks strongly diverging to the antennal bases, then subparallel to the median
										ocellus. Eyes feebly flattened, moderately prominent. Antennæ short, 12-jointed.
										Pronotum strongly compressed, its crest distinctly curved in front of shoulders,
										less so behind them; its front margin reaching middle of eyes; humeral angles
										very obtuse; posterior process acute, not reaching tips of hind femora; dorsal
										surface with numerous small rounded tubercles or granules, these larger between
										the shoulders. Wings abbreviate, two-thirds the length of pronotum. Valves of
										ovipositor compressed, strongly toothed. Length of body, ♂, 8.1--8.5, ♀,
										9.9--10.4; of pronotum, ♂, 7.3--7.8, ♀, 8.5; of hind femora, ♂, 5--5.3, ♀, 6
										mm.
								

								
									Fig. 62a. Neotettix proavus R. & H. a,
										Female, side view, showing crested pronotum; b, dorsal view of
										head and front part of pronotum; c, front view of head showing
										forked frontal costa. (After Hancock.)
								

								Clarksville, Tenn., June 19--25 (Fox). Taken by R. & H. at
									Macon, Buckhead and Jasper, Ga., and Murphy, N. Car., July 25-August 2. These are
									the only records so far known. It is a very distinct and aberrant species,
									strongly resembling Nomotettix cristatus
									 but larger, more robust and with the furcate
									frontal costa and characters of vertex of Neotettix.36 It may be considered a
									connecting link between the two genera.
								Fox (Ms.) states that about Clarksville, Tenn., C. proavus is
									found "in May and June in more or less open sun-lit areas on mossy, grassy or
									leaf-covered ground in upland or hillside woods, occurring in much the same type
									of surroundings as Spharagemon bolli, Melanoplus scudderi and
										Melanoplus luridus. It is decidedly local or sporadic in its
									occurrence." He has described (1918) a long-winged or caudate female form of proavus found at Clarksville, having the tegminal sinus clearly
									defined and the tegmina quite well developed and plainly visible.
							

							
								IV. PARATETTIX
									Bolivar, 1887, 270. (Gr., "near" + Tettix.)

								From the other grouse locusts the members of this genus may be readily known by
									the vertex being short, narrow, never wider than one of the eyes and not extending
									in front of them (Fig. 4), its front margin truncate and disk concave each side of
									the median carina; frontal costa prominent between the antennæ, feebly sinuate
									between the eyes which are prominent and subglobose; antennæ filiform, a little
									longer than head, 14-jointed; pronotum with dorsal surface flattened, convex
									between the shoulders, its front margin truncate, advanced forward upon the head
									to eyes; its posterior process usually prolonged, the median carina low; tegmina
									oval or elongate, punctate; wings usually fully developed, rarely abbreviated;
									hind tibiæ with their apical third gradually enlarged and spinose; first joint of
									hind tarsi longer than third, pulvilli of second and third joints covered with
									numerous fine points or spicules.

								
									KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF PARATETTIX.

									a. Pronotum longer, its apex subulate, usually much surpassing the tips
										of hind femora, its median carina feebly elevated throughout its length. 73. CUCULLATUS.
									aa. Pronotum shorter, its apex acute, not reaching tips of hind femora,
										its median carina distinctly elevated throughout. 74. TOLTECUS.
								

								
									73. PARATETTIX CUCULLATUS
										(Burmeister), 1838, 658. Hooded Grouse Locust.

									Moderately robust, the pronotum smoothly and evenly granulate. Color usually
										a uniform yellowish-gray, sometimes russet-red or dull 36As Hebard (1919) has
											shown, the Cavotettix apterus
											Hancock (1918, 345) is a mere form of N.
												proavus. It was described from specimens of proavus
											taken by Fox at Clarksville, Tenn., and now in my collection, the differences
											pointed out by its author being based upon the printed descriptions of proavus and not by comparison with the type of that
											species.
										 black, the tibiæ annulate with light and dark.
										Vertex slightly narrower than one of the eyes, male, equal in width to one of
										them, female, reaching nearly to front border of eyes; median carina faint, not
										projecting in front; disc feebly but acutely notched opposite middle of eyes,
										its front portion shorter and narrower than hind one. Frontal costa but slightly
										advanced in front of eyes, its branches but feebly divergent, the sulcus narrow,
										deep. Pronotum with dorsal surface almost flat, median carina wanting or
										indistinct on front portion, low on the elongated posterior process, which
										extends about 3 mm. beyond the tips of hind femora; humeral angles carinate,
										obtuse, less so in males; anterior carinæ faint, short, feebly diverging
										apically; hind margin of lateral lobes bisinuate; tegminal sinus shallow, lower
										one much wider and deeper, the lobe between them obliquely rounded. Tegmina
										elongate, narrow, their tips subacuminate; wings usually surpassing tip of
										pronotum by 2 mm. Middle femora feebly sinuate above, varying from almost
										straight to strongly undulate below; hind femora rather stout, finely granulate
										and with numerous indistinct oblique ridges on outer face. Length of body, ♂,
										10--12.5, ♀, 12.5--15.5; of pronotum, ♂, 9.5--11, ♀, 11--13.4; of hind femora,
										♂, 5.5, ♀, 6.5--7 mm. (Fig. 63.)
								

								
									Fig. 63. Male X 2.5. (After Lugger.)
								

								Common throughout southern Indiana, less so in the northern portion; Feb.
									21--Nov. 28; Livingstone, Ky., June 21; Mobile, Ala., Aug. 30; Agricultural
									College, Miss., Aug. 22; Chester and Pine Bluff, Ark., Sept. 1--Oct. 23; Sherman,
									Texas, July 5. In Florida it has been recorded only from Marianna, but specimens
									are in the Gainesville collection labelled "Lake City, June 3." Ranges from
									Ontario and New England, west to Minnesota and Colorado and south to northern
									Florida and central Texas.
								In Indiana the hooded grouse locust is found throughout the year, hibernating in
									winter beneath logs and other cover close to its favorite summer haunts. These are
									the damp sandy or muddy banks of ponds, lakes and streams, where from midsummer to
									late autumn it is found by hundreds, usually in company with Galgulus
										oculatus and other semi-aquatic insects. Its modest hues agree admirably
									with such surroundings, thus furnishing the insect valuable protection against its
									foes. When disturbed it more often flies than leaps, its flight being more
									prolonged than that of any other of the Indiana Tetrigians, and often alights upon
									the water, where it swims with ease, its dilated hind tibiæ being then of much aid
									to its onward progress. Morse (1894a, 164) states that it is common
									at Ithaca, New York, "along the stony margins of the creeks and exactly matches in
									tint the fragments of slate-gray shale on which it delights to sun itself,
									becoming in consequence  almost invisible on
									alighting." The short-winged form appears to be very scarce, Morse (1907,
										26) recording three from Gulfport, Miss., where they were found near a
									spring on the edge of the sea beach.
								P. texanus
									Hancock (1902, 113) I regard as an absolute synonym of cucullatus. In his key he separates texanus only by the
									"stouter middle femora with inferior margin decidedly undulate," while in his
									description he gives no additional characters which will not apply to cucullatus. Certain it is that the specimens in my collection from Texas,
									Mississippi and Arkansas, which were named texanus for me by
									Hancock, and which should represent that species as far as locality goes, cannot
									be separated from Indiana cucullatus, since the lower margin of
									middle femora in the latter species varies from decidedly undulate to almost
									entire.

								
									74. PARATETTIX TOLTECUS
										(Saussure), 1861, 401. Toltecan Grouse Locust.

									A short, rather broad form differing from cucullatus by
										characters given in key and by having the median carina of vertex distinct on
										front portion, the concavity each side deeper; branches of frontal costa more
										widely separated; pronotum more rugose, its median and anterior carinæ higher;
										tegminal sinus very shallow, the lobe beneath it shorter, much less rounded.
										Middle femora shorter with strongly compressed margins, the lower one strongly
										lobed behind the middle. Length of body, ♂, 8, ♀, 10; of pronotum, ♂, 6, ♀, 7;
										of hind femora, ♂, 5, ♀, 6 mm.
								

								This species is in the Philadelphia collections from Homestead and Grand Ridge,
									Fla. These are the only stations at which it has been taken east of the
									Mississippi, it being a Mexican species but known in the United States from
									Arizona, California, New Mexico, Colorado and Nebraska. At Santa Fe and Las Vegas,
									New Mexico, it was taken by R. & H. in wet grassy places along the borders of
									streams and at Tucson, Arizona, was found 3,876 feet above tide. Specimens in my
									collection from Bill William's Fork, Arizona, resemble nymphs of cucullatus in their short, squat form, but are stouter and easily
									separated by the characters above given. A long form from Mexico has been named
										sonorensis by Hancock (1902, 121). A supposed
									long form, P. toltecus extensus
									Morse (1899, 198), described from Arizona and California, is treated
									by Hancock (1902, 117) as the long form of a new species described by
									him as P. morsei
									(loc. cit. 119). If this be true, Morse's name extensus has priority over the name morsei which
									represents the short form.
							

							

							
								V. APOTETTIX
									Hancock, 1902, 99. (Gr., "separate" + Tettix.)

								Rather slender, medium sized species having the head covered by the pronotum to
									the eyes; antennæ stouter than in Paratettix; eyes smaller,
									globose; vertex as described in generic key, its "front border formed of little
									concave carinæ, lying each side of the midcarina, and which are elevated and
									flexed backwards at the inner side of anterior half of the eyes," its dorsal
									surface appreciably wider behind; frontal costa rather widely and shallowly
									sulcate, strongly advanced in front of eyes and convex between the bases of
									antennæ; pronotum as in Paratettix, its median carina more
									distinct than in P. cucullatus. Other characters as given in
									key. Six species are recognized from the American Continent by Hancock
										(1906, 64), one of which occurs in our territory.

								
									75. APOTETTIX RUGOSUS
										(Scudder), 1862, 476. Rough-backed Grouse Locust.

									Rather slender, the pronotum strongly tapering behind. Fuscous, dark brown
										or dark gray, usually nearly uniform, rarely with a broad white blotch across
										the shoulders of pronotum; hind femora in part paler. Vertex as wide as or
										slightly wider than one of the eyes in male, one-third to one-half wider in
										female, disc deeply concave each side of median carina. Pronotum with front
										margin truncate, hind portion strongly attenuate, dorsal surface with numerous
										rounded and oblong tubercles; median carina interrupted or wanting between the
										shoulders, rather strongly elevated and slightly curved in front of them;
										humeral angles obtuse; lateral lobes with hind margin strongly bisinuate;
										tegminal sinus wide, shallow; lower one narrow, much deeper, the lobe between
										them rounded. Tegmina elongate-oval, their tips obliquely rounded; wings passing
										the apex of pronotum. Middle femora undulate beneath; hind ones rather slender,
										their outer surface strongly rugose. Sub-anal plate of male acutely notched at
										tip. Length of body, ♂, 8--10, ♀, 10--12; of pronotum, ♂, 11--13.3, ♀, 13--15.6;
										of hind femora, ♂, 5--5.5, ♀, 6--6.5 mm.
								

								Ormond, Sarasota, LaBelle, Moore Haven and Dunedin, Fla., Dec. 1--April 10 (W. S. B.) ; common at Dunedin along the mucky margins of recently
									drained ponds, where they are usually taken by sweeping. When flushed they make
									one or two strong flights, sometimes for a distance of 40 feet, then squat close
									to the surface, and if carefully marked down can be readily picked up with the
									fingers. Two of the Dunedin females have a broad white saddle-shaped spot on
									pronotum and a pale stripe along the middle of hind femora. At Ormond it was
									frequent in damp places along roadsides and about the borders of low, cultivated
									grounds. Recorded also by Scudder from Fort Reed and by Davis and R. & H. from
									numerous localities from Jacksonville and Cedar Keys south  to Miami and Punta Gorda, and probably occurs everywhere throughout
									peninsular Florida. North of that State it is definitely known only from Tybee and
									St. Simon's Islands, Ga., though Bruner has recorded it from Nebraska and Bolivar
									from Mexico. No examples of a short-winged form have as yet been noted.
							
						

						
							Subfamily II. BATRACHIDINÆ.

							The members of this subfamily are distinguished mainly by the characters given in
								the key, p. 153. In addition they have the size large and form robust for the
								family; frontal costa narrow, its ridges obtuse, subcontiguous, subparallel and
								continuous with the median carina of vertex; eyes large, oval or subtriangular, not
								strongly convex, their upper inner border encroached upon by a small crescentic lobe
								of the vertex; antennæ inserted between the lower halves of eyes; pronotum strongly
								tectiform, usually with more or less obvious lengthwise rugæ, its median ridge never
								strongly carinate or cristate; first joint of hind tarsi not longer than third. Two
								genera are represented in the Eastern States.

							
								KEY TO EASTERN GENERA OF BATRACHIDINÆ.

								a. Body robust, subglobose (Fig. 64.); lateral carinæ in front of
									shoulders wanting; pronotum convex above, feeble punctate. I.
											PAXILLA.
								aa. Body narrower, more slender (Fig. 66); lateral carinæ present;
									pronotum between the carinæ more or less concave and rugose, granulose or
									wrinkled. II. TETTIGIDEA.
							

							
								I. PAXILLA
									Bolivar, 1887, 294. (Lat., "A small peg.")

								Form robust, compressed. Head broad; vertex short, curved in front, transversely
									carinate each side, disc with a prominent lengthwise median carina projecting in
									front of eyes and rounded into the frontal costa, the latter narrowly sulcate
									above the median ocellus; antennæ 22-jointed; eyes rather small, subtriangular,
									the apex above; pronotum compressed, its front margin acute-angulate, extending
									over head to median carina of vertex; posteriorly subacute, its apex reaching end
									of abdomen, male, base of ovipositor, female, falling short of tips of hind femora
									in both sexes; tegmina narrow; wings abbreviated; hind femora rather stout, broad;
									hind tibiæ with numerous spines; first joint of hind tarsi sulcate above, as long
									as the next two united. One species only is known.

								
									76. PAXILLA OBESA
										(Scudder), 1877b, 34. Obese Grouse Locust.

									Chocolate-brown, shining; the dorsal surface and lower third of lateral
										lobes of pronotum and lower part of face often pale brown. Pronotum  with median carina, viewed from the side, broadly
										arched, highest between the shoulders; surface rather coarsely and sparsely
										punctate, often finely rugose in front of shoulders; hind margin of lateral
										lobes bisinuate, tegminal sinus small, shallow, lower one broadly concave, the
										lobe between them short, broadly rounded. Tegmine almost smooth. Outer face of
										hind femora with numerous fine scattered granules or scales. Length of body, ♂,
										9--10.5, ♀, 12--14.5; of pronotum, ♂, 8--9.2, ♀, 11--12; of hind femora, ♂,
										5.5--6.7, ♀, 7--8.5 mm. (Fig 64.)
								

								Hastings, Fla., Sept. 30 (Morse) ; Mobile and Delchamps, Ala.
										(Loding). A southern species, originally described from
									Georgia and ranging from Newbern, N. Car., to southern Florida and Mobile, Ala. In
									Florida it has been recorded from De Funiak Springs, Jacksonville, Gainesville,
									Port Orange, Hastings, Homestead and Detroit, April--October. At the last two
									localities R. & H. found it "in the low undergrowth of pine woods in not the
									usual very wet situations," while at Newbern, N. Car., it was taken by them "in a
									wet meadow in company with Clinocephalus elegans and Melanoplus decorous." It seems to be widely scattered and scarce
									throughout its range, not over half a dozen specimens being recorded from any one
									locality, except Holnerville, Ga., and Hastings, Fla., where it was found in some
									numbers in "low, blackish, water-soaked ground covered with low bog plants
									(sun-dews, pitcher plants, etc.) in pine woods."
								
									Fig. 64. Female X 3. (After Hancock.)
								
							

							
								II. TETTIGIDEA
									Scudder, 1862, 476. (Gr., "grasshopper.")

								Species of robust form, having the head larger and face less oblique than in
									preceding genera; vertex equal to or much exceeding the width of one of the eyes,
									carinate at middle, the front border more or less rounded, sides concave; frontal
									costa strongly advanced in front of eyes, continuous with median carina of vertex,
									in front narrowly sulcate; antennæ stout, 22-jointed; pronotum with front dorsal
									margin either rounded, angulate, acute or cuspidate, more or less projected
									forward onto the head; posterior process either attenuate and passing tips of hind
									femora or acute and shorter; dorsal surface finely granulate and usually more or
									less rugose lengthwise, its median carina distinct but not prominent; lower
									posterior angle of lateral lobes much smaller than in  preceding genera; tegmina elongate, narrow, often with a pale spot near apex;
									wings in the long forms passing tips of pronotum; first and third joints of hind
									tarsi either subequal in length or the first slightly the longer. Males much more
									slender than females, and as both pronotum and wings vary much in length in the
									same species, much confusion of synonymy has resulted.

								
									Fig. 65. Showing form of vertex and front margin of pronotum of Tettigidea. a, T. prorsa Scudd.; b, T. armata Morse;
											c, T. lateralis (Say). All greatly enlarged. (After
										Hancock.)
								

								
									KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF TETTIGIDEA.

									a. Front dorsal margin of pronotum obtusely angulate or rounded, feebly
										prolonged over the head, seldom reaching and never extending beyond the middle
										of eyes (Fig. 65, c.)
									b. Visible portion of vertex scarcely longer than wide, its front margin
										rounded, not distinctly produced in front of eyes; head wide, not
										subconical.
									c. Antennæ slender, filiform, the joints of middle third at least three
										times as long as broad; eyes prominent; front margin of pronotum usually broadly
										rounded (Fig. 65, c.); frontal costa more slender. 77. LATERALIS.
									cc. Antennæ stouter, the joints qf middle third distinctly flattened and
										not more than twice as long as broad; eyes smaller; front margin of pronotum
										usually obtusely angulate (Pl. II. Fig. 5); frontal costa stouter, more
										prominent. 77a. PARVIPENNIS.
									bb. Visible portion of vertex distinctly longer than wide, its front
										margin obtusely angulate and projecting in front of eyes, its sides widely
										emarginate, the concavity forming a regular curve about the contour of the eyes;
										head narrow, subconical. (Fig. 65, a.) 78.
												PRORSA.
									aa. Front dorsal margin of pronotum produced on the head and between the
										eyes often nearly to their front in the form of an acute angle or sharp cusp
										(Fig. 65, b.)
									d. Median carina of vertex but little projecting beyond the eyes;
										pronotum broad across the shoulders, its dorsal surface strongly rugose or
										wrinkled, its median and lateral caring well developed. 79. ARMATA.
									dd. Median carina of vertex more projecting; pronotum narrow across the
										shoulders, its dorsal surface finely wrinkled, its carinæ but slightly
										developed. 79a. SPICATA.
								


								

								
									77. TETTIGIDEA LATERALIS
										(Say), 1824, 10. Black-sided Grouse Locust.

									Rather robust; pronotum in long form strongly attenuate behind, especially
										so in males. Color above grayish, light brown or fuscous, sides blackish;
										tegmina with a small white spot near tips, hind femora often with pale spots or
										bands; male with lower part of face, mouth parts and lower third of lateral
										lobes of pronotum ivory white. Vertex about as wide as one of the eyes, male,
										one-half wider, female, feebly projecting in front of eyes, its sides strongly
										concave; median carina distinct but low on front half. Pronotum granulate and
										with distinct branching lengthwise rugæ; its process in long form slightly
										surpassing tips of hind femora, in short one reaching only to tip of abdomen;
										median carina low but distinct throughout; humeral angles scarcely evident;
										lateral lobes distinctly bisinuate behind, the tegminal sinus deeper and more
										narrow than the lower one, the lobe between them short, rounded, the lower
										posterior lobe acute. Tegmina elongate, their tips obliquely rounded; wings in
										long form surpassing the tip of pronotum 1 to 2 mm., in short one not reaching
										it. Femora with margins entire, hind ones rather stout, their outer surface
										granulate and with faint oblique ridges. Length of body, ♂, 10--13, ♀, 12--17;
										of pronotum, ♂, 9--10, ♀, 10--14; of hind femora, ♂, 5--6, ♀, 6.5--7.5 mm. (Fig.
										66.)
								

								Southern half of Indiana, common, April--December; not recognized north of Marion
									and Putnam counties. Recorded also from numerous localities throughout Florida and
									probably the most abundant grouse locust in the State, though apparently less
									common in its southern third. All specimens taken by me in Florida or recorded
									from there are of the long form, as are the great majority of those seen from
									Indiana, and R. & H. (1916, 151) state that 90.6 per cent. of the
									specimens in their extensive collections are of this form, but that material taken
									near streams or in swampy places in heavy forest show a strong predominance of the
									abbreviate form.
								
									Fig. 66. Female X 2.2 form. (After Lugger.)
								
								About Dunedin T. lateralis occurs in numbers along the sandy
									margins of ponds and lakes, usually in company with Nomotettix
										cristatus floridanus and Apotettix rugosus, and also less
									commonly in open places in pine woods, while in Indiana its habitats are the same
									as those of its variety parvipennis, described below.
										Caudell (1905, 216) states that a specimen taken by him at Sanford,
									Fla., "jumped into a shallow pool of water in its efforts to escape, and when I
									attempted to pick it up it deliberately dove to a blade of grass fully an inch
									below the surface of the water, where it remained grasping the stem with its legs
									for several seconds."


								

								T. lateralis ranges from New Jersey and central Indiana west
									and south to Florida, Louisiana, Oklahoma and New Mexico, and is said by
										Rehn (1909, 201) to occur "all over the Island of Cuba." Tetrix polymorpha
									Burmeister (1838, 659) is a name given to the short form while Tettigidea medialis
									Hancock (1902, 152) is an intermediate form connecting typical lateralis with its northern race parvipennis.
								An examination of the type of Tettigidea acuta
									Morse (1895, 15) leads me to place it as a form representing an
									individual variation of T. lateralis. It is, as it were, a sort
									of connecting link between lateralis and armata, being lateralis with a short, acute projection
									of front margin of pronotum and armata with shorter cusp than
									usual and a more convex pronotum. It is known only from three females in the
									Cambridge collection in New York and one in the Hebard collection taken by Davis
									on Staten Island.

								
									77a. TETTIGIDEA LATERALIS PARVIPENNIS
										(Harris), 1841, 152. Sedge Grouse Locust.

									This, the northern race of lateralis, differs from the
										typical form mainly by the characters given in the key. In general the body is
										more robust, the humeral angles more pronounced and the outline of the dorsal
										surface of pronotum more irregular in front of the shoulders. The shorter,
										stouter joints of the antennæ, less prominent eyes, and the usually more
										distinct angulation of the front border of the pronotum (Pl. II, Fig. 5.) in parvipennis are the most obvious characters separating the two
										forms. In color they are alike, while in Indiana specimens the pronotum is more
										strongly rugose than in lateralis. The measurements are
										approximately the same, those of the short form, or typical parvipennis, being slightly less than those of the corresponding form of
											lateralis.
								

								T. parvipennis is a very common grouse locust throughout
									northern Indiana, frequenting dry upland woods, fence rows, and low marshy tracts;
									but in the southern portion it is largely replaced by lateralis.
									Its mating season appears to be the whole year round, as I have taken specimens in
									copulation in nearly every month, even on sunny days in mid-winter. It hibernates
									usually in small colonies or groups--as many as eleven having been found huddled
									together within the space of a few square inches on the under side of a log or
									chunk. Walker has found it hibernating in a beetle-boring in a log, the hole being
									completely hidden by the bark. The general color of the pronotum varies greatly in
									different examples, each insect seemingly seeking that local habitat which
									corresponds closely to its hue.
								It ranges throughout the Transition and Upper Austral life  zones of the eastern United States, occurring generally in Ontario and
									New England, and at least as far south as Ocean City, N. J., thence west to Iowa
									and Minnesota, its southern range overlapping that of lateralis
									in the lower portion of the Upper Austral zone. R. & H. (1916,
										151) state that intermediate forms connecting the two races occur in the
									pine barrens and adjacent coastal strip of New Jersey, in Delaware, Maryland and
									northern Virginia, southern Illinois, Missouri, Tennessee and northern Georgia,
									Hancock's medialis being based on such connecting forms. In Iowa
										parvipennis is said by Ball (1897, 238) "to be
									abundant in low timberland where the undergrowth is short."
								Hancock (1902, 149) gives an interesting account of the color phases
									of parvipennis as noted near Twin Lakes, Wis., stating that they
									were "amazingly variable but the hue of every insect was perfectly in keeping,
									with the environment. Here one would be on the lichens, another on the swamp
									grass, and still others on the black muck, and yet all, generally speaking,
									accorded with the surroundings. The dried specimens have since changed so that
									whole rows of specimens which, when fresh, presented the prettiest variations, now
									present a dark uninteresting hue." He also describes (1894, 483) a migration in
									September, 1893, when the long-winged form of parvipennis was
									present in great numbers in the city of Chicago, and Rehn (1902c)
									mentions a similar flight as occurring in Philadelphia in September of that year.
									The long form of parvipennis described by Morse (1895,
										109) under the name pennata is more common in Indiana
									than the typical short one described by Harris, and Ball states that in Iowa pennata is much the more abundant, but Morse (1894a,
										166) says that in New England the short form is about three times as
									common as the long one.

								
									78. TETTIGIDEA PRORSA
										Scudder, 1877b, 34. Cone-headed Grouse Locust.

									Form rather slender, face strongly oblique. Dark brown, the dorsal surface
										of pronotum often paler than the lateral lobes; male with face and lower portion
										of lateral lobes usually dull yellow; antennæ yellowish, darker toward tips.
										Vertex as described in key, its median carina low, blunt, continuous with the
										frontal costa, their point of union, viewed in profile, obtuse-angulate, the
										costa prominent between the antennæ, narrowly sulcate. Pronotum with dorsal
										surface evenly granulate and with feeble longitudinal rugæ between the
										shoulders; front margin broadly rounded; posterior process in the more common
										short form reaching only to base of ovipositor, female, its apex rather broad,
										obtuse; in long form surpassing tips of hind femora; median carina low but
										distinct; tegminal sinus narrow, shallow, lower one a broad, shallow concavity,
										the lobe  between them very short. Tegmina
										elongate, narrow. Wings no longer than pronotum, short form; extending 1 to 2
										mm. beyond its tip, long form. Length of body, ♂, 8.5--10.8, ♀, 11--13.2; of
										pronotum, ♂, 7.5--8.6, ♀, 9--10.5; of hind femora, ♂, 5, ♀, 7 mm.
								

								A very distinct and well marked species ranging from Beach Haven, N. J., through
									North and South Carolina to southern Georgia, its distribution being erratic and
									discontinuous. Morse (1904, 27) records it as occurring on wet ground
									near a stagnant pool at Denmark, S. Car.; while R. & H. state that it "prefers
									areas in pine woods of low black, water-soaked ground covered with low bog
									plants," though sometimes found in wet meadows in company with Tettigidea lateralis and Paxilla obesa. It appears to be
									a rare species wherever found, no more than three or four individuals being
									recorded from any one locality except at Homerville, Ga., and Yemassee, S. Car.,
									where 16 and 59 were respectively taken. To the long form the name elongata was given by Morse (1895, 16).

								
									79. TETTIGIDEA ARMATA
										Morse, 1895, 107. Armored Grouse Locust.

									Form usually longer and more robust than in T. lateralis,
										notably so in the females. Color dark gray or brown above, blackish on sides,
										the tegmina with a white spot on their apical third; hind femora usually more or
										less mottled with whitish on their outer face. Vertex but little projecting
										beyond front of eyes and scarcely wider than one of them; frontal costa, viewed
										from the side, prominent, its sulcus very narrow. Pronotum as described in key,
										its median carina distinct, sharp, nearly horizontal, its dorsal surface
										strongly roughened with rather long wrinkles, the sides in front of the
										shoulders a little excavated; hind margins of lateral. lobes strongly bisinuate,
										tegminal sinus deep, acute, lower one broad, shallow, the lobe between them
										short, rounded. Tegmina elongate-oval, their tips subacute. Wings in long form
										slightly surpassing the tip of pronotum, which extends 2 to 3.5 mm. beyond tips
										of hind femora; in short form the wings shorter than pronotum, the latter
										reaching only to base of ovipositor in female. Length of body, ♂, 8.5--12.8, ♀,
										11.5--17; of pronotum, ♂, 7.5--11.5, ♀, 11.5--16; of hind femora, ♂, 5.5--6, ♀,
										7--8 mm.
								

								This grouse locust occurs sparingly throughout Indiana, adults being found from
									April to November. Morse's types were taken by me in Vigo County, where it
									occurred in small numbers along the wooded margin of a large lowland pond. In the
									northern counties it frequents woods about the margins of lakes and is usually
									found closer to water than is T. lateralis. In Florida it has
									been definitely recorded only from Jacksonville, Monticello and Deep Lake,
									April--Oct. R. & H. (1916, 153) give its range as extending from
									"Staten Island, N. Y., south to extreme southern 
									Florida and westward as far as Riverside, Ill., Howe, Okla., and Dallas, Texas."
									They state that the short form (depressa Morse) is more common
									than the long one throughout its range, a condition not existing in Indiana, where
									the long one is much the more common. T. davisi
									Morse (1908, 25) is a synonym.

								
									79a. TETTIGIDEA ARMATA SPICATA
										Morse, 1895, 108. Spined Grouse Locust.

									"A small, slender, southern species, intermediate in structure of vertex
										between apiculata and armata, but more
										nearly allied to the latter. The vertex is more projecting than in armata, the body narrower across the shoulders, the lateral carinæ of
										pronotum but slightly developed, the median carina less distinct and the disc
										more finely rugulose. Length of body, ♂, 11.6, ♀, 15.6--16.2; of pronotum, ♂,
										10.5, ♀, 14.4; of hind femora, ♂, 5.5, ♀, 7.6 mm." (Morse).
								

								The above is the original description of T. spicata, which was
									described from one male from Georgia and two females from Florida. Specimens taken
									by me in Knox and Posey counties, Ind., and named spicata by
									Hancock, and others taken and so named by Davis from Wilmington, N. Car., and Lake
									Okeechobee, Fla., and by Hancock from Opelousas, La., are at hand, and a careful
									comparison shows that the vertex proper is not more projecting but the point of
									union of its median carina with the frontal costa is slightly more prominent. As
									pointed out by R. & H., "the more arcuate character of the dorsum of pronotum
									in transverse section between the humeral angles is one of the most apparent
									characters" distinguishing spicata from typical armata. These differences, however, are of less systematic value than
									those separating lateralis from its northern race parvipennis, and I therefore regard spicata as only a
									slender-bodied southern race or form of armata. In addition to
									the localities above given T. a. spicata has been taken by me at
									Ormond, Fla., and is recorded from numerous localities between Jacksonville, Miami
									and Everglade in that State, occurring for the most part in low moist spots in
									pine woods and in bare spots along the edges of red mangrove swamps. It is known
									also from Georgia, Alabama and Louisiana.
								A study of the type of T. apiculata
									Morse (1895, 16) described from New Orleans, La., shows it to be very
									closely related to both armata and its race spicata, and a large series would perhaps show that spicata is only an intermediate or connecting link between the other two,
									and that all three are in reality but one species, which will have to bear the
									name apiculata, since that form was described in March, the
									others in September of the same year. I might add that aside from the prolongation
									of the front margin  of pronotum into a cuspidate
									point, which R. & H. (1916, 152) show to be a variable character,
									there is little to separate T. armata from T.
										lateralis and time may prove that the two species of Tettigidea recognized
									by Say and Scudder, viz., lateralis and prorsa, are all that really occur east of the Mississippi River.
							
						
					

					
						Family VI. ACRIDIDÆ.37 THE LOCUSTS OR SHORT-HORNED GRASSHOPPERS.

						To this family of saltatorial Orthoptera belong those short-horned grasshoppers or
							locusts which are so common in our meadows and pastures and along our roadsides from
							mid-April until after the heavy frosts of late autumn. They have the antennæ, with few
							exceptions, much shorter than body, filiform, clubbed or ensiform in shape, the joints
							distinct, and often, especially toward the base, depressed; head usually short, and in
							the leading subfamilies extended horizontally; ocelli always present, and foveolæ
							usually so; pronotum variable in form and size, forming a buckler or saddle-shaped
							shield covering the three segments of thorax; tegmina and wings, when present and in
							repose, resting partly horizontal on the dorsal surface of abdomen and partly reflexed
							against its sides; auditory or hearing organ located on the side of the basal ring of
							abdomen; front and middle legs subequal in size, much smaller and shorter than the
							hind ones, the femora of the latter being, as in the other saltatoria, very much
							enlarged in their basal halves; tarsi 3-jointed and similar in structure on all the
							legs, the first joint, usually the longest, with the under side marked with two cross
							impressions which, when viewed from below, make it appear to be composed of three
							segments; third or apical segment of tarsus ending in a pair of curved claws which
							enable the insect to catch and cling to blades of grass and other objects on which it
							may alight, these claws with a pad (arolium) between them; ovipositor consisting of
							four short, horny pieces, the so-called valves, projecting from the tip of the
							abdomen, two of which curve upward and two downward.
						The family name Acrididæ is derived from the Latin Acridium meaning
							"a locust" and to the people of ancient times the "grasshopper" of to-day was the
							"locust," one of the seven plagues of Egypt. The scientific men of this country have
							long endeavored to have our American Acridians called "locusts" but the majority of
							the people persist in calling them "grasshoppers," and give the name "locust" to those
							noisy insects which once each seventeen 37Locustidæ of Kirby (1910) and recent
								authors.
							 years invade our fields and forests in such countless
							numbers. The name "jumping grasshoppers" is also sometimes given our Acrididæ to
							distinguish them from the "green" or "long-horned" grasshoppers belonging to the
							genera Orchelimum and Conocephalus of the family
							Tettigoniidæ. Latreille (1831, 15), in comparing the Acrididæ with the
							other families of Saltatoria says of the former: "They leap better, fly higher and
							longer, and feed voraciously on vegetables."
						
							Fig. 67. Inside of hind femora of a locust; s. ridge with
								teeth.
						
						The call notes made by the males of the Acrididæ are produced in two ways and in the
							daytime only. One group, whose members call only when at rest, stridulate by rubbing
							the inner surface of the hind femur against the lower outer edge of the tegmina.
							Landois has shown that in this group the inner surface of the femur is furnished along
							the lower margin with a longitudinal row of minute, lancet-shaped, elastic teeth,
							ranging in number from 85 to 93, which are scraped across the edge of the tegmina,
							thus causing them to vibrate and produce a low, buzzing sound (Figs. 67, 68). Those
							Acrididæ which stridulate in this manner are mostly members of the subfamilies
							Tryxalinæ and Locustinæ. Allard (1916) says that "at best their
							stridulations are hardly more than a brief lisping or a noisy crepitation," and states
							that the notes of two of the Tryxalinæ, Chorthippus curtipennis
							(Harr.) and Eritettix simplex (Scudd.) are produced by "sawing both
							thighs simultaneously upon the edges of the tegmina." In the genus Mecostethus the teeth are borne on the intercalary vein of the tegmina and
							some of its branches, the ridge of the femur being smooth.
						
							Fig. 68. Ridge and teeth of hind femur greatly enlarged. (After Landois.)
						
						The members of the subfamily Oedipodinæ usually sound their call during flight by
							rubbing together the upper surface of the front edge of the wings and the under
							surface of the tegmina, thus producing a sharp, crackling sound which has been likened
							to that of burning stubble. However, some of the Oedipodinæ stridulate at rest as well
							as during flight. Thus says Scudder (1893, 63) "Acridians shuffle, rustle
							and crackle, while crickets shrill and creak and Locustarians scratch and scrape." By
							paying close attention, the observer can soon learn to know each species by its  peculiar call. Like the other families of saltatorial
							Orthoptera, the males alone of the Acrididæ have musical organs, which is quite the
							reverse among some animals higher in the scale of life, where the females make most of
							the music and oftentimes much of the noise.

						
							
								"Happy the locusts' lives,
								Since they all have noiseless wives."
							
						
						
							Fig. 69. Locust in the act of laying eggs. (After Riley.)
						

						The great majority of Acrididæ in the latitude of Indiana pass the winter in the egg
							stage, the eggs being deposited by the mother insect in early autumn. When ready to
							oviposit she forms a hole in the ground or other nidus to a depth corresponding to the
							length of her abdomen. The eggs are then deposited one at a time to the number of 30
							to 60, being placed in regular order in this hole. During the process a glutinous
							fluid is emitted around them which at length hardens and binds them together, thus
							forming a bean-shaped mass. The hole above the mass is then closed with dirt
							intermixed with this fluid which, when it hardens, renders it partially impervious to
							water. However, if the winter is an open one with numerous changes of temperature,
							many of the eggs are apt to be destroyed. By far the larger number of eggs are
							deposited in the earth in the manner shown in Figs. 69 and 70. A few species, however,
							oviposit in rotten or decaying wood. About mid-April the eggs begin to hatch and the
							sprightly little insects, devoid of wings but otherwise like their parents, are soon
							seen on every hand.
						
							Fig. 70. Egg mass of locust. a, from the side, within burrow; b, from beneath; c, from above; enlarged. (After
								Riley.)
						


						

						Born with one earthly desire--a voracious appetite--and with one valuable
							possession--a pair of strong, broad jaws, which move in and out like the blades of a
							pair of scissors--the little hopper soon begins to use the latter to appease the
							former, and during his early life spends most of his time in gnawing away at the soft,
							green succulent grass which surrounds him on every side. Such a procedure can have but
							one result. His body soon becomes too big for its surroundings: Something must give
							way, and that something is his skin. He casts it aside, however, with but little
							reluctance, for a new one is ready to take its place, and immediately begins to
							satiate his appetite once more. Five successive times his skin gets too small for his
							body and is cast aside. Between each of these moults the wings are growing, and when
							the fifth skin is shed he emerges a mature and full fledged insect.
						
							Fig. 71. Molting of a locust, a, nymph ready to change; b, the skin split along the back and the adult emerging; c, continues the process; d, the adult insect
								drying out; e, perfect adult. (After Riley.)
						
						However, all locusts do not pass the winter in the egg stage. In the southern States,
							especially in Florida, the adults of a number of species can be taken almost any time
							between November and March if one will only search for them in the proper places.
							During the seven winters spent by the writer in central-western Florida the adults of
							30 species of the family Acrididæ have been secured, some of them being very abundant
							in their favorite abiding places. A number of others winter there as nymphs, and in
							Indiana and other northern states three or four species hatch in early autumn and the
							young in various stages can, in suitable localities, be seen jumping vigorously about
							on any warm sunny day in mid-winter. If their presence at such a season comes to the
							attention of a newspaper reporter, the press of the entire region is apt to teem with
							warnings of a coming "grasshopper  plague," of which the
							youngsters are thought to be the advance guard. These hibernating young are the first
							to reach maturity the next spring, in Indiana usually becoming full grown about the
							20th of April.
						In the latitude of central Indiana the heyday of the mature locust's life lies
							between the dates of mid-August and mid-October. Then it is that their love calls are
							most numerous, that their ambitions in life are satisfied, and that the eggs, destined
							to carry the race through the rigors of an approaching winter, are deposited in the
							earth. As the cooler days of November draw nigh their ranks grow rapidly less, and
							yet, with the exception of one place, their dead bodies are seldom met with. That
							exception is the tops of tall weeds where, oftentimes even so early as September, the
							bodies of the more common species are seen (Fig. 15), their limbs tightly grasping the
							branches or leaves of the plant on which they rest. Why this position is taken by them
							before death I cannot say. Of course it is nonsense, but I have often asked myself the
							question: "Is it assuming too much of them to suppose that, having lived their
							allotted time, or being preyed upon by some invisible but insidious animal or plant
							parasite, and feeling their death throes coming on, they choose to fly or climb to the
							most elevated position available, there to take a farewell view of their summer's
							home?"
						A number of species of Acrididæ, especially of those belonging to the genus Melanoplus, possess, in the adult stage, only rudimentary tegmina and
							wings, and resemble immature insects or nymphs in appearance. A close examination will
							show, however, that these adults have the tegmina in the proper position, while in the
							immature stages of these and other forms, the tegmina and wings are inverted, being
							twisted about so that the faces and margins are just the opposite to what they are in
							the perfect insect.
						About 140 species of the family Acrididæ are known from the eastern United States.
							These are divided among three subfamilies, each of which is represented in our eastern
							fauna by numerous species.

						
							KEY TO THE SUBFAMILIES OF ACRIDIDÆ.

							a. Prosternum without a spine or tubercle between the front pair of
								legs.
							b. Face more or less oblique, usually meeting the vertex at an acute angle;
								foveolæ usually absent or invisible from above; median caring of pronotum never
								raised in the form of a crest or cut by more than one sulcus; wings nearly uniformly
								transparent,  never brightly colored or with a black
								band. I. TRYXALINE, p. 192.
							bb. Face nearly or quite vertical and rounded at its junction with the
								vertex; foveolæ present and visible from above; median carina of pronotum often more
								or less crested and usually cut by more than one sulcus; wings usually bright
								colored and generally with a black band. II. OEDIPODINÆ, p. 243.
							aa. Prosternum armed between the front legs with a distinct conical or
								cylindrical tubercle; face vertical or nearly so; pronotum with dorsal surface
								flattened, never strongly crested, tuberculate or rugose; wings, when present,
								transparent, never with contrasting colors. III. LOCUSTINÆ, p. 302.
						

						
							Subfamily I. TRYXALINÆ. (ACRIDINÆ.) THE SLANT-FACED LOCUSTS.

							The members of this subfamily have the vertex horizontal or a little ascending;
								face usually decidedly oblique and meeting the vertex at an acute angle; lateral
								foveolæ sometimes present and well developed, in most of our eastern genera absent
								or invisible from above; eyes usually longer than that portion of the cheeks below
								their orbits; antennæ variable, sometimes depressed toward base and acuminate,
								usually inserted between the middle or below the middle of eyes; pronotum with
								surface of dorsal field generally smooth, prozona not shorter than metazona, front
								and hind margins of nearly equal width, lateral caring usually distinct; tegmina and
								wings often short and imperfectly developed, long and short winged forms of the same
								species being not uncommon; tegmina with intercalary vein generally wanting, costal
								area often expanded and regularly reticulate by transverse veins.
							Certain forms of Tryxalinæ are very difficult to distinguish from some of the
								Oedipodinæ, and their reference to either group, as Brunner (1893, 103)
								has said, "est un peu arbitraire et repose sur l'estimation personelle"; i. e.,
								somewhat arbitrary and a matter of individual opinion. In general it may be said
								that the Tryxalinæ have more slender bodies than the Oedipodinæ, and often somewhat
								elongate, cone-shaped heads, recalling the Copiphorinæ of the Tettigoniidæ. The
								coloration is also more variable, there being often distinctly green and brown forms
								with all the intermediate tints in the same species. In our eastern species of
								Oedipodinæ this variation occurs only in the genus Chortophaga.
								This variation of coloration is used as a means of protection, often rendering the
								insect almost invisible when feeding. The hind legs are more slender than those of
								most of the Oedipodinæ and the  leaping power is
								therefore lessened; while in many of the smaller species the wing expanse is too
								small to admit of sustained flight.
							Our eastern members of Tryxalinæ for the most part frequent the borders of marshes
								and damp prairie meadows, making their home among the tall rank grasses and sedges
								which there abound. They usually move by flying, making no noise while on the wing.
								Several species, however, delight in sandy or clayey places, where clumps of bunch
								and wire grass furnish them protection and food. Their inner wings are never bright
								colored and showy as in the next subfamily, and their tegmina have, for the most
								part, remained a green or straw color in order to harmonize with their chosen
								abiding places. The males stridulate, or call the opposite sex to them, only when at
								rest by rubbing the inner surface of the hing thighs against the lower edges of the
								wing covers. No one of our species, unless it be Chorthippus
									curtipennis (Harr.), occurs in sufficient numbers to do much damage to
								vegetation, and some of them are among the least common of the Acrididæ. In Indiana
								and other northern states the winter of all is passed in the egg stage, but farther
								south, especially in Florida, adults of a half dozen or more species occur in
								numbers during that season.
							Aside from the general works on Orthoptera whose titles are given in the
								Bibliography, the following treat especially of North American Tryxalinæ:
									Scudder, 1890, 1898a, 1899, 1899a; Morse, 1896;
									McNeill, 1897; R. & H., 1916; Rehn,
									1919.
							Thirty-eight genera and 90 species of Tryxalinæ were listed by Scudder
									(1900) from the United States, mostly from the region west of the
								Mississippi, and a half dozen or more species have since been described. Of these 16
								genera and 26 species are known from the Eastern States, no fewer than 9 genera
								being represented by only a single species. For convenience of treatment the genera
								are grouped into five tribes distinguished as follows:

							
								KEY TO EASTERN TRIBES OF SUBFAMILY TRYXALINÆ.

								a. Antennæ ensiform or triquetrous, strongly depressed at base and
									distinctly acuminate (Fig. 72); median carina of pronotum cut much behind the
									middle; face very strongly oblique; lateral carinæ of pronotum straight and
									parallel, except in Mermiria. Tribe I. TRYXALINI, p. 194.
								aa. Antennæ linear or filiform, sometimes narrowly depressed toward base;
									median carina of pronotum usually cut at or not far behind the middle; lateral
									caring often more or less converging at middle.
								b. Foveolæ of vertex wanting or invisible from above; face usually
									distinctly oblique or declivent.



								

								c. Disk or scutellum of vertex with a distinct longitudinal median carina;
									antennæ usually more or less flattened but not strongly tapering. Tribe II. AMBLYTROPIDI, p. 207.
								cc. Disk of vertex without a median carina; antennæ filiform, rarely
									flattened, usually not longer than head and thorax together. Tribe III. ORPHULI, p. 222.
								bb. Foveolæ of vertex always present, visible from above (Fig. 84, c.) ;face usually nearly vertical.
								d. Median carina of pronotum not high and sharp and not cut in or in front
									of middle; intercalary vein of tegmina not very strong; vertex without a median
									carina, its lateral foveolæ large, distinct. Tribe IV. CHORTHIPPI, p. 233.
								dd. Median carina of pronotum high and sharp, cut in or in front of middle
									by the principal sulcus (Fig. 83, e, f, ); intercalary vein of
									tegmina very strong; vertex with a more or less distinct median carina, its
									foveolæ small, triangular and basal. Tribe V. MECOSTETHI, p. 238.
							

							
								Tribe I. TRYXALINI.

								Slender bodied grasshoppers having the sexes very unequal in size, the males much
									the smaller; head conical, horizontal or ascending, vertex distinctly produced in
									front of eyes, its apex more or less angulate; foveolæ wanting or indistinct; face
									strongly declivent; antennæ strongly triquetrous or ensiform, usually equal to
									head and pronotum in length, female, or longer, male; pronotum with median carina
									distinct, front margin truncate, lateral lobes vertical. The tribe, as thus
									defined, is represented in our territory by four genera.

								
									Fig. 72. Head and pronotum of Radinotatum showing ensiform
										antennæ, short wings, e t c. (After R.&H.)
								

								
									KEY TO EASTERN GENERA OF TRIBE TRYXALINI.

									a. Head distinctly longer than pronotum, strongly ascending; knees of
										hind femora with their apical angles strongly produced; spines of outer margin
										of hind tibiæ minute, about 25 in number; tegmina much shorter than abdomen.
										(Fig. 72.) I. RADINOTATUM.
									aa. Head sometimes equalling, never exceeding the pronotum in length,
										feebly ascending or subhorizontal; knees of hind femora with apical angles not
										produced but roundly deflexed; spines of outer margin of hind tibiæ stouter, not
										over 20 in number.
									b. Prosternum without a tubercle between the front coxæ; front half of
										lower margin of lateral lobes of pronotum strongly oblique; sides of fastigium
										strongly curved, its apex distinctly rounded. II. TRYXALIS.



									

									bb. Prosternum with a distinct tubercle or low transverse ridge between
										the front coxæ; lower margin of lateral lobe straight or feebly sinuate
										throughout its length; sides of fastigium straight or slightly curved, its apex
										usually feebly rounded or more or less acuminate.
									c. Vertex with a distinct median carina; tegmina and wings usually much
										shorter than the abdomen; outer carina of hind tibiæ with 14--17 spines; male
										with a stridulating rasp on hind femora; subgenital plate of male conical, more
										than twice as long as wide at base (Fig. 83, c.) ; sides of head and pronotum
										normally without a brown stripe. III. PSEUDOPOMALA.
									cc. Vertex at most with only a faint trace of a median carina; tegmina
										and wings reaching or exceeding tip of abdomen; outer carina of hind tibiæ with
										18--22 spines; male without stridulating rasp on hind femora; subgenital plate
										of male usually scarcely longer than wide at base; sides of head and pronotum
										with a reddish or dark-brown postocular stripe. IV. MERMIRIA.
								
							

							
								I. RADINOTATUM
									McNeill, 1897, 199. (Gr., "a very slender thing.")

								Form very slender, subcylindrical, compressed; head elongate, ascending; vertex
									projecting in front of eyes a distance equal to length of eyes, its sides broadly
									flattened, disk concave and with a long, distinct median carina, apex rounded or
									subangulate; face very strongly oblique, its frontal costa high and narrow between
									the antennæ, lower and somewhat wider below them, its sulcus distinct but shallow;
									eyes very long, their upper surface nearly horizontal; antennæ triquetrous,
									strongly tapering; pronotum much shorter than head, its carinæ distinct and
									parallel, lateral lobes vertical, their front margin strongly oblique, lower one
									nearly straight, hind one broadly emarginate; tegmina and wings rudimentary;
									subgenital plate of male longer than thorax, lanceolate, acute; hind femora very
									slender, shorter than abdomen, female, reaching base of subgenital plate, male,
									their knees with apical angles strongly produced, the outer projection the
									shorter. One species is known.
								
									Fig. 73. Male, X 1.5. (After R. & H.)
								

								
									80. RADINOTATUM BREVIPENNE
										(Thomas), 1873, 58. Long-headed Locust.

									Pale brown or grayish-brown, the upper surface, tegmina and legs often in
										part green. Antennæ slightly shorter than head and thorax, female,  equal to or slightly exceeding their length, male.
										Median carina of pronotum very feebly cut by the transverse carina one-fourth
										from base, the latter truncate or nearly so. Tegmina about as long as pronotum,
										very narrow, bluntly pointed, separated by twice their width. Length of body, ♂,
										31--36, ♀, 40--48; of head, ♂, 7, ♀, 8--9; of antennæ, ♂ and ♀, 9--11; of
										pronotum, ♂, 4--4.5, ♀, 5.5--6; of tegmina, ♂, 4.5--6, ♀, 5--6.5; of hind
										femora, ♂, 13.5--15, ♀, 17--19 mm. (Fig. 73.)
								

								This easily recognized locust occurs everywhere throughout the mainland of
									Florida on the wire grass and other undergrowth of open pine woods and among the
									tall grasses and sedges along the margins of ponds and lakes. In the northern and
									central parts of the State the majority of the eggs probably hatch in late summer
									and early autumn, as the most of those mentioned in the numerous records of Davis
									and R. & H., as noted at that season, are nymphs. About Dunedin the nymphs far
									outnumber the adults between November and February 1st. After that date the adults
									begin to be more plentiful and by April 15 the most of those noted are mature.
								In general appearance R. brevipenne is one of the most peculiar
									of our North American Acrididæ, its form and color serving it admirably for
									protection among the tall grasses and pine needles. The first specimens ever seen
									by me were taken near Ormond, Fla., in March, 1899, and my field notes regarding
									them were afterwards published (1902, 149) as follows: "The first mature males of
									the slender-bodied, grayish-brown locust, Radinotatum brevipenne
									(Thos.) were seen on March 22. To-day (April 5) the adult females are abundant. It
									is the most curious Orthopteron found here at this season and has been recorded
									only from one or two points in Florida. Here it is common on the clumps of wire
									grass, in sandy places along the edges of woodland paths and old fields. Its short
									wings prevent it from flying, and as it is but a poor leaper, it is readily taken
									with the fingers. It relies upon protective mimicry as its chief mode of defense;
									hence its organs of locomotion, wings and legs, have developed but little, the
									former being mere pads, the latter very slender and used mainly for walking and
									for clasping the stems of grass. The brown, linear body, when extended lengthwise
									along a dead grass stem, is scarcely noticeable, so closely does its hue
									correspond to that of the grass. The insect remains motionless until about to be
									seized, when it sometimes gives a short leap to one side."
								The known range of R. brevipenne extends from Yemassee, S.
									Car., Augusta and Macon, Ga., south throughout Florida, and as  far west as Greenville, Alabama, and Agricultural
									College, Miss. Kirby (1910, 101) gives "Florida and Mexico" as its
									habitat. I can find no other record of its having been found in the latter
									country.

								
									Fig. 74. Female. X 1.5. (After R. & H.)
								

								A so-called geographic race or subspecies of R. brevipenne was
									described by R. & H. (1912, 246) as R. b.
										peninsulare (Fig. 74), they stating that it differs from typical brevipenne "in the longer head with much more produced rostrum and
									more concave face, longer antennæ, pronotum with shallower lateral lobes, more
									linear and usually shorter tegmina, longer and more slender caudal femora and more
									delicate, shorter, genicular angles." All the distinctions as given are
									comparative only and may be found in any large series of specimens taken almost
									anywhere in Florida. They later (1914d, 103) state that two males and four females
									taken at Lakeland, Fla., "are absolutely intermediate between typical brevipenne and b. peninsulare in character."
									Notwithstanding this admission, they state in their latest mention of R. brevipenne (1916, 155) that "in central Florida the species intergrades
									with its geographic race R. brevipenne peninsulare." I have
									given above the distinctions of peninsulare as set forth by its
									authors in order that the future student may apply that name to his southern
									Florida specimens if he so desires.
							

							
								II. TRYXALIS
									Fabricius, 1775, 279. (Gr., Troxallis = Gryllus.)

								Vertex horizontal, semi-elliptical, projecting in front of eyes a distance about
									equal to that between them; disk with sides flattened, apex rounded, median carina
									very fine; antennæ flattened at base, acuminate, about as long as head and
									pronotum (Fig. 84, b); frontal costa with sides subparallel, shallowly sulcate,
									female, more deeply so, male; pronotum with disk flat, the three carinæ parallel,
									distinct, the median cut by one sulcus much behind the middle; lateral lobes
									vertical, parallel, slightly longer than high with front and hind margins oblique,
									the former  straight, the latter sinuate; tegmina
									and wings fully developed, subequal in length; hind femora slender, their tips
									reaching, female, or exceeding by nearly half their length, male, that of abdomen;
									subgenital plate of male conical, scarcely longer than wide at base, its apex
									acute (Fig. 83, d); ovipositor strongly exserted.
								But one species is known, the T. angusticornis
									Stil (1873, 105), described from South Carolina, being a synonym of
										Dichromorpha viridis (Scudd.).

								
									81. TRYXALIS BREVICORNIS
										(Linnaus), 1764, 398. Short-horned Locust.

									Form rather robust for the tribe, the males much the smaller, more
										compressed. Females dimorphic as to color, being either pale green with tegmina
										more or less dotted with brown, or with entire body nearly uniform rusty brown,
										often with a darker postocular line along head and upper sides of pronotum;
										males usually with dorsal surface, face and tibiæ of front and middle legs
										bright green, the other parts pale brown; wings transparent, the veins greenish.
										Pronotum with lateral caring slightly cut by all the transverse sulci, disk with
										hind margin feebly obtuse-angulate; metazona three-fourths as long as prozona,
										its surface rougher. Tegmina and wings more than one-third longer than abdomen,
										male, but slightly exceeding its tip, female. Length of body, ♂, 19--25, ♀,
										32--35; of antennæ, ♂ and ♀, 10--11; of pronotum, ♂, 4.5--5, ♀, 6--6.5; of
										tegmina, ♂, 20--21, ♀, 30--31; of hind femora, ♂, 14, ♀, 20 mm. (Fig.
										75.)
								
								
									Fig. 75. Female, natural size. (After Beutenmuller.)
								

								This curious long-headed locust occurs in suitable localities throughout Indiana.
									It frequents only the tall grasses and sedges along the margins of lakes, ponds,
									streams and swales, and in such localities is usually locally abundant. In central
									Indiana it reaches maturity about July 20, and in the northern part of the State a
									fortnight later. The hind legs are very slender as the insect seldom leaps when
									disturbed, but uses the wings in strong, zig-zag, noiseless flight, usually
									alighting on a stem of grass or sedge a dozen rods away. Frank Hay, of Bass Lake,
									Starke County, reported a flight of this species after dark on the evening of
									August 13. Large numbers flew onto his porch and against the house and many were
									captured and used for fish bait.


								

								Although Scudder in his Catalogue gives the range of T.
										brevicornis as "southern U. S.," it has been taken by Walker (1902a,
										251) as far north as Point Pelee, Ont., while Beutenmiiller (1894,
										291) has recorded it from Long Island, N. Y., and Smith from New Jersey,
									where it is found in both fresh and salt marsh areas, but more abundant in the
									latter. From the points mentioned its known range in this country extends west to
									eastern Nebraska and south and southwest to northern Florida, Mobile, Ala.,
									Franklin, La., and central Arkansas, the Nebraska and Arkansas records being the
									only ones from west of the Mississippi. East of that stream, from Illinois and
									Maryland to Florida, it appears to occur frequently in suitable localities,
									judging from the records of Morse (1904, 28) and R. & H.
										(1916, 155). In Florida, however, it seems to be quite scarce and no
									specimens have been taken by me though a male is at hand taken July 22 on the
									University grounds at Gainesville. The only localities recorded by others from the
									State are Atlantic Beach, Marianna, Monticello and Everglade. The single female
									taken at the last named place by Davis is said by R. & H. (1914d,
										104) to measure 39.4 mm. in length of body and to be the largest
									individual seen from any locality between New Jersey and Buenos Aires, Argentina,
									to which point the species ranges.
							

							
								III. PSEUDOPOMALA
									Morse, 1896, 325.

								Slender-bodied species having the head conical; vertex semi-elliptical,
									horizontal, female, slightly ascending, male, extending in front of eyes a
									distance equal to its basal width; disk with sides flattened, concave each side
									the distinct median carina, apex feebly obtusely rounded; frontal costa rather low
									and wide, narrowed above the antennæ, divergent below, widely and shallowly
									sulcate; antennæ strongly ensiform (Fig. 84, a), equalling,
									female, or one-half longer, male, than length of head and thorax; pronotum about
									one-fourth longer than head, tricarinate, the carinæ parallel, all cut by the
									principal sulcus distinctly behind the middle; lateral lobes vertical, their front
									margin straight, oblique, hind ones feebly concave; hind femora slender, subequal
									to or slightly shorter than abdomen in both sexes; ovipositor short, scarcely
									exserted, the lower valves furnished with a strong tooth each side.
								This genus, as founded by Morse, was placed in the subfamily Tryxalinæ. In this he was followed by McNeill (1897, 208).
									Scudder did not coincide with this placement, and (1899e) placed  it in the tribe Mesopes, which, in
									his Catalogue, is located near the beginning of the Acridinæ (Locustinæ). While
									the prosternum bears a tubercle, it is very short and obtuse, and the other
									characters are so decidedly those of the Tryxalinæ that I have no hesitancy in so
									placing it. But one species is known.

								
									82. PSEUDOPOMALA BRACHYPTERA
										(Scudder), 1862, 454. Bunch-grass Locust.

									Slender, strongly compressed. Above pale brown or drab, yellowish below;
										antennæ, hind tibiæ, knees and tibial spines with tips fuscous; tegmina and
										upper surface of head and pronotum often with small scattered fuscous dots.
										these sometimes merged to form a dark stripe along the side of head and
										pronotum. Disk of pronotum with hind margin truncate; metazona two-thirds as
										long as prozona, its surface finely rugose. Tegmina usually abbreviated, about
										three-fourths as long as hind femora, their tips sharply rounded, male, as long
										as head and thorax with tips acuminate, female; wings half as long as tegmina;
										both in occasional examples as long as hind femora and then with tips rounded in
										both sexes. Length of body, ♂, 23--27, ♀, 27--30; of head and pronotum, ♂,
										7.3--8.5, ♀, 9.5--11.5; of antennæ, ♂, 9.5--11.5, ♀, 8.5--10; of tegmina,
										short-winged, ♂, 9--12.5, ♀, 7--12; of tegmina, long-winged, ♂, 15.5--17, ♀,
										18--22; of hind femora, ♀, 13.5--15.5, ♀, 14--19 mm. (Fig. 76.)
								
								
									Fig. 76. Female. X 1.5. (After Lugger.)
								

								Sherborn, Mass., July 15 (Morse) ; Gardiner's Island, N. Y.,
									Aug. 23 (Davis). Of its habits Morse has written (1896, 382) as
									follows: "This peculiar locust is not uncommon locally on the coarser grasses
									found in waste lands, especially upon a species of bunch-grass (Andropogon scoparius Michx.) everywhere abundant. Though a good leaper and
									fairly active, it is not shy and seeks safety in attempting to escape observation
									by sidling around the grass stems rather than by active retreat. I once saw a
									long-winged female fly several feet, proving that with the possession of the means
									came the power of flying. Its sluggish habits, however, in connection with its
									linear form, render it less likely to attract the attention of its enemies, and to
									the biologist it is perhaps the most interesting of our New England locusts on
									that account. It must be seen in the living state to have its full beauty
									appreciated. The singular, almost grotesque, yet graceful form interests even the
									casual observer, and its coloration of lilaceous 
									drab, giving it almost the appearance of being clothed with a delicate bloom,
									pleases the most fastidious eye." Fox (1914, 486) states that inland
									in New Jersey and Pennsylvania it frequents dry scrubby areas, usually in sylvan
									surroundings, but along the coast it is partial to the fringes of marsh elder, Iva frutescens L., along the edge of the salt marshes. At Fern
									Hill, Pa., it was noted as exceptionally common on serpentine barrens.
								Scudder's type of P. brachyptera was from Princeton, Mass., and
									Morse states that it doubtless occurs throughout New England. Scudder (1900,
										46) gives its range as "Northern United States east of the Rocky
									Mountains"; but it is as yet not known from Indiana, and west of New England has
									been definitely recorded only from New York, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Michigan,
									Iowa, Nebraska, Minnesota and eastern Wyoming. In Nebraska Bruner mentions it
									(1893a) as "not at all rare over the entire State; most common eastward and
									northward." McNeill (1897, 210) gives its range as "Northern United
									States east of the Sierra Nevada Mountains," and adds: "Its distribution
									throughout the territory it inhabits is comparatively irregular. There is a gap in
									this range extending from Illinois to New York and Pennsylvania, but since it is
									found in New England and from Iowa to Utah, there is little doubt but that its
									non-occurrence in the intermediate area is due to the fact of its extreme rarity."
										R: & H. (1905) erroneously recorded it, on a specimen wrongly
									labelled, from Chokoloskee, Fla.
								Although the males of P. brachyptera have well developed
									stridulating organs the only record of their use which can be found is that given
									by Shull (1911). He states that adults were observed at Sand Point,
									Saginaw Bay, Mich., June 27-July 21, where they occurred in open woods, patches of
									tall grass, and on grassy sand dunes. "The males were often found in song,
									especially in the morning. They usually perched on some dead grass stem, drew up
									the tibiæ against the femora like a folding pocket-rule, and scraped the leg up
									and. down over the wing covers. The rate of stridulation varied from five and a
									half to nine double strokes (up and down) per second, and some twenty complete
									vibrations were made in succession, followed by a period of rest about half as
									long."
								The long-winged form, reversa Morse, is not rare in New
									England, and is known from Nebraska and Michigan. The Opomala
										aptera
									Scudder (1869, 305) described from a single  Pennsylvania female and otherwise unknown, is very probably a synonym
									of P. brachyptera. The description is based largely upon the
									color; the length being given as 35 mm., and that of the tegmina as 6 mm. The type
									is lost.
							

							
								IV. MERMIRIA
									Stål, 1873, 90, 102.

								Elongate, moderately slender species having the head slightly ascending, rather
									long, equalling or but slightly shorter than the length of pronotum; vertex
									horizontal, triangular or semi-elliptical, its sides distinctly raised, apex
									either rounded or more or less acute, median carina faint or wanting; face
									strongly oblique, more so in male, frontal costa prominent, parallel and deeply
									sulcate above the ocellus, sometimes more shallowly and slightly divergent below;
									antennæ strongly ensiform, equalling, female, or exceeding, male, the head and
									pronotum in length; pronotum long, with disk slightly tectiform, hind margin
									truncate, feebly rounded or slightly obtuse-angulate; lateral carinæ usually
									indistinct or wanting, median one cut by the principal sulcus much behind the
									middle; lateral lobes vertical and parallel, front and hind margins oblique, lower
									one slightly sinuate; tegmina and wings fully developed, equalling or slightly
									exceeding the tip of abdomen; hind femora long and slender; prosternum armed
									between the front femora with a small obtuse tubercle; subgenital plate of male
									conical, shorter than the preceding ventral segment; ovipositor small, short,
									feebly exserted.

								
									Fig. 77. Structures of Mermiria. a, Apex of
										abdomen of male of neomexicana; b, same of
											bivittata; c, dorsal view of pronotum of
											alacris; d, same of bivittata; e, dorsal view of fastigium of alacris; f, same of neomexicana; g, same of intertexta; h,
										same of bivittata. (After Rehn.)
								

								Seven North American species were recognized by Scudder (1899a, 41)
									; eight by Kirby (1910, 104), and six species and one variety or
									subspecies by Rehn (1919). Four species and one variety have been
									recorded from the Eastern States, but no one of them has as yet been taken in
									Indiana.


								

								
									KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF MERMIRIA.

									a. Lateral carinæ of pronotum distinct (Fig. 77, c.);
										head of female as long as or slightly longer than pronotum (Fig. 78, A.);
										subgenital plate of male strongly produced and acuminate (Fig. 77, a.)
									b. Fastigium triangular, its sides nearly straight and tip narrowly
										rounded (Fig. 77, e.); tegmina largely green; hind margin of
										pronotum slightly obtusely angulate or rounded.83. ALACRIS.
									bb. Fastigium semi-elliptical, the sides more strongly curved and tip
										broadly and bluntly rounded (Fig. 77, f.); tegmina usually
										transparent brown, the marginal field alone tinged with green; hind margin of
										pronotum subtruncate. 84. NEOMEXICANA.
									aa. aa. Lateral carinæ wholly wanting or (intertexta)
										feebly indicated (Fig. 77, d.); head of female distinctly
										shorter than pronotum (Fig. 78, B.); subgenital plate of male rather short,
										conical, blunt at tip (Fig. 77, b.)
									c. Fastigium of vertex more prominent and angulate, its greatest width
										not more than its length in front of eye (Fig. 77, g.);
										frontal costa distinctly narrowed at point of union with vertex, its sulcus deep
										throughout; lateral carinæ evident but faint. 85. INTERTEXTA.
									cc. Fastigium of vertex bluntly rounded, its greatest width more than
										its length before front margin of eye (Fig. 77, h.); frontal
										costa but slightly narrowed at point of union with vertex, its sulcus shallow
										and below the ocellus evanescent; lateral carinæ wanting.
									d. Male without a pale subcostal stripe on basal half of tegmina; vertex
										with a more or less distinct median carina; general color greenish. 86. BIVITTATA.
									dd. Male with a subcostal pale stripe on basal half of tegmina; vertex
										without a median carina; general color buffy. 87. MACCLUNGI.
								

								
									83. MERMIRIA ALACRIS
										Scudder, 1877b, 30. Lively Locust.

									Elongate, rather robust; color largely green; head green, with a median
										reddish-brown stripe above, and a broader postocular one, each side, all three
										often extending back to hind margin of pronotum; face with a narrow similar
										stripe each side; tegmina green, usually with a narrow reddish stripe reaching
										from base three-fourths or more to apex along the median area; antennæ and tibiæ
										reddish-brown; hind femora dull green tinged with fuscous brown. Pronotum and
										head subequal in length, the former with lateral carinæ distinct on prozona,
										which is twice as long as metazona. Tegmina and wings extending slightly beyond
										tip of abdomen. Subgenital plate of male very strongly produced. Length of body,
										♂, 28--40, ♀, 41--55; of antennæ, ♂, 15, ♀, 16; of pronotum, ♂, 5--6.4, ♀, 7--9;
										of tegmina, ♂, 21--28, ♀, 30--38; of hind femora, ♂, 18--23, ♀, 28--29
										mm.
								

								Dunedin, Fla., Oct. 29, one female (W. S. B.); Mobile, Ala.,
									Aug. 25, Sept. 19 (Loding) ; Macon, Ga., Oct. 12 (Fox). Recorded  elsewhere in Florida from
									numerous stations as far south as Ft. Myers. It is mainly a dry-land species,
									inhabiting the tall grasses and the undergrowth of open pine woods, though
									sometimes found on bunch grass in old fields or the borders of swampy timbered
									areas. Adults have been taken from mid-July to the last of November. The
									reddish-brown stripes have in life a purplish or rosaceous tinge, and the insect
									is one of the most handsome of the Tryxalinæ. Its known range in our territory is
									from central North Carolina and northern Georgia, south and west to Ft. Myers and
									Dunedin, Fla., Mobile, Ala., and Hattiesburg, Miss. West of the Mississippi it has
									been recorded by Morse from Wilburton and Shawnee, Okla., and by McNeill and
									Scudder from Dallas, Texas. As first pointed out by Morse (1907, 27)
									M. vigilans
									Scudder (1899a, 43) is a synonym; as is also the M.
										rostrata
									McNeill (1897, 207) from Mackay, Oklahoma.

								
									84. MERMIRIA NEOMEXICANA
										(Thomas), 1870, 77.

									Form rather slender, compressed. Color pale brown, the head and marginal
										field of tegmina sometimes green, and then the dorsal field of the latter tinged
										with reddish; median stripe of head often faint or wanting, the lateral ones as
										in bivittata. Head as long as thorax; vertex as described in
										key, often with a faint median carina; sulcus of frontal costa rather shallow,
										with sides feebly divergent below the ocellus. Pronotum with lateral carinæ
										entire, distinct but low; metazona one-half the length of prozona. Tegmina and
										hind femora reaching tip of abdomen. Subgenital plate of male strongly tapering,
										slightly shorter than the preceding segment. Length of body, ♂, 27--35, ♀,
										37--52; of pronotum, ♂, 4.1--5.8, ♀, 6--8; of tegmina, ♂, 17--27, ♀, 23--33; of
										hind femora, ♂, 16--21, ♀, 20--28 mm. (Fig. 78, A.)
								

								
									Fig. 78. Females of Mermiria. A, M.
											neomexicana (Thos.); B, M. bivittata (Serv.). Natural size. (After Rehn.)
								

								This species is included in this work on the strength of the Illinois records by
										Hart (1907, 231) and Vestal (1913, 20). Hart reported
									it as taken with M. bivittata (macclungi) near Havana and
									Teheran, August 18--Sept. 2, being "found among long bunch grass between the sand
									dunes." The types of Thomas were from northeastern New Mexico, and its known range
									extends from northwestern Illinois west to eastern Montana and south and southwest
									to central and western Texas, southern Arizona and 
									Durango, Mexico. Specimens at hand received from Bruner are labelled "Western
									Nebraska," and he records it (1893a, 22) as occurring upon the prairies of the
									entire State, frequenting rather high grounds in preference to low ones.
										Morse (1907, 28) records it from Oklahoma and Texas, and adds that
									"it is characteristic of the drier parts of the prairie-plains and is often
									locally abundant." M. belfragii
									Stål (1873, 102) described from Texas, is regarded as a synonym.

								
									85. MERMIRIA INTERTEXTA
										Scudder, 1899a, 42.

									Close to bivittata, the principal differences given in the
										key. The brown median stripe on head and thorax is usually present and the
										lateral ones distinct. "Fastigium in both sexes scarcely broader than its length
										beyond the narrowest part of vertex (Fig. 77, g) ; triangular,
										male, or subtriangular, female, with straight, male, or arcuate, female, sides
										and blunt apex, the margins slightly ascending and with faint or no median
										carina." Disk of pronotum more than twice as long as broad, lateral carinæ
										evident but vague, median one rather strong, hind margin feebly obtuse-angulate.
										Tegmina and wings reaching, hind femora slightly exceeding, the tip of abdomen.
										Length of body, ♂, 31--42, ♀, 46.5--57; of antennæ, ♂, 18, ♀, 15; of pronotum,
										♀, 5--7, ♀, 7.6--9; of tegmina, ♂, 23--28, ♀, 33--40; of hind femora, ♂, 18--22,
										♀, 26--31 mm.
								

								Ocean View, Va., Aug. 9 (Caudell); Millenbeck and Portsmouth,
									Va., Aug. 8., Oct. 3 (Fox) ; Dunedin, Fla., Oct. 28 (W. S. B.). In Florida this locust has been recorded by Davis and
									R. & H. from a dozen different localities from Jacksonville and Cedar Keys
									southward, and it doubtless occurs throughout the State, including the southern
									keys. It is a lover of moist places and is usually to be found among the tall
									grasses and weeds of both salt and fresh water marshes, but sometimes occurs in
									the undergrowth between the adjacent dunes. Morse (1904, 29) states
									that it is a "shy and active insect, flying freely and far, and on alighting
									dodges quickly around the grass stems to escape observation, or, slipping nimbly
									downward and backward, seeks to hide itself." Scudder's types were from Georgia
									and Eagle Pass, Texas, and its known range extends from New Jersey and Virginia,
									south and southwest to the latter place.

								
									86. MERMIRIA BIVITTATA
										(Serville), 1839, 589. Two-striped Mermiria.

									Form rather robust for the genus. Male usually greenish or citron-yellow,
										with tegmina pale brown at base, becoming darker brown apically; female usually
										darker, the upper surface often with a purplish tinge, tegmina dark brown with a
										distinct greenish-yellow subcostal stripe; both sexes with a shining
										chocolate-brown postocular stripe extending along the upper third of lateral
										lobes and sometimes with a reddish-brown  median
										one on occiput; hind femora reddish or purplish-brown; hind tibiæ red, the
										spines tipped with black. Head of male but slightly shorter than pronotum, of
										female, distinctly shorter. Vertex as described in key, the angle at juncture of
										frontal costa and fastigium rather broadly rounded. Hind margin of pronotum
										broadly obtusely angled,. Tegmina slightly surpassing tips of hind femora in
										both sexes. Subgenital plate of male with apex forming a short, rather blunt
										compressed cone. Length of body, ♂, 29--37, ♀, 40--51; of pronotum, ♂, 4.6--6,
										♀, 7--8.4; of tegmina, ♂, 20--27, ♀, 30--36; of hind femora, ♂, 17--21, ♀,
										25--30 mm. (Fig. 78, B.)
								

								The above is a description of the form placed under Serville's name bivittata by Rehn, specimens of which were examined by me at Philadelphia.
									It is very close to the typical form of M. maculipennis
									Bruner (1890, 54) described from Texas, the females being very
									difficult to separate.
								As placed above M. bivittata ranges from eastern North Carolina
									and northern Florida west to central Texas and northward west of the Mississippi
									to West Point, Nebraska and Keokuk, Iowa. From Florida it is known only by two
									males, taken at Pablo Beach and Ft. Barrancas. According to Rehn it frequents for
									the most part "areas of rich high grass, with or without intermingled weeds." At
									Lane, S. Car., it was locally abundant "in the high grasses of long-leaf pine
									woods," while in Texas it was found on grasses in both post oak and open
									short-leaf pine forests. Adults occur from June 30 (Texas) to Oct. 1 (Iowa).
								In the past this species has been much confused with M.
										maculipennis and its variety, macclungi, but in addition
									to the characters given above it differs generally by the color which is a "more
									decided and richer green and a clearer, more transparent red-brown."

								
									87. MERMIRIA MACULIPENNIS MACCLUNGI
										Rehn, 1919, 111. McClung's Locust.

									Form slender for the genus. Pale wood-brown or dirty cream-buff more or less
										greenish-yellow beneath; behind each eye a rather wide purplish-brown stripe
										usually extends backward to hind margin of pronotum; head of male sometimes with
										a similar median stripe; antennæ and hind tibiæ reddish; tegmina in both sexes
										with a narrow greenish submarginal stripe on basal half; wings transparent;
										knees of hind legs and tibial spines tipped with black. Pronotum but slightly
										narrowed at middle, median carina distinct, metazona two-thirds the length of
										prozona, finely reticulate; hind margin feebly subangulate. Tegmina and hind
										femora reaching the tip of abdomen, female, slightly surpassing it, male. Length
										of body, ♂, 26--32, ♀, 36--45; of antennæ, ♂, 13--15, ♀, 12--14; of pronotum, ♂,
										4.1--5, ♀, 5.5--7; of tegmina, ♂, 19--23, ♀, 27--32; of hind femora, ♂, 15--18,
										♀, 21--26 mm.
								


								

								Lincoln, Neb., Sept.; Logan Co., Kansas, August (Bruner). This
									variety or subspecies of the southwestern M. maculipennis Bruner
									has been hitherto recorded by most American authors as Opomala
										bivittata or Mermiria bivittata (Serv.). Its known range
									extends from northwestern Illinois west and north to southern Montana and northern
									Utah, and south to southern Missouri and southwestern Kansas. In Illinois
										Hart (1907, 231) states that it was taken with M.
										neomexicana at Havana and at Teheran "among long bunch grass, Panicum virgatum L., in an old blow-out between sand dunes"; also at
									Tamaroa and Chautauqua. Rehn states that it frequents for the most part patches
									and stretches of sparse short grass and has been taken as adult from July 8 to
									Sept. 14.
								The three forms, bivittata, maculipennis and macclungi, are very closely related and were it not that McClung has shown
									the chromosomes of the first two named to be different, I should place them as did
										Scudder (1899a) as one widely distributed and variable species
									under the name of bivittata Serv.
							

							
								Tribe II. AMBLYTROPIDI.

								Shorter and usually proportionally stouter species than those of the preceding
									tribe, having the antennæ distinctly flattened (except in Amblytropidia) but not ensiform or triquetrous; head not conical, never
									longer than pronotum, not or very feebly ascending; vertex with a distinct median
									longitudinal carina, its apex usually rounded and sides not or but slightly
									raised; foveolæ wanting or invisible from above; face distinctly oblique but much
									less so than in the Tryxalini; pronotum with lateral lobes less distinctly
									vertical, lateral carinæ usually converging at middle and diverging on metazona,
									parallel in two genera; median carina usually cut once in or not far behind the
									middle; tegmina with tips rounded; wings transparent. Six genera represent the
									tribe in the Eastern States.

								
									KEY TO EASTERN GENERA OF AMBLYTROPIDI.

									a. Hind tibiæ armed on the outer margin with 18 to 21 rather small
										spines; color of female usually largely green; sexes very unequal in size. I. SYRBULA.
									aa. Spines on outer side of hind tibiæ 10-15 in number; color of female,
										in great part at least, brown or grayish-brown; sexes more equal in size.
									b. Disk of pronotum with lateral carinæ converging near middle (feebly
										so in Eritettix) and closer together there than at either the
										front or hind margin.


									

									c. Apical spurs on inner side of hind tibiæ very unequal in length, the
										middle one sometimes twice as long as the others; occiput and often the disk of
										pronotum with supplementary carinæ.
									d. Antennæ depressed and somewhat clavate toward apex (Fig. 83, h); tegmina as long as the abdomen; lateral carinæ subparallel.
											II. ERITETTIX.
									dd. Antennæ depressed toward base and narrowed toward apex, which is
										blunt; tegmina shorter than abdomen; lateral carinæ much curved inward at
										middle. III. PEDETICUM.
									cc. Apical spurs on inner side of hind tibiæ subequal; occiput and
										pronotum without supplementary carinæ; all carinæ of pronotum cut much behind
										the middle by the principal sulcus; antennæ of male twice or more the length of
										pronotum, their basal halves strongly flattened. IV. CHLŒALTIS.
									bb. Disk of pronotum with lateral carinæ, when present, strictly
										parallel or diverging very slightly on the metazona.
									e. Head and thorax striped with brown; scapular area of tegmina dilated,
										subhyaline; pronotum with lateral carinæ very faint or wanting; supplementary
										carinæ usually present in female; smaller, female not over 22 mm. in length. V. AMPHITORNUS.
									ee. Color uniform brown or grayish-brown; scapular area of tegmina not
										dilated, opaque; lateral carinæ of pronotum evident; supplementary carinæ
										wanting; larger, female 27 or more mm. in length. VI. AMBLYTROPIDIA.
								
							

							
								I. SYRBULA
									Stål, 1873, 90, 102.

								Head nearly, female, or fully, male, as long as pronotum; occiput moderately
									rounded and feebly ascending; vertex subtriangular, its sides rather prominent,
									median carina distinct, front margin subangulate, deflexed and rounded into the
									frontal costa; antennæ filiform, flattened toward base, expanded apically in the
									male; frontal costa wide, narrowed at apex, deeply sulcate, male, feebly so,
									female; pronotum with the three carinæ distinct, the lateral gently or strongly
									sinuate, so that the disk is plainly narrower at middle, all cut by one sulcus
									slightly behind middle; lateral lobes of pronotum about as high as long, their
									front and hind margins moderately oblique, the latter slightly sinuate, the lower
									margin more or less undulate; tegmina well developed, equalling or slightly
									exceeding the abdomen in both sexes, those of male distinctly, regularly
									reticulate except in the anal and scapular areas, which are widened, those of
									female feebly reticulate and not expanded in the areas mentioned; hind femora
									unusually long and slender, surpassing the tips of tegmina in our species;
									subgenital plate of male acutely conical, not longer than the preceding segment;
									ovipositor moderately exserted.


								

								Ten species of the genus are listed by Kirby (1910, 107), of which
									four occur in the United States, the others in Mexico. But one is known from our
									territory.

								
									88. SYRBULA ADMIRABILIS
										(Uhler), 1864, 553. Handsome Locust.

									Male much smaller and more slender than female, its general color
										olive-brown and yellowish; face yellowish, the corners of mouth pitch-brown;
										antennæ with basal two-thirds yellowish, the apical club-shaped portion with one
										side fuscous, the other pale; a narrow line running obliquely backward from each
										eye to the pronotum and the lateral carinæ and lower fourth of lateral lobe of
										pronotum, yellowish; tegmina brownish, the disk more or less dusky near base;
										hind femora yellowish with two or three oblique dusky bars on upper outer face,
										knees black; hind tibiæ pale, the spines tipped with black. Female, face and
										sides of head green, antennæ pale at base, the apical hair usually dusky; a pale
										reddish-brown stripe extends from tip of vertex backward to hind margin of
										pronotum, this bordered each side by a black stripe which is much narrower on
										head; sides of pronotum green with a fuscous bar across the middle; tegmina
										smoky brown, the dorsal and costal fields each with a bright green stripe, the
										latter notched above by the serrations of a fuscous stripe, which lies between
										the two green areas; wings smoky brown, tinged with greenish-yellow at base;
										hind femora with upper lateral carinæ whitish, upper outer face green, the lower
										reddish-brown; hind tibiæ as in male; ground color of female rarely brown, that
										of male rarely green. Structural characters as given under the genus heading.
										Length of body, ♂, 22--27, ♀, 35--40; of antennæ, ♂, 9.5--11, ♀, 10--10.5; of
										pronotum, ♂, 4.5--5, ♀, 6--6.5; of tegmina, ♂, 18--20, ♀, 26--27; of hind
										femora, ♂, 17.5--19, ♀, 24--26 mm.
								

								This prettily colored locust is nowhere common in Indiana, having been taken
									sparingly only in the southern half of the State and Tippecanoe Co. in the north.
									It frequents, for the most part, high, open uplands, where the soil is poor and
									covered with scant vegetation, though it is sometimes found in timothy meadows and
									along roadsides where the grass has been cropped short. But few individuals have
									been noted in any one locality. It reaches maturity about August 1st. The males
									differ so much in size and color from the other sex that they are very apt to be
									considered a distinct species. As the slender legs indicate, the movements are
									made mostly by the wings, the flight being rapid and noiseless.
								In Florida it appears to be widely distributed through the northern part of the
									State, numerous records having been made as far south as Gainesville. Below that
									place, so far as known, only two specimens, both females, have been taken, one at
									Miami by R. & H., Sept. 1, which measured 45.2 mm. in length, the other by the
									writer at Dunedin, Dec. 24. There it occurs on wire grass in open pine woods.



								

								The range of S. admirabilis is given by McNeill as "United
									States east of the Rocky Mountains, extending as far north as Nebraska and
									northern Illinois, and on the Atlantic coast to Maryland." It is not recorded from
									New England, Iowa or Michigan, but has been taken in central Ohio. It is known
									from Pennsylvania and New Jersey, and occurs most commonly south and southwest
									from the latter State, having been recorded as far at least as Victoria, Texas
											(Caudell, 1903, 781) and La Trementina, New
									Mexico. Morse (1907, 28) says that it "is one of the commonest and
									most generally distributed locusts in the South, occurring most abundantly among
									grasses in dry stations and waste places." In Virginia Fox (1917)
									records it as: "A frequent and widely distributed species in old neglected fields
									and pastures, especially those overgrown with Andropogon and
									other coarse and dry grasses; less commonly found in open woodland scrub." The
									only account of its stridulation which can be found is by Allard
										(1916) who says: "The male is rather musical, producing a weak, lisping
									stridulation at intervals--s-s-s-s--s-s-s-s-s-s-s, by sawing the hind femora upon
									the edges of the tegmina."
							

							
								II. ERITETTIX
									Bruner, 1890, 56. (Gr., "heath" + "grasshopper.")

								Species of small size having the head conical, horizontal; vertex triangular,
									broader than long, its sides raised and apex obtusely rounded; occiput with three
									carinæ, one median and two supplementary, the latter often feeble, extending from
									pronotum to opposite front margin of eyes and there bending and joining the
									lateral carinæ of vertex; foveolæ present below the vertex, small, subtriangular,
									not visible from above; frontal costa rather wide, sulcate, with sides feebly
									diverging from slightly above the ocellus downward; antennæ not reaching base of
									pronotum, flattened toward base, enlarged toward apex; pronotum tricarinate and
									also often with a pair of supplementary carinæ, all cut by the principal sulcus
									distinctly behind the middle; disk with hind margin feebly obtuse-angulate,
									prozona twice as long as metazona; lateral lobes about as wide as long, their
									front and hind margins slightly oblique, lower one with front half distinctly
									ascending; hind femora rather stout, extending beyond tip of abdomen; apical inner
									spur of hind tibiæ more than twice as long as the one adjoining; subgenital plate
									of male conical, obtuse, ascending; ovipositor with valves scarcely exserted.
								A North American genus to which Kirby accredits eight species,  several of which are now known to be synonyms. But
									one occurs in the Eastern States.

								
									89. ERITETTIX SIMPLEX
										(Scudder), 1869, 305. Velvet-striped Locust.

									Short, rather robust. Pale brownish-yellow; dorsal surface of head and
										thorax in the typical form with a pair of blackish-brown stripes beginning at
										the base of vertex and extending back to hind margin of pronotum, these limited
										inwardly by the supplementary carinæ of head and pronotum; when the
										supplementary carinæ of pronotum are absent, these dark stripes are wanting, the
										occiput and disk of pronotum then being wholly pale brown, but the sides of head
										and pronotum with a broad brown postocular stripe extending back to base of
										tegmina; apical half of antennæ fuscous; basal half of tegmina often with an
										indistinct dark median stripe bordered below with one of greenish-white; tibial
										spines tipped with black. Pronotum with lateral carinæ either subparallel or
										feebly yet evidently bent inward just in front of middle; supplementary carinæ
										usually distinct, sometimes faint or wholly wanting; tegmina surpassing the tip
										of abdomen about 3 mm. in both sexes. Length of body, ♂, 16--17, ♀, 22--24; of
										antennæ, ♂, 5.5--6, ♀, 5; of pronotum, ♂, 4.5, ♀, 5; of tegmina, ♂, 12.5--13, ♀,
										13--17; of hind femora, ♂, 10--12, ♀, 13--15 mm. (Fig. 83, h.)
								

								Charlottesville, Va.; Clarksville, Tenn., Apr. 21--May 24 (Fox); Fayetteville, Ark., April 20 (McNeill). The Arkansas
									specimens were sent to me about 1900, under the name Eritettix
										virgatus Scudder. They agree in all particulars with specimens of the
									typical form of E. simplex received from Fox. McNeill's table
									(1897, 218) separating the species of Eritettix was based
									largely upon the color of the pronotum and the presence or absence of its
									supplementary carinæ, characters which are now known to be exceedingly variable in
									the same species. There is little doubt, therefore, but that the records of the
										E. virgatus of Bruner and Hart (nec. Scudder) from Nebraska
									and Illinois refer also to E. simplex as at present recognized
									by R. & H. Since they have combined E. carinatus (Scudd.)
									with simplex, there is but the one species known east of the
									Mississippi, its known range extending from New Haven and other points in
									Connecticut (Britton, 1904) west to eastern
									Nebraska and northwestern Arkansas, and southwest at least to northeastern Alabama
									and Buckhead, Georgia.
								Fox (1917) states that in Virginia E. simplex is
									"frequent in old neglected fields and pastures, especially those overrun with Andropogon and other coarse grasses." Rehn & Hebard
										(1910a, 626) recorded it as locally plentiful at Sulphur Springs, N.
									Car., where it occurred "in the low grasses of the treeless slopes and  valleys." They first called attention to the marked
									dimorphism in the species, but stated that "between the two types are numerous
									individuals which seem to bridge more or less completely the gap between the
									extremes." Later (1916, 159) they stated that 159 adults in their collection
									showed that "individuals having a strongly defined median pronotal stripe have
									strongly defined supplementary carinæ, while those having the dorsum of the
									pronotum unicolorous wholly lack supplementary carinæ." This is true of the series
									at hand from which the above description was drawn up. Fox says that "both forms
									are frequent at Charlottesville, Va., the typical form being the more abundant.
									Both have the same habitat preferences and life histories and are almost
									invariably associated with each other. Although typical examples of both races are
									common, the writer has never found any individuals bridging the gap between them."
									As both these authorities assert that the absence of supplementary carinæ on the
									pronotum is always associated with a lack of the dorsal dark
									stripes, this fact is evidence that the atypical form possessing these characters
									is at least a distinct variety or color phase. Since it has no name, I herewith
									propose for it that of dorsalis var. nov.
								The Gomphocerus carinatus of Scudder (1875g, 511),
									a name based on a three-line footnote, has been placed as a synonym of E. simplex by R. & H. (1910a, 626). It is the Eritettix carinatus of Britton (1904), of
										Walden (1911), of Morse (1907), and of Allard
										(1916). The last named author has given a description of its stridulating
									habits as follows: "I first met this little Acridian early in April at Thompson's
									Mills, Ga., in an old pasture grown up to broom grass. It keeps well down in the
									grass, moving about occasionally to stridulate. If it leaps and alights near the
									top of a grass stalk, it moves backward down the stalk until near the ground. Its
									notes are faint, lisping phrases of a few seconds duration, and are at intervals
									repeated six or eight times in quick succession :
									sic-a-sic-a-sic-a-sic-a-sic-a-sic-sic-a-sic-a-sic-a-sic,-etc. This grasshopper is
									most active when the sun is shining. Its notes resemble those of Stenobothrus curtipennus very much, and are produced in the same manner by
									sawing both thighs simultaneously upon the edges of the tegmina."
							

							
								III. PEDETICUM
									McNeill, 1897, 216. (Gr., "a leaper.")

								Species of small size having the head horizontal, occiput with supplementary
									carinæ as in Eritettix; vertex short with sides raised and
									rounded or subangulate, median carina strong, apex 
									obtusely angled, frontal costa wide, narrowing above the antennæ, deeply sulcate,
									male, shallowly, female; antennæ flattened, of nearly equal size throughout,
									shorter than head and thorax in both sexes; disk of pronotum with hind margin
									truncate, lateral carinæ strongly incurved at middle, none of the carinæ cut by
									the transverse sulci which are very faint; lateral lobes about as high as long,
									front and hind margins feebly oblique, lower one nearly straight; tegmina and
									wings rudimentary; hind femora rather stout, scarcely surpassing the tip of
									abdomen, female, strongly so, male; hind tibiæ with about 12 spines on outer
									margin, apical inner spur one-half longer than the others; subgenital plate of
									male subcylindrical, very obtuse; ovipositor distinctly exserted.
								McNeill founded the genus Pedeticum for our only species.
										Scudder (1898a, 239) claimed that this name was preoccupied by Pedeticus Laporte in Hemiptera, and proposed in its stead Macneillia. In this he was controverted by Caudell (1915,
										1916a), but upheld by Hebard (1916, 17; 1916d). As these two
									eminent authorities cannot agree I have retained the older name until, as Hebard
									suggests, the case is settled by a "final decision of the International
									Commission."

								
									90. PEDETICUM OBSCURUM
										(Scudder), 1877a, 88. Obscure Locust.

									Short, robust; the male much the smaller and more slender. Dark
										brownish-yellow or grayish-brown, usually nearly uniform, male; when
										supplementary carinæ are present on pronotum, both sexes with a wide median
										dorsal white, yellowish or buff stripe extending from tip of vertex nearly or
										wholly to end of abdomen, this bordered each side by one of blackish-brown;
										female rarely with green lateral markings on pronotum and tegmina; apical half
										of antennæ fuscous. Occiput with supplementary carinæ in both sexes connected
										with the median carina by numerous small transverse carinæ; pronotum of male
										rarely, of female usually, with supplementary carinæ and then with pale dorsal
										median stripe as above noted. Tegmina of female small, elongate-oval pads about
										one-third the length of abdomen and well separated above; of male sublanceolate,
										feebly overlapping and about three-fourths the length of abdomen. Wings
										represented by small narrow pads. Length of body, ♂, 13.5--15, ♀, 21--24; of
										antennæ, ♂, 7, ♀, 6; of pronotum, ♂, 3.5--4, ♀, 4.5--5; of tegmina, ♂, 6.5, ♀,
										6; of hind femora, ♂ 9.3--10, ♀, 12--13 mm.
								

								Ormond, Sanford, Miami, Sarasota and Dunedin, Fla.; Oct. 25--April 10 (W. S. B.). Both adults and nymphs are frequent about Dunedin
									throughout the winter on and among the clumps of wire-grass and other undergrowth
									in open pine and oak woods. They usually occur in small colonies which are limited
									to an area  of a few square rods, each colony
									probably remaining close to its hatching point, the short wings precluding a wider
									dispersion. When disturbed, the males leap actively two or three times, then
									settle down, but the females are more clumsy and after one jump often attempt to
									escape observation by burrowing among the fallen leaves or grass stems. Scudder's
									types were from Ft. Reed, Fla., and the species has been recorded from many
									localities in that State, throughout which it doubtless occurs and to which, as
									far as the records show, it is restricted, Live Oak being the most northern point
									at which it has been found.
								The Eritettix sylvestrus of the writer (1902, 192, 219) was
									based, as has been pointed out by R. & H. (1912, 251), on two
									females of the form of P. obscura having the supplementary
									carinæ of pronotum distinct and the median dorsal buff stripe fully developed. The
									name sylvestrus may therefore be retained for that color phase
									or variety of the species. The typical form is like that of Eritettix
										simplex in that all specimens known having a wholly unicolorous dorsum of
									the pronotum, have also the supplementary carinæ of pronotum wholly wanting.
							

							
								IV. CHLŒALTIS
									Harris, 1841, 148. (Gr., "grasshopper.")

								Medium sized, rather robust species, having the head short, obtuse, feebly
									ascending; vertex triangular, its sides but little elevated, disk more concave in
									male than female, median carina short but distinct, foveolæ wanting; frontal costa
									prominent, more or less rounded above the antennæ, flat or feebly sulcate below
									the ocellus; pronotum with three carinæ equally distinct, lateral carinæ more or
									less incurved, especially in female, so that the middle of disk is plainly
									narrowed; lateral lobes of pronotum slightly longer than high, fore and hind
									margins straight, oblique, lower margin with posterior half nearly horizontal, its
									front portion strongly ascending; tegmina of female abbreviated (rarely fully
									developed), those of male well developed, with costal area dilated and strongly
									reticulate; hind femora of medium size, banded on the upper outer face; hind tibiæ
									with about 12 spines on each outer margin; subgenital plate of male conical,
									blunt, strongly ascending, equal to or shorter than the preceding segment;
									ovipositor short, little exserted, the upper valves enlarged and strongly toothed
									above at base.

								
									KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF CHLŒALTIS.
									a. Hind margin of disk of pronotum truncate; male with lateral lobes of
										pronotum black, and antennæ nearly twice as long as head and  pronotum together. 91. CONSPERSA.
									aa. Hind margin of pronotum obtusely rounded (Fig. 82); male with
										lateral lobes of pronotum brown, and antennæ only one-third longer than head and
										pronotum together. 92. ABDOMINALIS.
								
								
									Fig. 79. Chlœaltis conspersa Harr. Male. (After Lugger.)
								

								
									91. CHLŒALTIS CONSPERSA
										Harris, 1841, 149. Sprinkled Locust.

									Male usually light brown above, always with a broad shining black bar wholly
										covering the lateral lobes of pronotum; tegmina without spots or with a few
										faint dusky ones; hind tibiæ red or yellowish, knees black. Female varying from
										dull clay-yellow to dark brown, with tegmina usually more or less sprinkled with
										small black spots, and sides of pronotum with only traces of the dark bar.
										Tegmina of female covering half of abdomen, those of male reaching nearly to its
										tips; inner wings shorter, nearly abortive in both sexes. Ovipositor of peculiar
										structure, being fitted for boring in wood, its upper valves short, broad, the
										posterior edge toothed like a saw; lower ones with a strong hooked tooth at tip
										(Fig. 84, d.) Other structural characters as given under the
										genus heading. Length of body, ♂, 15--20, ♀, 20--28; of antennæ, ♂ and ♀,
										10--12; of tegmina, ♂, 8--12, ♀, 8--10; of hind femora, ♂, 13.5, ♀, 16 mm.
										(Figs. 79 and 80.)
								
								
									Fig. 8o. Female. X 1.5. (After Lugger.)
								

								This handsome wood-brown locust occurs throughout Indiana, but nowhere in
									numbers. It makes its home in thickets, in the borders of open woods, in grassy
									plots alongside old rail fences, and oftentimes along the borders of streams in
									woodland pastures, but is seldom seen in damp localities. In such places its hues
									correspond so closely with those of the dead leaves, fallen grass stems and other
									surroundings that it is seldom the insect is noted until it leaps clumsily to one
									side. Mature males have been taken in Vigo County on June 19th, an early date for
									locusts which have hatched from the egg in spring. A single female with tegmina
									reaching slightly beyond tip of abdomen was taken in Vigo County. The ordinary
									short-winged female is apt to be confused with the brown females of Dichromorpha viridis, but can be readily distinguished by the presence of
									the median carina of vertex, and the curved lateral carinæ of pronotum.
								The general range of C. conspersa is northern, extending as far
									as known, from Maine north and west to the Severn River,  Ontario, Banff, Alta., northern Minnesota and northern Colorado, south
									and southwest to Virginia, North Carolina and northwestern Arkansas. In Virginia
									and North Carolina it is mainly confined to the mountainous regions. In
									Pennsylvania Fox records it (1914, 493) as "typically a denizen of moist woodland,
									frequenting grasses and sedges around wet depressions," a habitat widely at
									variance with that noted by me in Indiana and Connecticut. The long-winged form,
										prima
									Morse (1896, 420) is very scarce, not over a dozen specimens, all
									females, having been recorded.
								Of its habits near Pequaming, Mich., Rehn (1904d), quoting Hebard,
									says: "The females are very easy to capture when found. They are, of course,
									unable to fly, and their jump lacks entirely the elasticity so characteristic of
									the males, the latter being about the best jumpers of any of the Orthoptera found
									in the eastern United States. They have a powerful spring, but it is their
									quickness which renders them so difficult to capture. When alarmed, they are not
									content with one spring to a place of apparent safety, but jump about with such
									speed that they can hardly be followed with the eyes, and never cease their rapid
									succession of jumps until deep under the nearby vines, twigs or dead grasses,
									where they cannot be induced to stir, and owing to their color are perfectly safe.
									I have never seen a specimen where there was not a thick tangle somewhere near in
									which to hide. I was only able to catch them by listening until one of the
									musicians gave his tsikk-tssikk-tssikk, which was always lustily
									delivered; then approaching within a few feet I would wait, knowing that, if not
									as yet alarmed, the sound would be repeated in a few seconds. If my approach had
									been sufficiently stealthy, the musician would at length disclose his position by
									giving a cautious tsik. Pouncing upon him while busy
									stridulating, I could usually take him before he could get in position to spring.
									So keen and shy are they, however, that often, after a careful advance, occupying
									several minutes, the singer would notice me when still several feet distant, and
									would not again make a sound, no matter how long I remained motionless."
								Interesting accounts of the egg-laying habits of the female of conspersa have been given by both S. I. Smith (1868, 146) and
										Scudder (1874, 372). I have, on a number of occasions, noted the
									females with the abdomen inserted in soft or decaying wood, and once in Vigo Co.,
									Ind., on August 11, a female was discovered in the act of boring a hole in the
									upper edge of the topmost board of  a six-plank
									fence. The abdomen was curved downward, and the toothed forcipate valves of the
									ovipositor used as pincers with which small pieces of wood were broken off. When
									discovered the abdomen was inserted nearly one-half an inch in the pine board, and
									the upper edge of the opening about the sides of the abdomen was covered with
									small pieces of the wood, just as the dust or borings will accumulate about the
									edge of a hole which a carpenter is boring. I stood by and watched her work for
									ten or more minutes, when she suddenly stopped, withdrew her ovipositor and hopped
									away. Along the fence, within a distance of 30 feet, I found 15 other holes, 11 of
									which were fresh, while the others had evidently been bored the previous year.
									Most of these holes were on the upper edge of the top board, which was in all
									cases of pine and perfectly sound. None of the holes contained eggs, most of them
									being less than half an inch in depth. On July 21st, and September 21st, I have
									found them with the abdomen inserted full length in stumps or logs, and when
									removed, eggs were found in the lower horizontal portion of each cavity. On the
									former date the female was ovipositing after dark in an oak log which served as
									part of a bridge across a stream. Smith (loc. cit.) has suggested
									that the reason for so few holes being finished is that the wood proves too hard,
									and the insect tries for a softer place, or, many of them may be disturbed during
									the process of oviposition.
								Scudder (loc. cit.) says: 
										"The wood must be firm enough to retain the eggs well in place, and soft
											enough to absorb much moisture in the spring. Upright pieces of timber are
											never chosen, but rather short sticks of decaying, charred or pithy wood,
											which can not easily be broken or blown against the rocks. Holes are
											frequently made three-quarters of an inch deep, and abandoned because the spot
											proves unsuitable. In a stick about a foot and a half long, and two or three
											inches wide, I counted 75 borings, only three or four of which had been used
											as nests. The number of imperfect to perfect holes must be as 25 to one. When
											a good piece of wood is discovered, the nests are crowded thickly together;
											and a stick less than two inches in diameter and five inches in length
											contained 13 completed nests. The holes are pierced at a slight angle to the
											perpendicular, away from the insect; they are straight for about a quarter of
											an inch, then turn abruptly and run horizontally along the grain for about an
											inch.
										The eggs (from 10 to 14 in number) are almost always laid in the horizontal
											portion of the nest; they are cylindrical, tapering toward the ends, but not
											at all pointed, and measure from five to five and a half millimeters in
											length, by one and one-eighth in breadth; the ends are equally and regularly
											rounded. They vary in tint, some being almost colorless,  and others of a faint yellow. After the eggs have been carefully
											packed away in the sawdust made by the abrasion of the sides of the hole, they
											are covered above with a whitish froth, and the hole is sealed up just below
											the surface of the wood with a black glutinous secretion, excessively hard,
											smooth and shiny, and the upper surface slightly concave. In the spring the
											moisture doubtless softens these coverings so that the young grasshoppers can
											easily escape. Many old nests may be found uncovered and filled with the
											shells of the eggs, but none in which the cover is still retained."
									

								
									Fig. 81. a, Note of Chlœaltis conspersa in
										the sun; b, same in the shade; c, note of
											Chorthippus curtipennis. (After Scudder.)
								

								The stridulation of the sprinkled locust has been described by Scudder
										(1874, 370) thus: "Its song is of varied rapidity, according to the
									amount of sunshine; in the sun it makes from nine to twelve notes, at the rate of
									53 in 15 seconds; the usual number of notes is ten. In the shade the rate falls to
									43 in 15 seconds, the number of notes remaining the same (Fig. 81, a,
										b.). The femur is evidently scraped gently upon the elytron to produce the
									sound, for frequently, at the commencement, two or three noiseless movements are
									made, the leg failing to touch the wing-cover. I once found three males singing to
									a single female, who was busily engaged in laying eggs in a stick of wood, two of
									the males being near enough each other to cross antennæ."

								
									92. CHLŒALTIS ABDOMINALIS
										(Thomas), 1873, 74.

									Easily distinguished from conspersa by the characters
										given in key and by the shorter tegmina and hind tibiæ. Color nearly uniform
										dark brown, hind tibiæ and basal three-fourths of antennæ dull red, dark bands
										on outer face of hind femora less distinct. Occiput more convex than in conspersa, vertex broader, with median carina shorter, the disk
										in male less concave. Disk of pronotum of female, shorter and broader, the
										metazona more rugose-punctate. Tegmina of female shorter, covering only
										one-third of abdomen, more strongly reticulate, their tips suddenly sharply
										acute. Hind femora of female shorter than abdomen. Subgenital plate of male
										longer and more acute than in conspersa. Length of body, ♂,
										18--19, ♀, 23--28; of antennæ, ♂, 9--10, ♀, 8; of tegmina, ♂, 11--12, ♀, 7--10,
										of hind femora, ♂, 12--13, ♀, 13--16 mm. (Fig. 82.)
								


								

								The types of Thomas were from Montana and the specimens at hand are from the Big
									Horn Mountains, Wyoming. While the main distribution of the species is in the
									Northwest, ranging from northern Minnesota, western Nebraska and central Colorado
									to Idaho and northwestern Alberta, and southwest to Beulah and Cloudcroft, New
									Mexico, it extends eastward at least to Nipigon and the Severn River, Ontario, and
									has been taken at Isle Royale, the Porcupine Mountains, Pequaming, and in
									Dickinson Co., Mich. At Nipigon Walker (1909, 176) found both
									long-winged and short-winged forms, the tegmina of the former measuring, male,
									18--]9, female 21--22 mm. About Pequaming, Mich., Hebard took seven specimens, all
									males. "On Sept. 5 two were captured while stridulating on the top of some decked
									hemlock logs. They were very spry, somewhat resembling in their movements and the
									sounds which they produce the males of conspersa."
								
									Fig. 82. Dorsal view of head and pronotum of female. X 3. (After R. &
										H.)
								
								The records show that C. abdominalis is essentially a
									mountain-loving species. Near Fort William, Ont., Walker found it "most numerous
									on the summit of Mt. McKay, where it frequented the small openings in the scrubby
									woods." Bruner (1897, 128) says that it "occurs only in extreme
									western Nebraska, where it is partial to north hill-slopes and steep canon walls."
										R. & H. (1906, 367) record it from Mammoth Hot Springs,
									Yellowstone Park and Manitou, Colo. At the former place it was found in a small
									glade at the top of the foot hills, the males being "very quick and wary, but the
									females extremely heavy and slow, appearing to rely a great deal on their
									protective resemblance to a bit of twig. The stridulation of the male much
									resembles that of C. conspersa but is not nearly so loud."
							

							
								V. AMPHITORNUS
									McNeill, 1897, 196. (Gr., "both sides" + "well
										rounded.")

								Medium sized Tryxalinæ, having the head short, horizontal; vertex advanced in
									front of the eye less than half the interocular width, its disk feebly concave
									each side the short median carina, apex obtusely rounded, sides scarcely elevated;
									frontal costa wide, shallowly sulcate at and slightly above the ocellus, nearly
									flat and with margins a little divergent below; antennæ filiform, feebly  flattened, shorter, female, or equalling, male, the
									length of head and pronotum; disk of pronotum somewhat tectiform, its hind margin
									slightly rounded, median carina distinct, cut at or slightly behind middle by the
									principal sulcus; lateral lobes slightly higher than long, front margin oblique,
									hind one nearly vertical, lower one with front half ascending; tegmina and hind
									femora exceeding the abdomen in both sexes; hind tibiæ with 12--13 spines on outer
									margin; subgenital plate of male short, ascending, obtuse; ovipositor with upper
									valves included, lower ones feebly exserted.
								The range of one of the two known western species overlaps our territory.

								
									93. AMPHITORNUS BICOLOR
										(Thomas), 1872, 465. Bicolored Locust.

									Rather slender, the male but little the smaller. Brownish-yellow; dorsal
										surface with a broad yellow stripe beginning at vertex and usually extending
										back nearly or fully to tips of tegmina, this bordered below each side with a
										brown stripe of almost equal width and length; sides of head and pronotum also
										with a narrower yellow postocular stripe extending backward along the costal
										margin of tegmina; a broad, oblique yellowish stripe starting near base of
										antennæ extends down each cheek and back across the lower edge of pronotal
										lateral lobe, and a narrow yellow stripe extends from below each eye back along
										the middle of each lateral lobe; hind femora with three oblique fuscous bars on
										outer face, knees black; hind tibiæ blue, their spines tipped with black.
										Structural characters as given above. Length of body, ♂, 17--19, ♀,20--22; of
										antennæ, ♂, 9, ♀, 8; of tegmina, ♂ and ♀, 15--17; of hind femora, ♂ and ♀,
										12--13 mm.
								

								This handsome Tryxalid is a species of western range or, as Bruner has put it, a
									"characteristic species of the Great Plains." It is included here on account of
									its occurrence in Illinois, it having been recorded by Hart (1907,
										231) as occurring at the "Devil's Neck," a large area of barren sands and
									blowouts ten miles north of Havana. There it was found only on grassy dune summits
									near the middle of an old post-glacial lake. Hart (1917, Ms.) says:
									"We have numerous specimens, all from the one vicinity north of Havana. I have not
									found it established elsewhere, but expect it may occur in the sand regions
									between Galena and Savanna along the Mississippi in northwestern Illinois which I
									have not yet visited."
								Specimens at hand are from Colorado, Valentine, Nebraska and Morton and Ford
									counties, Kansas. Thomas gave the locality of his types as "Colorado and Wyoming
									east of the mountains, where it is quite common." McNeill (1897, 225)
									records it also  from Montana, Kansas and Nebraska,
									and Walker (1906, 55) from as far northwest as Vernon, B. C. It is
									also known from Aweme, Manitoba, and has been recorded by Bruner
										(1885a) from Yakma River, Wash., and by R. & H. from Salt Lake City,
									Utah. Gillette (1904, 24) mentions it as "a very common species on
									dry grassy slopes over all the eastern portion of Colorado, particularly
									northward, near and for some distance within the first foothills. Specimens have
									been taken at an altitude of 8,000 feet. This insect doubtless causes heavy losses
									on the native pasture lands of the State."
								The name of this species was changed by Thomas (1873, 82) from bicolor to coloradus, the former name being
									preoccupied in Stenobothrus. It is therefore mentioned by many
									of the older authors as Stenobothrus coloradus
									Thos. McNeill (1897, 224), when he founded the genus Amnphitornus, restored the original name bicolor. In
									many specimens the median dorsal stripe extends only to base of thorax. A variety
									having the dorsal surface wholly brown was given the name unicolor by Thomas (1873, 81).
							

							
								VI. AMBLYTROPIDIA
									Stål, 1873, 93, 107. (Gr., "blunt" + "keel.")

								Species of medium size having the head short, obtuse, feebly ascending; vertex
									with disk convex, sides not raised, median carina low; apex declivent and rounded
									into the frontal costa, the latter wide, not sulcate, its margins parallel;
									antennæ filiform, rather stout, not flattened, slightly shorter than head and
									thorax in both sexes; pronotum with disk flat, hind margin sharply but obtusely
									angulate, median carina distinct, cut near the middle, lateral carinæ parallel,
									low but evident; lateral lobes slightly higher than long, front and hind margins
									nearly vertical, lower one with front portion strongly ascending; tegmina and
									wings surpassing the tip of abdomen; hind femora stout, their outer face convex;
									hind tibiæ with 13 to 15 spines on outer margin; subgenital plate of male conical,
									subacute, feebly ascending, not longer than the preceding segment; valves of
									ovipositor exserted.
								Kirby (1910, 114) recognizes 13 species, two of them, one of which
									is a synonym, from the United States, the others from Mexico, Central and South
									America.

								
									94. AMBLYTROPIDIA OCCIDENTALIS
										(Saussure), 1861, 317. Blunt-headed Locust.

									Rather robust, moderately compressed. Color variable, ranging from
										blackish-brown to ashy-gray, the females usually a seal-brown, often with the
										dorsal surface dull clay-yellow; median carina and upper fourth of  lateral lobes of pronotum, outer face of hind
										femora and apical third of antennæ and tibiæ more or less fuscous; tegmina,
										especially of female, often with small fuscous mottlings; lower face of hind
										femora red. Structural characters as above given. Length of body, ♂, 19--24, ♀,
										27--32; of antennæ, ♂, 7--7.5, ♀, 6--6.5; of pronotum, ♂, 4.2--4.8, ♀, 5--6; of
										tegmina, ♂, 17--19, ♀, 20--23; of hind femora, ♂, 13--15.5, ♀, 17--20 mm.
								

								In Florida this sombre-brown Tryxalid has been taken by me at every place
									collections have been made, and, judging from the numerous records, it doubtless
									occurs throughout the State, including the southern keys. About Dunedin it is one
									of the most common Acrididæ of the winter months, occurring both as adult and
									nymph in old fields and open pine woods. The adults, when flushed, often fly long
									distances and frequently dive headlong into a tuft of grass where they attempt to
									burrow out of sight. In the pine woods, however, they often remain motionless
									until closely approached, depending upon their color resemblance to that of the
									pine needles for protection.
								The range of occidentalis is given by McNeill as "the Gulf
									States north to Tennessee and Georgia and west to Colorado and Arizona." His
									mention of the last two states was evidently a mistake as it cannot be
									substantiated from any other source, and the only Tennessee record extant is that
									of the type by Saussure. It occurs, however, as far northeast as southeastern
									Virginia, where Fox (1917) found it in late autumn near Deanes and
									Gilmerton in "the low grassy undergrowth of open woodlands of oak, loblolly pine
									and sweet gum." North of Florida its known range is therefore from Virginia west
									and south to Tennessee, Arkansas, Oklahoma and Texas, it having been recorded from
									Bonita, Denison, Houston and Dallas, in the latter State. Scudder's type of A. subhyalina (1875g, 511), now recognized as a synonym of occidentalis, was from the last named place.
								The Chlœaltis canadensis of Provancher (1876,
									135), described from Quebec, Can., is stated by Scudder (1877a,
										88) to be the same as his A. subhyalina. If so, it must
									have been based on introduced specimens, as it has not since been noted north of
									Virginia. The description of the Stenobothrus subconspersus of
										F. Walker (1870, 755) from St. John's Bluff, Fla., agrees in most
									particulars with A. occidentalis and it also may be regarded as
									a synonym.
							

							
								Tribe III. ORPHULI.

								Rather slender, small or medium sized species, having the antennæ short,
									filiform, rarely somewhat flattened toward base; 
									head horizontal, shorter than thorax; vertex without a median carina, its sides
									distinctly raised above the level of disk; foveolæ wanting or invisible from
									above; face but moderately oblique; pronotum with lateral carinæ always distinct,
									usually curved inward at middle, supplementary carinæ absent; tegmina often
									abbreviated, their costal area not dilated; wings transparent, their radial veins
									in apical third swollen and constricted in the males.

								
									Fig. 83. Structures of Tryxalinæ. a, Disk of pronotum of Dichromorpha; b, same of Clinocephalus; c, tip of abdomen of Pseudopomala from below; d, same of Tryxalis; e, disc of pronotum of female of Mecostethus platypterus; f, same of M. lineatus; g, side view of head of female of
											Orphulella pelidna; h, dorsal view of head
										and pronotum of Eritettix simplex. (After
											Morse and Walden.)
								

								
									KEY TO EASTERN GENERA OF ORPHULI.

									a. Pronotum with prozona not much longer than metazona, the lateral
										lobes deeper than long; lateral carina strongly incurved at or near middle;
										tegmina and wings subequal to or longer than abdomen; foveolæ of vertex more or
										less evident. I. ORPHULELLA.
									Pronotum with prozona distinctly longer than metazona, the
										lateral lobes longer or fully as long as deep; lateral carinæ parallel or but
										feebly incurved; tegmina normally abbreviated, shorter than abdomen; foveolæ of
										vertex wanting.
									b. Lateral carinæ of pronotum parallel throughout (Fig. 83, a.); lateral lobes vertical or nearly so, flat above and meeting the
										disk at nearly a right angle; tegmina usually much shorter than abdomen in both
										sexes. II. DICHROMORPHA.
									bb. Lateral carinæ feebly but distinctly diverging on metazona (Fig. 83,
											b); lateral lobes slightly convex above; tegmina nearly as
										long as abdomen in male. III. CLINOCEPHALUS.
								
							

							
								I. ORPHULELLA
									Giglio-Tos, 1894, 10. (Gr., Orphula + "little.")

								Vertex nearly horizontal, never extending in front of eyes a distance greater
									than its own width; lateral foveolæ usually distinct as narrowly triangular
									impressed spaces on side margins of  vertex, but
									invisible from above; frontal costa rather high, often sulcate only in the region
									of the ocellus; antennæ filiform, sometimes feebly depressed and acuminate;
									pronotum with median carina sharp, cut in or just behind the middle, its lateral
									carinæ diverging both on prozona and metazona so that the center of disk is
									notably narrower than either the front or hind margin; lateral lobes no longer
									than high, their front margin oblique, nearly straight, hind one less oblique,
									more or less sinuate, lower one plainly angulate near middle, its front portion
									strongly ascending; tegmina very narrow, the intercalary vein wanting, the upper
									ulnar vein apically joining the lower ulnar much beyond the end of baso-discal
									field; hind femora of medium size, surpassing tip of abdomen; hind tibiæ with 10
									to 12 spines on outer margin, their inner apical spurs subequal; subgenital plate
									of male shorter than preceding segment, its apex broadly rounded; valves of
									ovipositor moderately exserted.
								An American genus of large size to which Kirby (1910, 119)
									accredited 41 species, 13 from the United States, the others from the West Indies,
									Mexico, Central and South America. It is the most widely distributed genus of
									North American Tryxalinæ, and the most abundant in species. However, only four are
									definitely known from the Eastern States.

								
									Fig. 84. Structures of Tryxalinæ. a, Ensiform antennæ of Pseudopomala; b, same of male of Tryxalis; c, head of Chorthippus,
										showing foveola; d, tip of female abdomen of Chlœaltis abdominalis; e and f,
										dorsal views of head and pronotum of Orphuella olivacea; g and h, same of O. pelidna;
											i and j, same of O.
											speciosa. (After Morse.)
								

								
									KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF ORPHULELLA.

									a. Lateral carinæ of pronotum distinctly more widely separated at hind
										margin than at front one; vertex in both sexes with its apex acute or
										rectangular (Fig. 84, e to h); lateral
										foveolæ distinct; tegmina longer than abdomen.
									b. Prozona and metazona subequal in length; antennæ as long as  or longer than head and pronotum together, feebly
										if at all flattened, not acuminate at apex. 95. PELIDNA.
									bb. Prozona longer than metazona; antennæ shorter than head and pronotum
										together, strongly flattened on basal half, their apical fourth distinctly
										acuminate.
									c. Tegmina distinctly surpassing the tips of hind femora, rarely
										maculate along the discoidal area; pronotal lateral carinæ entire. 96. OLIVACEA.
									cc. Tegmina just reaching, female, or feebly surpassing, male, the tips
										of hind femora, and with numerous quadrate fuscous spots along the discoidal
										area; lateral carinæ usually widely interrupted on the prozona. 97. HALOPHILA.
									aa. Lateral carinæ of pronotum but slightly more widely separated at
										hind margin than at front one; vertex of female with apex blunt, rounded, of
										male, rectangular (Fig. 84, i, j); foveolæ indistinct; tegmina
										rarely exceeding the abdomen; prozona longer than metazona. 98.
												SPECIOSA.
								

								
									95. ORPHULELLA PELIDNA
										(Burmeister), 1838, 650. Spotted-winged Locust.

									Slender, compressed, the male distinctly the smaller. Head and disk of
										pronotum either brown or green; a broad reddish-brown or black band behind the
										eye reaches back to hind margin of pronotum, this limited above by the whitish
										lateral carinæ; sides of pronotum below the band brownish; metazona with an
										elongate triangular black spot each side; tegmina either brown or largely green,
										usually with a median row of equidistant subquadrate black spots, and often a
										few black spots below the median ones; abdomen reddish-brown, the sides spotted
										with black; hind femora reddish-brown with traces of fuscous cross-bars; hind
										tibiæ pale brown, annulate with whitish near base. Vertex with margin distinctly
										raised above the disk, its central depression removed from apex one-third to
										one-fourth the width of vertex; antennæ but little depressed, slightly longer
										than head and pronotum, the middle joints three to four times as long as wide.
										Hind femora of male extending 2--3 mm. beyond end of abdomen, slightly exceeded
										by the tegmina; hind femora and tegmina of female slightly surpassing the tip of
										abdomen. Other structural characters as given in key. Length of body, ♂,
										14.5--21, ♀, 17--24; of antennæ, ♂, 5--7.5, ♀, 5.5--7; of tegmina, ♂, 13--17, ♀,
										15--20; of hind femora, ♂, 9--12, ♀, 11--14 mm. (Fig. 85.)
								

								Although this small spotted locust is said to occur in abundance in the United
									States east of the Rocky Mountains, it is seldom met with in Indiana. I have taken
									it but twice within the State, viz., July 21, 1897, when it was found in abundance
									about the margins of a small lake in one of the valleys among the sand dunes near
									Millers, Lake Co., and July 16, 1912, in some low meadows near Bass Lake, Starke
									Co. When flushed it uses both wings and legs, and when close pressed often burrows
									into the fallen grass in an attempt to escape detection. Of 22 specimens  taken but four were females, three of these being of
									the green variety. Five of the males were also partly green, the remainder brown
									and fuscous.
								In Florida 0. pelidna is a common insect everywhere throughout
									the mainland and on the adjacent keys. It is also found in various parts of Cuba
									and the Isle of Pines. About Dunedin it occurs in small numbers throughout the
									winter but becomes more frequent in February and March, when it is found
									especially in grassland which is becoming green, after having been recently burned
									over. Some of the specimens taken in such places are almost black, their hue then
									corresponding very closely to that of the charred and blackened soil.

								
									Fig. 85. Female. X 1.5. (After Lugger.)
								

								The range of 0. pelidna north of Florida is about as wide as
									that of any other North American locust, it having been recorded from various
									parts of New England to Texas, New Mexico and Los Angeles, Cal. It is known also
									from Sarnia, Ontario, Minnesota and Colorado, and between the limits of these
									records it may be looked for anywhere. Morse (1896, 409) states that
									in New England pelidna "begins to appear about the middle of
									July, being a week or two later than speciosa, and may be found
									during the remainder of the season. It is an active and alert species, leaping
									well and also flying freely and well, sometimes for two or three rods. It is found
									on the drier portions of the land adjoining salt marshes, on the more densely
									grassed portions of ground just inshore of the sandy beaches, and on sandy or
									loamy soil farther inland."
								The only reference to the stridulation of pelidna which can be
									found is by Walker (1902a, 252) as follows: "The males produced a
									rapid, rattling sound when flying, like the various members of the Oedipodinæ, but
									the sound did not last more than a second."
								The 0. pratorum
									Scudder (1899, 179, 186) was separated from pelidna
									only by the comparative length of the antennæ of male and by the greater size; his
									table giving "antennæ considerably longer than head and pronotum together" for pratorum, and "no longer or scarcely longer than head and pronotum
									together" for pelidna. As R. & H. (1910a, 627)
									have pointed out, almost all eastern specimens of what is generally known as pelidna would, by Scudder's antennal character, fall under pratorum. Specimens at hand from several localities sent in as pratorum cannot be separated by any 
									fixed character from pelidna, and I follow R. & H. in making Scudder's name a
									synonym. The Stenobothrus maculipennis and S.
										propinquans of Scudder (1862, 458, 461) were placed by their
									author in his "Catalogue" as synonyms of pelidna.

								
									96. ORPHULELLA OLIVACEA
										(Morse), 1893, 477. Olive Salt Marsh Locust.

									Elongate, slender, compressed. Above usually olive-brown, often pale green,
										paler brown below; a narrow dark postocular stripe usually extending back along
										the upper fourth of lateral lobes of pronotum; the black triangular spots on
										metazona, faint or wanting; tegmina, especially in the green specimens, often
										with a median row of small nearly confluent dusky spots for one-third to
										two-thirds their length; wings transparent, their veins dusky; antennæ dusky at
										tips. Vertex triangular, in male with sides strongly raised, acute-angled at
										apex, angulate near front border of eye (Fig. 84, e); in
										female, broader, the apex more obtusely angled. Frontal costa narrower and more
										deeply sulcate and angulate at junction with vertex, not rounded as in pelidna. Antennæ about equal in length to head and thorax.
										Pronotum with lateral carinæ low, converging from in front only to the first
										transverse sulcus, then distinctly diverging to hind margin which is very feebly
										rounded; all the carinæ cut slightly behind the middle, the metazona two-thirds
										the length of prozona. Tegmina surpassing tips of hind femora 2--3 mm. Length of
										body, ♂, 16.5--20, ♀, 21--28; of antennæ, ♂, 6--7, ♀, 6; of tegmina, ♂, 14--17,
										♀, 17--21; of hind femora, ♂, 10--11, ♀, 12--14.5 mm.
								

								Greenwich, Conn., Aug. 25--28 (Morse). A submaritime species
									described from Connecticut and ranging along the ocean border of the coastwise
									states from Massachusetts to Corpus Christi, Texas. In Florida it has been
									recorded only from Pablo Beach, Cedar Keys, Fort Barrancas and Warrington, Aug.
									4--15. Morse (loc. cit.) says: "It was locally very plentiful in the
									salt marshes, its green and olivaceous tints closely matching in color the marsh
									grasses in which it made its home. The ground beneath was often overflowed at high
									tide, and offered a retreat to myriads of fiddler crabs, being much wetter and of
									a wholly different character from the situations frequented by pelidna and speciosa." Later (1904, 30) he calls it "a
									maritime species of austral origin and distribution, ranging from Darien to the
									Bermudas, and known on our coast from Connecticut to western Florida. It is a
									halophilous campestrian species found only in salt marshes or along the shores of
									brackish inlets, often plentiful locally. This species, with its companions Paroxya atlantica and floridana and Orchelimum herbaceum, are characteristic of the Juncus
									fringes of the tidal inlets and pools of the southern coast, equally quick to seek
									safety in flight, or if hard pressed, to drop downward into the protecting shelter
									at the bases of the tall, sharp pointed culms."



								

								
									97. ORPHULELLA HALOPHILA
										Rehn & Hebard, 1916, 166. Salt-loving Locust.

									Size medium, form of female robust for the genus. Color very variable,
										ground hue of males usually brown, of females greenish-yellow or green to brown;
										discoidal area of tegmina in most specimens with a row of large subquadrate
										fuscous blotches for three-fourths or more its length, these often accompanied
										by a row of smaller similar spots above and below; sides of head and upper
										fourth of pronotal lateral lobes usually with a postocular dark stripe as in pelidna, these and the triangular spots on metazona more
										distinct in green individuals; outer face of hind femora with more or less
										distinct oblique fuscous bars. Vertex much as in olivacea,
										slightly wider than there and with apex less acute in the male. Frontal costa
										narrow and sulcate throughout, male, wider, more feebly sulcate and divergent
										below, female. Antennæ as in olivacea, less strongly but
										distinctly tapering near apex. Lateral carinæ of pronotum usually broadly
										interrupted at middle of prozona, feebly converging to the second transverse
										sulcus then distinctly divergent to the hind margin. Tegmina just reaching or
										exceeding by 1 mm. the tips of hind femora. Length of body, ♂, 17.5--19, ♀,
										21.5--26; of antennæ, ♂ and ♀, 6.5--7; of pronotum, ♂, 3.5--3.8, ♀, 4.3--5; of
										tegmina, ♂, 13.5--15.5, ♀, 17--20; of hind femora, ♂, 9.5--11.5, ♀, 13--15.5 mm.
										(Fig. 87, A.)
								

								Dunedin and Key West, Fla., Dec. 12--March 14 (W. S. B.). At
									Dunedin this seaside Tryxalid has been taken only about the middle of Hog Island,
									two miles or more from the mainland. There it occurs along the low sandy stretches
									just inside the border of mangroves which fringe the eastern side of the island.
									These sandy areas are often overflowed at high tide, and are scantily covered with
									a species of wire-grass and a fleshy-leaved seaside plant, Batis
										maritima L. Here the locust and the fiddler crabs flourish together in
									harmony, the former having been taken on several occasions throughout the winter.
									In life the females are often a purplish-gray with the numerous black blotches of
									tegmina standing out prominently and giving the owner a strikingly mottled
									appearance. At Key West the species was abundant in early March in company with
										O. pelidna among the scattered vegetation growing on the coral
									rocks northeast of the city.
								As the specific name indicates, C. halophila is, like olivacea, a submaritime species, and is recorded by R. &
										H. (loc. cit.) from Punta Gorda, Key West and other islands south of
									Florida; Corpus Christi and Point Isabel, Texas, and Tampico, Mexico. It replaces
										olivacea, of which it may prove to be only a southern variety,
									along the coasts and on the keys of southern Florida, but occurs in company with
									it at Corpus Christi, Texas.

								
									98. ORPHULELLA SPECIOSA
										(Scudder), 1862, 458. Pasture Locust.

									Shorter and smaller than pelidna. Ground color either
										green or brown as in that species; tegmina either brown, green or purplish-red,
											 the median row of spots smaller, fewer in
										number, often wanting; dark bar behind eye more faint than in pelidna, seldom crossing onto the metazona; hind femora greenish or
										brownish, not banded; hind tibiæ dull brown or yellowish, without paler ring
										near base. Vertex broader and blunter than in pelidna, the
										margins scarcely raised above the disk, often with a faint median carina on its
										front half, the central depression close to apex (Fig. 84, i.)
										Antennæ about as long as head and pronotum, plainly flattened, the middle
										segments nearly twice as long as broad, the apical fourth tapering. Median
										carina of pronotum cut slightly behind the middle by the principal sulcus.
										Tegmina usually reaching tip of abdomen, female, tip of hind femora, male, often
										shorter. Length of body, ♂, 13--15, ♀, 17--21; of antennæ, ♂, 4.5--6.5, ♀,
										5--6.5; of tegmina, ♂, 11--13, ♀, 11--16; of hind femora, ♂, 9--10, ♀, 10--12
										mm.
								

								Of this species, usually abundant where found, only three specimens have been
									collected by me in Indiana, and it is known from only three locations in the
									State. A male and female were taken July 25 from the side of a railway a mile
									southeast of Hammond, Lake Co., and a single male near Bass Lake, Starke Co., Aug.
									30. Fox (1915, 22) records the taking of four specimens near
									Lafayette from dry, open, grassy tracts on untilled land. Its scarcity in Indiana
									is strange as Hart (1907, 231) states that it is found in "all
									Illinois, especially on dry soils; taken at light."
								The records of the species show its known range to extend from New England, where
									it is apparently very common, north and west to Toronto, Ont.,38 Minnesota and western Nebraska, and
									south and southwest to Virginia, Shreveport, La., northern Alabama, and
									northwestern Arkansas, where McNeill (1899, 53) mentions it as
									occurring only in a few widely scattered localities. In northern Illinois he found
									it confined to the tops and sides of hills. Morse calls it "a northern offshoot of
									an austral genus adapted to more boreal conditions," and has written of it (1896,
									410) as reaching maturity in New England the first week in July, and being "one of
									the most plentiful and wide-spread of our locusts, but owing to its small size and
									non-migratory habits, it does not attract the attention given to the larger and
									consequently more destructive species. While somewhat local, it is found nearly
									everywhere on dry, sandy or loamy soils. It moves chiefly by leaping, but readily
									takes wing on occasion, flying, however, but a few feet. Active and alert in the
									hot, sunny weather of mid-summer, it can best be secured by sweeping the net
									rapidly over the ground, a dozen or more specimens being the result of a few
									minutes work."

								38Scudder (1899,
										184) records it from Nova Scotia on the authority of Piers, but the
									latter author (1918, 265) says there is no known definite record of its occurrence
									in that Province.


								

								The principal Synonyms of speciosa are Stenobothrus cequalis and bilineatus
									Scudder (1862, 459, 460) and S. gracilis
									Scudder (1872, 250).
							

							
								II. DICHROMORPHA
									Morse, 1896, 326. (Gr., "two" + "colored.")

								Vertex much shorter than broad, its sides strongly elevated, meeting in front in
									a blunt point, median carina and lateral foveolæ wholly wanting; frontal costa
									feebly sulcate, narrowed above the antennæ, its sides subparallel; antennæ about
									the length of head and pronotum together, the joints moderately flattened;
									pronotum with disk flat, the carinæ distinct, straight, parallel, all cut behind
									middle by the principal sulcus; lateral lobes perpendicular, longer than deep, the
									front and hind margins strongly oblique, the latter plainly sinuate, lower margin
									strongly undulate; tegmina usually more or less aborted, rarely reaching the end
									of abdomen; hind femora stout, not banded; hind tibiæ with ten spines on outer
									margin, the inner apical spurs subequal; subgenital plate of male short, conical,
									ascending, obtusely pointed; valves of ovipositor strongly exserted.

								
									99. DICHROMORPHA VIRIDIS
										(Scudder), 1862, 455. Short-winged Green Locust.

									A medium sized robust species, the male much the smaller Color of male dull
										brown, disk of pronotum and dorsal field of tegmina usually bright green, rarely
										brown, face pale yellowish-brown; female either bright green or dirty brown,
										often with a narrow dark line beginning behind the eye and running along the
										upper portion of lateral lobe of pronotum; the green form sometimes with sides
										of abdomen and upper face of hind femora blotched with fuscous. Tegmina
										ovate-lanceolate, about half the length of abdomen, female, three-fourths its
										length, male; very rarely reaching to or beyond the tip of abdomen. Hind femora
										reaching tip of abdomen, female, surpassing it one-third their length, male.
										Length of body, ♂, 15--16, ♀, 23--27; of antennæ, ♂ and ♀, 6.5--8.5; of
										pronotum, ♂, 4, ♀, 6; of tegmina, ♂, 6--9, ♀, 8--9; of hind femora, ♂,
										9.5--11.5, ♀, 14--15 mm. (Fig. 86.)
								

								This is a common locust throughout Indiana, frequenting the borders of open
									woods, fence rows, roadsides, and especially the vicinity of the coarse grasses
									which grow along the margins of lakes, ponds and other wet places. There, as long
									as motionless, they are invisible, and there they flourish in peace and countless
									numbers. In southern Indiana D. viridis reaches maturity by July
									1st, and the sexes may be found mating from then until after heavy frost. The
									brown female far outnumbers the green one in this State, especially during the
									autumn days, when their hues  correspond so closely
									to the dead leaves which cover their haunts of the summer months. The green backed
									males are, however, the prevailing form of that sex at all seasons. The
									long-winged form has not, as yet, been taken in Indiana. The wings of the other
									form are too short for flight, and it tries to escape when disturbed only by
									leaping clumsily.
								In Florida it is also common, having been taken by me at Sanford, Lakeland,
									Sarasota and Dunedin and recorded from numerous stations on the mainland as far
									south as Fort Myers, Citrus Center and Palm Beach. About Dunedin both nymphs and
									adults are found throughout the winter, usually along the margins of ponds and wet
									depressions in old fields and open pine woods. There the brown form of the male
									occurs more plentifully than in Indiana, and pairs have been noted mating in
									December.

								
									Fig. 86. Female. X 1.5. (After Lugger.)
								

								North of Florida the known range of D. viridis extends from
									Massachusetts and southern New Hampshire, west to Minnesota and middle Nebraska
									and south and southwest to northwestern Arkansas, central Oklahoma and Houston,
									Texas. It has not been recorded from Canada nor from Michigan, though it doubtless
									occurs in the southern part of that State. The long-winged form, punctulata
									Scudder (1862, 455) appears to be very scarce outside of New England,
									and is apparently confined to the female sex. Morse (1896, 383)
									reports that out of 330 New England adults in his collection 20 are macropterous
									females with tegmina averaging 19 mm. in length, five being brown and 15 green;
									the others all brachypterous, 13 males and 43 females being of the brown and 147
									males and 107 females of the green phase. The brown form is the Chlœaltis brunnea
									Scudder (1875g, 510) described from Dallas, Texas. The Truxalis angusticornis
									Stål (1873, 105) described from South Carolina is also a synonym.
								When the late spring and early summer have been more than usually damp in
									Indiana, hundreds of dead and dying specimens of D. viridis and
									of Melanoplus bivittatus (Say), are often to be seen inflate
									July in the tops of iron weeds. They are principally females, and their death is
									probably due to the insect fungus, Entomophthora calopteni
									Bessey, an interesting account of which appeared in Bull. 22, U. S. Dept.
										Agr., 1890, 104. The disease is, perhaps, more abundant on account of the
									young being exposed  to so much dampness in May and
									June. In two instances females of Melanoplus differentialis
									(Thos.) have been discovered feeding upon the dead bodies of D.
										viridis, the abdomen and soft portions of thorax having been wholly
									devoured.

								
									Fig. 87 . A, Orphulella halophila R. & H., female; B, Clinocephalus elegans Morse, male, X 1.5. (After R. &
										H.)
								
							

							
								III. CLINOCEPHALUS
									Morse, 1896, 326. (Gr.,"inclined" + "head.")

								Medium sized, robust species, having the vertex horizontal, triangular, shorter
									than the interocular width, its sides strongly elevated, angulate opposite front
									margin of eyes, apex acute or rectangular, male, blunt and rounded, female;
									frontal costa rather deeply sulcate, feebly narrowed and rounded into vertex;
									antennæ filiform, slender, slightly longer than head and pronotum, male, reaching
									metazona, female; pronotum longer than front femora, hind margin feebly rounded,
									carinæ all cut much behind the middle, the lateral ones parallel on prozona,
									feebly divergent on metazona, the latter one-half the length of prozona; lateral
									lobes with outline and margins as in Dichromorpha; tegmina and
									wings moderately developed but shorter than abdomen, both with ulnar area strongly
									widened at middle and discoidal area narrowed; hind femora stout, slightly
									surpassing the abdomen, female, more strongly so, male; hind tibiæ with 13 spines
									on outer margin, the inner apical spurs subequal; subgenital plate of male as in
										D. viridis; valves of ovipositor moderately exserted. One
									species is known.

								
									100. CLINOCEPHALUS ELEGANS
										Morse, 1896, 326, 402. Elegant Locust.

									Rather stout, feebly compressed, the male much the smaller. Light
										olive-green to dark greenish-brown; head with a shining dark brown postocular
										stripe each side, this extending back on upper fourth of pronotal lateral lobes;
										sometimes onto costal area of tegmina; brown forms rarely with marginal field of
										tegmina green. Tegmina variable in length, usually covering three-fourths or
										more of abdomen, but never extending beyond its tip. Length of body, ♂,
										17--20.5, ♀, 21--28; of antennæ, ♂, 7.5--8, ♀, 5--6; of tegmina, ♂, 10.5--12.5,
										♀, 12--17.5; of hind femora, ♂, 10--12.5, ♀, 12.5--17.5 mm. (Fig. 87, B.)
								

								A submaritime species taken by me only at Dunedin, Fla., Oct. 23--Jan. 29. Ranges
									from Long Island, N. Y., to Dickinson, Texas, 
									usually along the coast line but sometimes inland (Fayetteville, N. Car., and
									Stonewall, Miss.) for 85 or more miles. In Florida it has been recorded from
									numerous points along the Atlantic Coast from Jacksonville to Key West, along the
									Gulf Coast from Pensacola to Fort Myers, and inland from Gainesville, Lakeland and
									LaBelle. At Dunedin one or two pairs have been taken on several occasions on Hog
									Island, where it was found among dense clumps of a tall grass. One brown female,
									collected Oct. 23, has a broad median, dark brown stripe extending from tip of
									vertex back to middle of dorsal field of tegmina, this bordered each side by a
									slightly narrower stripe of dull clay-yellow.
								Fox (1917, 211) says of it: "This species, in spite of its usual
									occurrence within the range of tidal influence, is not a true maritime form. Its
									favorite haunts are the low, damp or marshy tracts forming the border zones of
									tidal marshes where fresh water prevails, and where the species shows a marked
									preference for the somewhat restricted areas occupied by the marsh spikegrass, Distichlis spicata (L.), but also occurs in somewhat smaller
									numbers in the more extensive areas of Scirpus americanus Pers.
									and Spartina patens (Ait.) and much less frequently in the tall
									reeds, Spartina cynosuroides (L.). In true salt marsh--namely,
									that occupied by the smooth marsh-grass, S. glabra Muhl.--it
									does not normally occur. Occasionally it is taken in inland localities; thus, at
									Tappahannock two adults were observed in a grassy fresh water bog fully four miles
									from the river."
								The Clinocephalus pulcher
									R. & H. (1905, 36), described from Miami, Fla., is conceded by
									its authors (1916, 172) to be a synonym of elegans.
							

							
								Tribe IV. CHORTHIPPI.

								As represented in the eastern States this tribe embraces Tryxalinæ, of rather
									small size, having the vertex with median carina absent or very faint, foveolæ
									always present, large and visible from above (Fig. 84, c); face more nearly
									vertical than in the preceding tribes; antennæ filiform, sometimes flattened
									toward base, never strongly tapering; median carina of pronotum low but distinct,
									cut in or behind the middle by the principal sulcus; intercalary vein of tegmina
									present but not strong.

								
									KEY TO EASTERN GENERA OF CHORTHIPPI.

									a. Lateral carinæ of pronotum present and almost equally distinct on
										both prozona and metazona; inner apical spurs of hind tibiæ subequal in length;
										broadest part of male tegmina lying beyond the middle. I. CHORTHIPPUS.


									

									aa. Lateral carinæ distinct only on metazona, absent or very faint on
										prozona; inner apical spurs of hind tibiæ very unequal, the second or inferior
										nearly twice the length of first; broadest part of male tegmina situated at the
										middle. II. AGENEOTETTIX.
								
							

							
								I. CHORTHIPPUS
									Fieber, 1852, 1. (Gr., "grass" + "horse.")

								Slender bodied species, having the vertex triangular, its apex obtuse, female,
									acute, male; foveolæ present as distinct, narrow, oblong impressions; frontal
									costa wide, sulcate only around or below the ocellus; antennæ flattened toward
									base, subequal in length to, female, or much longer than head and pronotum, male;
									pronotum with median carina distinct, cut very slightly behind middle by the
									principal sulcus; lateral carinæ incurved so that the middle of disk is narrower
									than either the fore or hind margin; lateral lobes of pronotum about as long as
									deep, their front margin oblique, straight, hind and lower margins sinuate;
									tegmina variable in length, usually fully developed in male; wings a little
									shorter than tegmina; hind femora rather slender, not transversely barred; hind
									tibiæ with 12--13 spines on outer margin; subgenital plate of male conical,
									obtuse, ascending; valves of ovipositor short, plainly exserted.
								The generic name Chorthippus
									Fieber (1852) is in part at least synonymous with Stenobothrus
									Fischer (1853) and the American species ascribed by Scudder in his
									Catalogue to Stenobothrus are now to be referred to the present
									genus. Many of the early American writers accredited to Stenobothrus numerous species now recognized as belonging to other genera,
										Thomas (1873) having so placed no less than 16 species. As at
									present limited, Stenobothrus is not represented in America.

								
									101. CHORTHIPPUS CURTIPENNIS
										(Harris), 1835, 56. Marsh Meadow Locust.

									Small, slender, compressed. Color exceedingly variable, usually light brown
										above, with a black bar each side extending back from eye along the upper half
										of lateral lobe of pronotum;beneath yellowish, the sides of abdomen spotted with
										black and hind knees of the same color; face and lower sides of pronotum
										sometimes gray or even green; antennæ brownish-yellow at base, the apical halves
										brown or black. Vertex often with a faint trace of a median carina. Lateral
										carinæ of pronotum converging on the prozona to first sulcus, then diverging to,
										hind margin which is obtusely angulate. Tegmina in most females about
										three-fourths the length of abdomen, in males usually reaching tip of abdomen,
										though they may be longer or shorter in either sex. Hind femora in short-winged
										male surpassing tegmina 2--3, in female, 3--5 mm., in long-winged form reaching
										to or surpassing tips of tegmina 1--2 mm. The males are apt to be mistaken for
										those of Chlœaltis conspersa, but may be easily distinguished
										by the presence of foveolæ, narrower black bar on sides of pronotum and  smaller and more slender body. Length of body, ♂,
										13--15, ♀, 15--24; of antennæ, ♂, 8.5--10.5, ♀, 6.5--8; of tegmina, ♂, 8.5--15,
										♀, 7--16; of hind femora, ♂, 10.5--11.8, ♀, 11.5--14 mm.
								

								This is a very common locust throughout northern Indiana, but has not been taken
									south of Putnam and Vigo counties. It abides in low, wet prairies, swales, damp
									meadows, and especially in the vicinity of tamarack swamps. These conditions of
									local habitat are common in the northern half of the State, but scarce or wanting
									in the southern half, except in the extensive lowlands along the Wabash River in
									Knox and Gibson counties, but there the locust seems to be absent. In Putnam
									County it occurs in blue-grass pastures along the banks of streams in open
									woodland, and begins to reach maturity about June 20th. By July 1st, it has become
									fairly common, and it may be taken until mid-October or even later, if the frosts
									are not too severe. In Indiana the male seems everywhere less abundant than the
									female, and is an active and noiseless flier. The female, being usually shorter
									winged, endeavors to escape by leaping and tumbling, and, says McNeill, "its
									astonishing facility as a tumbler and contortionist generally discourages all but
									the most determined efforts for its capture."
								If the records can be relied upon, the range of C. curtipennis
									is almost as great as that of any other North American locust. It is mainly,
									however, an inhabitant of the Transition and Canadian zones, and of mountainous
									regions where similar climatic conditions prevail. It occurs in all parts of New
									England, and is found from Cape Ray, Newfoundland (Hebard.
										1915a) north and west in Canada to Nipigon, Ont., and Vernon, B. C., it
									being by far the most abundant Orthopteron in the less dry parts of Saskatchewan
									and Alberta (Walker). In the United States it is known to occur
									as far west as Soldier Mountain, Idaho and Sappington, Mont., and southwest to
									Beulah, N. Mex. In the eastern States it is not known south of the mountains of
									North Carolina, where it ranges from an altitude of "about 3,200 feet to the
									highest points in the State where suitable environment occurs." From Maryland west
									to eastern Nebraska it is not recorded south of central Indiana and central
									Illinois. At Pequaming, Mich., Hebard found it fairly swarming by the middle of
									July in meadows of tall grass, and was able at any time to take a dozen or more
									with a few sweeps of the net.
								Scudder (1874, 373) has given a description of the song habits of
										curtipennis as follows: "When about to stridulate, these
									insects place themselves in a nearly horizontal position, with the head a little
									elevated; they then raise both hind legs together, the  hind tibiæ bent back snugly against the femora during the movement,
									and grate the thighs against the outer surface of the tegmina. The first one or
									two movements are frequently noiseless or faint. In sunny weather the notes are
									produced at the rate of about six a second, are continued from one and a half to
									two and a half seconds, and when undisturbed are repeated with intermissions of
									from five to six seconds (Fig. 81, c.). When the sky is overcast
									the movements are less rapid."
								Piers (1918, 269) says that the stridulation or call of curtipennis "sounds like the lisping syllables thru, thru,
										thru, repeated from about seven to ten times and lasting altogether three
									or four seconds. It is a soft, dreamy, lulling sound of the country and quite
									characteristic of a quiet, hot forenoon in August and September and is still heard
									(in Nova Scotia) in October."
								The Stenobothrus longipennis
									Scudder (1862, 457) was a name given to the long-winged form and the
										S. coloradensis
									McNeill (1897, 262) is a synonym.
							

							
								II. AGENEOTETTIX
									McNeill, 1897a, 71. (Gr., "beardless" +  "grasshopper.")

								Short, rather stout species having the vertex feebly declivent, its sides sharp
									and meeting in front almost at a right angle, lateral foveolæ very distinct,
									rectangular or four-sided, about twice as long as broad; frontal costa with sides
									feebly diverging from vertex to clypeus, sulcate only around and below the
									ocellus; antennæ slightly, female, or distinctly, male, longer than head and
									pronotum together; pronotum with median carina, cut once behind the middle by the
									principal sulcus, lateral carinæ strongly sinuate or curved inward, hind margin of
									metazona broadly rounded or obtusely angulate; lateral lobes of pronotum deeper
									than long, their front and hind margins nearly straight and vertical, lower margin
									with its front half strongly ascending; tegmina and wings well developed, slightly
									shorter than or equalling the abdomen, female, usually slightly surpassing its
									tip, male; hind femora rather stout, distinctly surpassing the tip of abdomen,
									male, equalling it, female; hind tibiæ with 9--11 spines on outer margin;
									subgenital plate of male broadly, obtusely conical; valves of ovipositor but
									little exserted, the tip only being visible.
								Kirby (1910, 134) accredits six species to Ageneotettix, all from the United States. Of these only the Chrysochraon deorum
									Scudd. (1876a, 262) occurs east of the Mississippi. An examination of
									the types of three of the others, viz., Aulocara scudderi
									
									Bruner (1890, 63), Ageneotettix occidentalis
									Bruner (1904, 58) and A. arenosus
									Hancock (1906a, 255) shows that they are only forms of deorum, which were separated mainly on the widely variable characters of
									wing length, color, number of spines on hind tibiæ and degree of the apical angle
									of fastigium.

								
									102. AGENEOTETTIX DEORUM
										(Scudder), 1876a, 262. Sand Locust.

									Short, rather stout species, the male moderately the smaller. General color
										dull brown above, yellowish-white below; tegmina brown or grayish-brown, usually
										with numerous small darker brown, quadrate spots, these sometimes almost
										confined to a median row; many specimens with a dull yellowish band reaching
										from vertex backward across the middle of occiput and pronotum to tip, of
										tegmina; sides of head usually with an indistinct blackish bar extending from
										eye back across the upper half of pronotal lateral lobes; metazona with a more
										or less distinct elongate triangular black spot each side; hind femora dull
										reddish-brown with three blackish crossbars on upper outer face; hind tibiæ
										bright coral red with a whitish basal ring, their knees deep black. Fastigium
										often more or less acute-angled, male, obtuse-angled, female. Length of body, ♂,
										10.5--15, ♀, 15--22; of antennæ, ♂, 8.5--10, ♀, 7--7.5; of tegmina, ♂, 7--11, ♀,
										9--14; of hind femora, ♂, 8--10.5, ♀, 9.5--12.5 mm. (Fig. 88.)
								

								Vigo Co., Ind., July-Oct. (W. S. B.) ; Chicago, Ill.,
									July--Aug. (Hancock); Lincoln, Neb., Sept. (Bruner). This small, dull colored locust has been taken in Indiana only
									from the sandy bed of the old Wabash and Erie Canal, five miles north of Terre
									Haute, Vigo County. Here it was first found on July 6, 1892, and afterward in
									September and October, 1893. On one side of the canal, at the point mentioned, was
									a large pond, occupying perhaps 50 acres of the Wabash River bottoms, and on the
									other side a sandy hill or bluff of the river, which was covered with typical
									prairie grasses and plants. The locust was found only in an area of about five
									acres, on the side of the hill, and in the bed of the canal. When disturbed it
									leaps vigorously, and without noise, for several times in succession; then
									settling down on a sandy spot, it will allow a close approach, evidently relying
									upon the similarity of color between its body and the sand to shield it from
									observation.
								
									Fig. 88. Male. X 1.5. (After Lugger.)
								
								The Vigo Co. and Chicago records are the most eastern for the species, though it
									probably occurs over other sand-covered areas in the western third of Indiana. Its
									known range extends from central-western Indiana north through Wisconsin and
									Minnesota to Aweme, Man., and Medicine Hat, Sask., west to Montana and southwest
									to Kansas, northern Texas and New Mexico. In 
									northern Illinois Hart (1907, 231) reports it as "abundant in all
									blowsand areas." R. & H. (1906, 372) mention it as one of the
									most plentiful species encountered in Montana and Colorado, occurring "in many of
									the arid localities and swarming on the prairies." Morse (1907, 32)
									calls it a "widely distributed species, locally common, especially on sandy soil
									with a sparse clothing of herbage," while Somes (1914, 31) says that
									in Minnesota it sometimes occurs in tall or close grasses, when it endeavors to
									escape by diving headlong to the ground and crawling among the stems.
								The Indiana and Chicago specimens (arenosus Hancock) are
									somewhat smaller and darker than those from Lincoln, Neb. (typical scudderi Brun.), but present no structural differences worthy of placing
									them as distinct; while Gillette and Bruner (1904) have doubtfully,
									and R. & H. (1906) more certainly expressed their opinion that
										scudderi is only a synonym of deorum.
							

							
								Tribe V. MECOSTETHI.

								Species of rather large size, having the head horizontal; vertex short, its disk
									with a distinct median carina; foveolæ very small, triangular, sometimes almost
									obsolete, situated on the base of each of the raised margins of vertex; face
									subvertical; lateral carinæ of pronotum usually less distinct than the median one,
									sometimes cut by all the sulci; tegmina well developed, always surpassing the
									abdomen, their intercalary vein stout, nearer the ulnar than the radial vein;
									inner apical spurs of hind tibiæ subequal. But one genus represents the tribe in
									our territory.
							

							
								I. MECOSTETHUS39
									Fieber, 1852, 1. (Gr., "long" + "breast.")

								In addition to the characters above given, our species of this genus agree in
									having the vertex horizontal, its sides raised and apex usually slightly rounded;
									antennæ filiform, equal to, female, or longer, male, than head and pronotum
									together; frontal costa wide, sulcate, with sides divergent below the ocellus;
									pronotum with disk rugose, median carina sharp, cut in or in front of middle by
									the principal sulcus, metazona as long as or longer than prozona, its hind margin
									obtusely angled; lateral lobes about as high as long, their front margins
									perpendicular, hind ones slightly oblique, lower ones with front half ascending;
									tegmina of male 39This generic name, which has been in common use in this country, has
										been recently replaced by Kirby, R. & H. and others by Arcyptera, Hebard stating (Ms.) that the type of Mecostethus is grossus, which is generically distinct.
											Kirby (1910o, 144) makes alliaceus Germ. the
										type of Mecostethus. As both Brunner (1893, 123)
										and Burr (1904, 321) make the presence of the intercalary vein in
											Mecostethus the principal character separating that genus
										from Arcyptera and allied genera, and as this vein is present
										and prominent in all our three species and has been used by Scudder, McNeill and
										others as the principal differential character of Mecostethus,
										I retain that generic name in preference to Arcyptera in
										which, according to Burr, the intercalary vein is absent.
									 with the prominent intercalary vein provided with a
									rasp for stridulating; prosternum usually with an obtuse tubercle between the
									front femora; hind femora rather long and slender, exceeding the abdomen, male,
									reaching base of ovipositor, female, their lower face usually coral red;
									subgenital plate of male acutely produced, being at least twice as long as its
									greatest width; valves of ovipositor strongly exserted, the upper pair with minute
									teeth along their upper margin. The three known American species, all described by
									Scudder, occur in the Eastern United States.

								
									KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF MECOSTETHUS.

									a. Median carina of pronotum cut in front of middle, the prozona shorter
										than the metazona (Fig. 83, f); lateral carinæ distinctly
										diverging on metazona.
									b. Tegmina with a pale submarginal stripe two-thirds their length along
										the costal area; intercalary vein of male with low, dull teeth; lateral carinæ
										cut by all three sulci in front of middle. 103. LINEATUS.
									bb. Tegmina without pale stripe; intercalary vein of male with longer
										sharp, minute, closely-set teeth; lateral carinæ cut only by first and third
										sulci. 104. GRACILIS.
									aa. Median carina of pronotum cut in the middle, the pro- and meta-zona
										subequal in length (Fig. 83, e);lateral carinæ subparallel,
										scarcely diverging behind, cut at middle only by third sulcus; costal area of
										tegmina without pale stripe. 105. PLATYPTERUS.
								

								
									103. MECOSTETHUS LINEATUS
										(Scudder), 1862, 462. Striped Sedge Locust.

									Rather robust, strongly compressed. General color dark purplish-brown; head
										with a narrow yellowish line extending from upper border of each eye back along
										the lateral carina of pronotum, this bordered below by an indistinct dark band
										along the upper half of lateral lobe; wings dusky, the basal half with a
										yellowish tinge; hind femora with outer face yellowish or reddish brown, darker
										above, lower face either yellowish or bright coral red, Knees black; hind tibiæ
										yellowish, annulate with paler near base, the spines black; females usually much
										darker than males, with yellow line on head and tegmina often obscure. Vertex
										wide, triangular, its apex subtruncate and rounded into frontal costa, foveolæ
										distinct. Pronotum strongly rugose, with lateral carinæ low, subparallel on
										prozona, distinctly diverging on metazona. Tegmina longer and narrower
										proportionally than in the other species. Hind femora slender, reaching or
										slightly passing tip of abdomen, female, surpassing it 2--3 mm., male. Length of
										body, ♂, 23--27, ♀, 34--38; of antennæ, ♂, 11--12, ♀, 10--11.5; of tegmina, ♂,
										21-26.5, ♀, 2,6--31.5; of hind femora, ♂, 14.5--18, ♀, 18--21 mm.
								

								This large and handsome Tryxalid occurs in isolated areas in the northern half of
									Indiana, where it is found only in low, boggy meadows, being more abundant in
									those bordering lakes or tamarack swamps. The males seem to far outnumber the
									females, and  are much more wild and active, taking
									to flight when a person is a dozen yards distant. They use the wings only in
									escaping, flying swiftly and noiselessly for 50 to 100 feet and alighting on the
									stems of the tall grasses and sedges among which they have'their homes. The only
									way in which I have been able to effect their capture was by running after them
									and swooping them with the net as they arose or before they had time to arrange
									their legs for the upward impetus at the beginning of a new flight. The females
									are more bulky and lubberly than the males, and are usually seen in more open
									places, where the grass is shorter, and hence are more easily taken. The earliest
									date at which mature specimens have been seen was July 13th, in Fulton County, and
									the latest, October 25th, near Bass Lake, Starke County, though they may occur
									both before and after these dates.
								The records show that M. lineatus occurs in suitable habitats
									over the greater part of New England and ranges from Nova Scotia north and west to
									Nipigon, Ontario, Red River, Manitoba, Minnesota and eastern Nebraska, and south
									to southern New Jersey and central Indiana, though Scudder gives its distribution
									as "Northern United States east of the Rocky Mountains." It is known from Isle
									Royale and Dickinson Co., Michigan, and appears to have been taken at only two or
									three localities in the northern third of Illinois and Iowa. Somes (1914,
										27) found it in numbers in all stages near Lake of the Woods, Minn., in
									July, and says that the "young are uniformly much darker than the adults, some
									being nearly black, and save for the peculiarly trim pronotum do not suggest the
									species."

								
									104. MECOSTETHUS GRACILIS
										(Scudder), 1862, 463. Graceful Sedge Locust.

									Shorter and proportionally stouter than lineatus. General
										color pale brown, the yellow markings of head and thorax less distinct; tegmina
										uniform brown; wings as in lineatus; hind femora
										reddish-brown, coral-red beneath and often within, knees fuscous; hind tibiæ
										dull yellow, with a pale ring near base. Vertex narrower, more pointed, its apex
										subacute, male, obtusely rounded, female, foveolæ longer, narrower, much less
										distinct; frontal costa more shallowly sulcate below the ocellus. Pronotum
										shorter, its disk less rugose, lateral carinæ more divergent on metazona.
										Tegmina shorter, broader, often not reaching tip of abdomen in female; teeth of
										intercalary vein of male very numerous, as high as wide, acutely pointed. Hind
										femora reaching tip of abdomen, male, middle of ovipositor, female. Length of
										body, ♂, 19--23, ♀, 26--33; of antennæ, ♂, 9--10, ♀, 8.5--9.5; of tegmina, ♂,
										16.5--21, ♀, 17--23.5; of hind femora, ♂ , 12--14, ♀, 14.5--16 mm.
								

								Greylock Mountain, Adams, Mass., Aug. 17 (Morse). The range of
										gracilis is about the same as that of M.
										lineatus but in  general more northern,
									extending from Newfoundland and Nova Scotia north and west through Canada to
									Edmonton, Alta., and in the United States from Maine to the Black Hills of South
									Dakota. West of New England it is not recorded south of Michigan and Minnesota,
									except from eastern Nebraska, where Bruner (1897) reported it as
									quite common in meadows and along streams.
								Of its habits in New England Morse (1896, 444) says: "Both sexes fly
									well, but the male is the more active and appears three or four times as
									plentiful. I have found it in wet sedgy meadows, in bushy swamps and on mountain
									tops. On Greylock it is common in the low grasses and bushes of the extreme
									summit, and on Mt. Washington in the sedgy area called the 'cow pasture.' It is
									rather shy, taking readily to wing and flying straight for two or three rods, then
									dropping rather suddenly into the grass." Somes (1914) calls it "an
									especially attractive insect, its trim, neat lines and pleasing coloration serving
									to distinguish it from its congeners. All of our captures of it in Minnesota were
									accidental in sweeping and in every case it has been taken from Carices."
								Near Pequaming, Mich., Hebard found it abundant in a clearing of several acres in
									the woods, Aug. 1--21, and says: 
										"The grass growing over the lower portion of this clearing was very thick and
											high and on approaching it on the morning of Aug. 1, a new sound met my ears,
											a loud, harsh, connected stridulation, repeated at intervals of a few seconds.
											Following up these sounds I was at length able to procure several specimens of
											this beautiful insect. They had all very recently emerged and were easy to
											capture with the net as they flew up, but when on alighting they hid in the
											grass, they were almost impossible to find, as they blended exactly with their
											surroundings. The females did not appear till a week later and, at the best
											time of the season, a morning's search would never reveal more than two or
											three of them; they were very lubberly and could hardly jump. The life color
											of the male was a rich grass-green, beautifully shaded and contrasting
											strongly with the carmine of the inner surfaces of the hind femora; while that
											of the female was yellowish-brown, the red inner surfaces of hind femora much
											paler than in the male."
									
								Of the stridulating organs of M. gracilis
									Piers (1896, 215) says: "The stridulating area of the wing of this
									species is large and prominent and stridulation may be easily produced in the dead
									insect by moving the hind femora against the wings." Scudder (1893,
										76) describes the note, stating that it is louder than that produced by
									any other Tryxalid and can be heard at a distance of 50 feet. "It usually makes
									four notes but the number is sometimes  greater. The
									first, a quarter of a second in length, is duller than the others and is followed
									by a pause of a quarter of a second. The other notes are of the same length but
									sharply sounded, and follow each other rapidly."

								
									105. MECOSTETHUS PLATYPTERUS
										(Scudder), 1862, 463. Broad-winged Sedge-Locust.

									More slender and compressed than either lineatus or gracilis. Dark reddish-brown, the yellow marking of head and
										pronotum almost obsolete; male with supra-anal plate, styles and a median stripe
										on ninth abdominal segment black; color otherwise as in gracilis. Vertex obtusely triangular, its median carina high; foveolæ
										very faint; antennæ of male longer, darker and more slender than in gracilis. Disk of pronotum of almost equal width throughout, the
										metazona only rugose. Tegmina of male longer and narrower than in gracilis, surpassing tips of hind femora 1--3 mm., the rasp of
										intercalary vein much as in gracilis. Length of body, ♂,
										23--26, ♀, 35--40; of antennæ, ♂, 11--12.5, ♀, 10--11; of tegmina, ♂, 19--21, ♀,
										24--25; of hind femora, ♂, 15--16.5, ♀, 17.5--20.5 mm. (Fig. 89.)
								

								Thompson, Conn., Aug. 25 (Morse). A scarce species known in New
									England only from Massachusetts and Connecticut and recorded elsewhere only from
									Illinois, Iowa and Minnesota. As in the other species the females seem to be much
									the less abundant, but this is probably due to their sluggish habit of tumbling
									down and hiding when approached rather than taking to flight like the more active
									males. At Thompson, Conn., Morse (1896, 445) "found it in company
									with lineatus and impossible to distinguish from that species when flying, though
									its flight is less sustained and it is decidedly more difficult to flush."

								
									Fig. 89. Male. X 1.8. (After Somes.)
								

								In Illinois Hart (1907, 231) has recorded it only from low ground on
									a glacial flood plain at Teheran, June 22, and from dense grass in wet ground at
									Champaign, July 31. The Iowa record (Ball, 1897) is based on a single
									specimen from a meadow at Little Rock. In Minnesota Somes (1914, 28)
									reports it as occurring at Mesaba and Allen Junction, July 25, in the dense
									tangles of tamarack swamps, the immature stages being not at all rare, but only a
									few adults found.
							
						


						

						
							Subfamily II. OEDIPODINÆ. THE BAND-WINGED LOCUSTS.

							This subfamily includes those genera of locusts having the prosternum unarmed with
								tubercle or spine; face nearly vertical instead of oblique, head rounded at point of
								union with vertex and face; fastigium or front of vertex sloping sharply downward;
								foveolæ present but usually small and shallow; antennæ filiform or sublinear and
								usually inserted above the middle of eyes, sometimes almost above the eyes
								themselves; eyes shorter than in the Tryxalinæ, being rarely longer than that
								portion of the cheeks below their orbits; dorsal field of pronotum with hind margin
								much wider than front one, its surface generally wrinkled or covered with small
								tubercles; lateral carinæ faint, often wanting; median carina (except in Arphia) cut by one or two sulci, often raised in a sharp ridge or
								crest; tegmina and wings always fully developed, the latter, in most species,
								brightly colored. All of our genera belong to the division Oedipodini40 of Saussure, in which the
								ocelli are placed near the eyes and in which the outer margin of hind tibiæ lacks an
								apical spine next the spurs.
							The members of this subfamily are, when at rest with the tegmina closed, usually
								dull brown or grayish in color, and they dwell, for the most part, on bare clayey or
								rocky slopes, stretches of sand, along roadsides and railways, or in closely cropped
								meadows. There the hues of the tegmina usually harmonize in a marvelous manner with
								the background of the environment. Earth tints, rock and sand textures, the
								infinitely varied browns, greens and grays of living and dead vegetation, are often
								represented in spots and streaks on the tegmina of the locust, the effect being to
								merge the insect so intimately with its background that as long as motionless it is
								effectively hidden from the observation of its foes.
							The great majority of our species of Oedipodinæ have the inner wings in part black,
								the greater portion being yellow or red. When in flight they are therefore very
								conspicuous objects, being often mistaken for butterflies by persons who have given
								little attention to nature. The purpose of this bright coloration has been discussed
								by many naturalists and several theories have been set forth, explaining why it is
								of advantage to the locusts. Morse (1897, 7) claims that the bright
								colors of the wings are "in no sense protective and bear no relation to the
								environment of the insect, but are probably of value in the mating of the sexes."
									40Based upon the old
									world Oedipoda
									Serville (1831, 287) meaning "swollen" + "foot."
								 Later (1907, 9) he adds: "The flight of one of these
								locusts attracts attention by its crepitating character; the conspicuous
								wing-colors, red or yellow and black, in strong contrast, render its flight easy to
								follow, and it is very frequently followed by, others of its kind, which drop to the
								ground in close proximity to it. There can be no doubt in the mind of one who has
								watched these. actions repeated over and over, of the value of these colors as a
								means of signalling, of attracting attention, and thereby effecting or maintaining
								communication between the sexes or the individuals of a community."
							Vosseler (1902, 16) has suggested that the bright hues of the inner
								wings constitute a "contrast mimicry," enabling the owner to dazzle or confuse any
								pursuer by suddenly closing them and dropping quickly to the ground, where the dull
								colored tegmina blend so closely with the surroundings that the enemy searches in
								vain for the brilliant object it was endeavoring to capture a moment before. As
								mentioned by both Hart and Somes, the Catocalæ among moths present a similar case of
								bicolored protective coloration, having the outer wings dull gray or brown
								corresponding to the hue of the tree bole on which they habitually rest, while the
								inner ones are as brightly colored as that of any butterfly. "When the moth alights,
								the gray outer wings instantly fold over the bright inner ones, thus causing the
								insect to 'fade away' in a bewildering manner."
							Since the flight of the Oedipodinæ is almost always accompanied by a stridulation
								or crepitation, I believe that the theory of Morse is much the more plausible, and
								that the bright colors are for the keeping in touch one with another of the members
								of a locust colony rather than to be used as a sort of camouflage to dazzle their
								pursuers. Since the bright colored wings are possessed by both sexes, they cannot be
								accounted for by the theory of natural sexual selection, as might be the case were
								they present in the males alone.
							The ground color of the inner wings and the hind tibiæ often varies much in the
								same species, shading from dull white through yellow and orange to vermilion red,
								and, in the case of the tibiæ, sometimes to blue. The greater intensity of color is
								in part due to age, and perhaps in part to the higher temperature of the locality
								where found, though other factors doubtless enter into its cause. Bruner
									(1893c) and Hart (1907, 214) have cited evidence to show that
								a red coloration of wings and tibiæ seems to be associated with that of a humid
								environment, while individuals or  species with inner
								wings yellow or hind tibiæ blue usually occur in an arid or sandy region.
							The members of the subfamily Oedipodinæ are peculiar in that the males of most of
								them and the females of a few stridulate while on the wing, producing a rather
								harsh, crackling or rattling note by rubbing the under surface of the tegmina
								against certain veins on the upper surface of the inner wings. The sound seems to be
								under control of the insect, for they often make it when suddenly alarmed, or cease
								making it if too greatly frightened. Some of them produce a uniform rattling note
								during the entire period of flight, which is generally in a straight course. Others
								make the call only during certain intervals of flight. These change the direction of
								flight at will, and at every turn emit two or three short, rattling sounds. A number
								of species also sound a different call when at rest, in the same manner as do the
								Tryxalinæ, by rubbing the hind femora against the intercalary vein of the tegmina,
								which is toothed or roughened to aid as a sounding organ.
							In general the Oedipodinæ, especially those with colored wings, are very shy,
								alert, and difficult to capture. Owing to their wariness they can usually be taken
								only by first flushing them and then marking down the exact spot on which they
								alight. Then by approaching carefully one can either throw the net suddenly flat
								down over them, or, holding it in readiness, can swoop them quickly as they arise.
								Those with unicolored or faintly clouded inner wings, as the species of Camnnula, Chortophaga, etc., are less wary, usually more abundant in
								individuals and frequent more open places, so that they are less difficult to
								capture. In the latitude of Indiana three or four species of Oedipodinæ pass the
								winter as nymphs or half-grown young. These nymphs reach maturity about mid-April
								and are the first Acridians of large size to be seen in the spring. The majority of
								our species, however, pass the winter, as do most other locusts, in the egg
								stage.
							Aside from the general works on Orthoptera the literature which will be of especial
								interest to the student of the Oedipodinæ of the eastern States is as follows:
									Scudder, 1875a, 1875c, 1876, 1890, 1892, 1900c; Saussure, 1884,
									1888; Morse, 1894b, 1895a, 1897; McNeill, 1900,
									1901; Blatchley, 1903; R. & H., 1916.
							The subfamily is represented in our territory by 12 genera, 25 species and three
								races or varieties. All the genera are indigenous, and their species are confined to
								North and Central America. For convenience of treatment the genera are grouped into
								two tribes as follows:


							


							
								KEY TO TRIBES OF EASTERN GENERA OF ŒDIPODINÆ.

								a. Median carina of pronotum either entire or cut by only one transverse
										sulcus.41 (Fig. 90, a, c.) Tribe I. HIPPISCI, p.
										246.
								aa. Median carina of pronotum cut by two sulci, the front notch often much
									less distinct than the hind one (Fig. 106, c.) Tribe II. TRIMEROTROPI, p. 286.
							

							
								Fig. 90. Side and dorsal views of the pronotum of Arphia and
										Spharagemon. a, of Arphia sulphurea; b, of A. xanthoptera; c and d,
									of Spharagemon bolli; e and f, of S. zwyomingianum;
										g and h, of S. saxatile. (After Morse
									and Walden.)
							

							
								Tribe I. HIPPISCI.

								This tribe comprises our largest, most widely distributed and best known
									Oedipods, and some of them are among the largest of our eastern locusts. Our eight
									genera representing the tribe may be separated by the following table in which I
									have made use of many characters not of generic importance, in order that the
									beginner may the more readily determine the specimens in hand.

								
									KEY TO EASTERN GENERA OF TRIBE HIPPISCI.42

									a. Median carina of pronotum raised in a distinct crest which is usually
										entire, rarely very feebly cut by the principal sulcus (Fig. 90, a,
											b); tegmina subcoriaceous or leathery in texture, densely and irregularly
										reticulate; inner wings brightly colored, red or yellow at base. I. ARPHIA, p. 248.
									aa. Median carina of pronotum less prominent, always distinctly cut by
										one sulcus (Fig. 90, c, e); tegmina with apical half
										membranous and regularly reticulate.
								

								41Very rarely a
									specimen of Scirtetica, one of the genera of Hippisci, has the median carina of prozona feebly cut by the front
									transverse sulcus, thus causing an evident second notch. More rarely the front
									notch in Psinidia, a genus of Trimerotropi, is
									subobsolete or very faint.

								42I have not followed
									R. & H. in separating Pardalophora Saussure from Hippiscus as the principal distinguishing character he gives
									(1884, 83) for the latter, viz., the dividing of the disk of the vertex by
									transverse and longitudinal carinæ into four areolæ, is an individual and not even
									a specific, let alone a generic character. In at least half of the specimens of
									both H. phœnicopterus and H. haldemanni at
									hand these carinæ are as plainly visible as in H. rugosus, while
									in the others they are wholly wanting.


								

								
									b. Basal portion of inner wings pellucid or transparent, sometimes
										faintly yellow, not distinctly bounded by a blackish border but with the outer
										half tinged with fuscous.
									c. Pronotum with its disk tectiform, the sides sloping downward, its
										dorsal front margin acute-angulate; hind femora, without dark cross bars on
										lower outer face.II. CHORTOPHAGA, p.
											254.
									cc. Pronotum with its disk flat or nearly so, its dorsal front margin
										obtuse-angulate or truncate; hind femora with dusky cross-bars on their outer
										face.
									d. Disk of pronotum rugose, its median carina distinct, higher on
										prozona than on metazona, distinctly cut by the principal sulcus; frontal costa
										of male strongly sulcate throughout their full length. III.
												ENCOPTOLOPHUS, p. 258.
									dd. Disk of pronotum not rugose, its median carina low, of equal height
										throughout, faintly cut by the principal sulcus; frontal costa of male sulcate
										only below the ocellus. IV. CAMNULA, p.
											260.
									bb. Basal portion of inner wings red, orange, black or yellow in color,
										when not black, distinctly bounded outwardly with a blackish border (Fig. 106,
											a.)
									e. Body, especially that of female, robust; pronotum with its disk
										rugose or with numerous tubercles, the lateral lobes with principal sulcus faint
										or obsolete; base of inner wings red or yellow; sides of tegmina usually with a
										number of large rounded or subquadrate dark spots.V. HIPPISCUS, p. 262.
									ee. Body more slender, often compressed; pronotum with disk almost
										smooth, the lateral lobes with principal sulcus distinctly developed; base of
										inner wings black or pale yellow; tegmina with numerous small dark spots which
										are sometimes united into cross bars.
									f. Inner wings black with a yellow border; intercalary vein of tegmina
										very distinct, arcuate, remote from the median vein. VI. DISSOSTEIRA, p. 271.
									ff. Inner wings yellow, apically hyaline, and with a black or fuscous
										curved median band; intercalary vein of tegmina less distinct, hardly arcuate,
										nearer the median than the ulnar vein.
									g. Median carina of pronotum crested, deeply notched by the principal
										sulcus, arched on the metazona as viewed in profile (Fig. 96, c); tegmina rather broad, the intercalary vein sinuous. VII. SPHRAGEMON, p. 275.
									gg. Median carina low, nearly straight throughout, but feebly notched
										(Fig. 96, d); tegmina very narrow, the intercalary vein
										straight, subobsolete. VIII. SCIRTETICA, p.
											283.
								
							

							
								I. ARPHIA
									Stål, 1873, 113, 119.
								Rather large, robust species, having the body more or less compressed; vertex
									horizontal, either subpentagonal or triangular, its disk with a distinct, usually
									deep concavity, this often divided by a transverse curved impression slightly
									behind the middle; median  carina usually present,
									sometimes obsolete in front of the impression; foveolæ present, rather large,
									shallow, rhomboidal or triangular; antennæ about as long as head and pronotum
									together; pronotum with its front margin usually bluntly angulate and produced
									forward upon the posterior third of occiput, median carina compressed, higher than
									usual, not or very feebly cut by the principal transverse sulcus; lateral carinæ
									rounded, distinct only on metazona; lateral lobes deeper than long, their front
									margin slightly sinuate, hind one more or less oblique, lower one with front half
									obliquely ascending, its posterior angle rather broadly rounded; tegmina somewhat
									leathery in texture, densely and irregularly reticulate, the apical third only
									with distinct cells or spaces between the venules; intercalary vein closer to
									median than to ulnar vein; wings brightly colored, yellow or red at base; hind
									femora stout, their basal halves depressed and dilated; valves of ovipositor
									moderately exserted, the upper ones with their apical halves slightly inturned and
									narrowly spoon-shaped.
								Kirby (1910, 194) accredits 34 species to the genus, 24 of them
									being from the United States, the others from Mexico and Central America. A number
									of his names are synonyms, it being doubtful if over a dozen valid species occur
									in the United States. Of these only four are known from our territory.

								
									KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF ARPHIA.

									a. Frontal costa with sides subparallel, scarcely narrowed above the
										antennæ, feebly or not at all sulcate.
									b. Median carina of pronotum cristate, not cut by the principal sulcus,
										viewed in profile distinctly arched; front margin of disk of pronotum
										obtusely-angled, hind one acute-angled (Fig. 90, b.) 106. XANTHOPTERA.
									bb. Median carina of pronotum but little elevated, almost straight, cut
										near the middle but not notched; front margin of disk obtusely or scarcely at
										all angulate.
									c. Metazona thickly granulated, its hind margin acute-angled; concavity
										of vertex with median carina faint or wanting; frontal costa without trace of
										median carina on upper third; basal portion of wings yellow. 107. GRANULATA.
									cc. Metazona with only a few small scattered granules, its hind margin
										obtuse-angled; concavity of vertex very deep, its median carina distinct,
										interrupted by the cross impression; frontal costa with a more or less distinct
										median carina on upper third; base of wings deep red, rarely yellow. 108. PSEUDONIETANA.
									aa. Frontal costa with sides converging above the antennæ, almost
										meeting at point of union with the vertex, distinctly sulcate below the ocellus;
										median carina of pronotum low, nearly straight, entire (Fig. 90, a); foveolæ broader than long. 109. SULPHUREA.
								


								

								
									106. ARPHIA XANTHOPTERA
										(Burmeister), 1838, II, 643. Autumn Yellow-winged Locust.

									Robust, moderately compressed, the males but little the smaller. Color
										varying from very dark to pale reddish-brown, head and pronotum usually lighter
										than tegmina, the latter in female often sprinkled with numerous darker brown
										spots; inner wings with basal two-thirds either deep yellow or orange-red, the
										outer third with a curved fuscous bar from which a dark ray near costal margin
										extends backwards one-third the distance to base of wing; hind femora dull
										grayish-brown, the upper outer face with two or three oblique blackish bars,
										knees fuscous, preceded by a pale ring; hind tibiæ dusky with a pale ring near
										base; ventral surface dark brown to almost black. Differs from sulphurea, with which it is commonly associated in the eastern states,
										by its larger size and by having the concavity of disk of vertex wider,
										subtruncate in front, its sides not meeting but continuous with those of frontal
										costa, the latter with sides not converging to apex; foveolæ smaller,
										subtriangular; median carina of pronotum higher, more distinctly arched and hind
										margin of pronotum more acute. Length of body, ♂, 21--27, ♀, 28--34; of antennæ,
										♂, 10--11, ♀, 9--11.5; of tegmina, ♂, 23--28, ♀, 25--30; of hind femora, ♂,
										15--18, ♀, 17--19 mm. (Fig. 91 and title page.)
								

								This is a common locust throughout Indiana, beginning to reach maturity in the
									central part of the State, from eggs hatched in the spring, about July 20, and
									existing until November 1, or later. It frequents the stubble of wheat, clover and
									timothy fields, the banks along railways and the borders of high, dry, open
									woodlands and roadsides. One-third or more of the males have the inner wings a
									deep orange yellow, but not more than one-sixth of the females have them so
									colored. The orange-winged males are usually darker in color, sometimes almost
									black, and the clacking sound made in stridulation is seemingly louder and more
									prolonged than in the yellow-winged forms. This sound is made as the insect rises
									from the ground, and at times at the points of turning in its zigzag flight. It is
									a stronger and more active flier than sulphurea and its note is
									louder and readily distinguished from that of the latter.
								
									Fig. 91. Male, natural size. (After Beutenmuller.)
								
								In Florida A. xanthoptera has been taken from numerous stations
									in the northern third of the State, where it occurs in pine woods undergrowth, but
									it is not known south of Orange City Junction. The range of xanthoptera extends from southern New England, where it is common, west to
									Minnesota and western  Nebraska, and south and
									southwest to central Florida, Oklahoma and northern Texas. It is not recorded from
									Canada, nor from Michigan, but it doubtless occurs in the latter State.
								In Illinois Hart reports the proportion of orange-winged individuals to be much
									greater than that noted above for Indiana specimens, but states (1907, 258) that
									in a sand region in southern Wisconsin, where hundreds were seen every day, but a
									single orange-winged specimen was observed during five weeks' collecting. He
									therefore concludes that the yellow-winged form is that of the more arid
									environment. On the contrary, in New England, only the yellow-winged form is
									known, and Fox (1914, 496) states that he has never seen in the field
									a red or orange-winged specimen in Pennsylvania or New Jersey, and adds: "The
									usual explanation that the red-winged phase is due to greater humidity is
									difficult to harmonize with the almost exclusive prevalence of the yellow-winged
									type in our region, which is much more humid than the States west of the
									Appalachians." Of its habits in Virginia he says (1917) : "In a general way xanthoptera shows greater latitude in its choice of habitats than
										sulphurea. Both are dryland forms and flourish only in
									untilled areas, but xanthoptera does not show any marked
									preferences for woodland associations; occurring as frequently in campestral
									stations as in sylvan. In open country it usually occurs in old waste fields and
									pastures over-run with coarse grasses and weeds, and the grassy tangles bordering
									cultivated fields; in woodland surroundings it frequents the low, briery scrub and
									coarse herbage of clearings and borders."
								The Oedipoda carinata
									Scudder (1869, 306) I regard as only a form of A.
										xanthoptera, with a slightly higher and more arcuate crest of pronotum,
									more finely granulate prozona and more slender hind femora. It has been recorded
									from Illinois by Thomas (1880) and McNeill (1891) and
									from Minnesota by Somes. Specimens from Kansas distributed as carinata by Snow are undoubtedly the same as Indiana xanthoptera.

								
									107. ARPHIA GRANULATA
										Saussure, 1884, 67. Southern Yellow-winged Locust.

									Size and form of A. sulphurea. Color of that species, the
										tegmina of males, as there but less often, with a dull clay-yellow stripe along
										part or all of the overlapping dorsal field, and those of females often, of
										males rarely, thickly sprinkled with paler spots; wings with dark ray near
										costal margin extending two-thirds to base as in sulphurea;
										hind tibiæ usually pale with a fuscous ring at basal third and another near
										apex. Vertex and frontal costa much as in xanthoptera, the
										concavity of the former deeper; foveolæ suboval or subtriangular. Median carina
										of pronotum low, faintly cut but not notched at middle, the entire disk and
										often the lateral lobes and occiput thickly covered with small tubercles or
										granules.  Length of body, ♂, 19--21, ♀, 27--30;
										of tegmina, ♂, 20--22, ♀, 25--27; of hind femora, ♂, 12--13, ♀, 15--16
										mm.
								

								This modest brown yellow-winged locust has been taken by the writer in Florida at
									all points where collections have been made. At Ormond it was found mating on
									March 11, and at Dunedin both adults and nymphs occur in small numbers throughout
									the winter. It is found principally in old fields, open pine woods and along
									roadsides and railways. Its flight is usually short, and stridulation while on the
									wing much more feeble than that of xanthoptera or even sulphurea. It has been recorded by other collectors from numerous
									stations in Florida as far south as Key West, and is the prevailing form of Arphia throughout the State, its congeners, xanthoptera and sulphurea, being confined to the
									northern third. Outside of Florida, granulata is said by
										R. & H. (1916, 176) to be "known from Wilmington, N. Car., and
									Waynesville, Ga., westward as far as Thomasville, Ga.," while Davis has received
									it from Caesar, Miss. Scudder (1900) accredits it by mistake to
									Nebraska, probably on a doubtful determination by Bruner (1897,
									130).

								
									108. ARPHIA PSEUDONIETANA
										(Thomas), 1870, 82. Northwestern Red-winged Locust.

									Size and form of sulphurea but somewhat more slender.
										Color extremely variable, usually darker than sulphurea, the
										male sometimes nearly black, often with a dorsal sutural clay-yellow stripe on
										tegmina. both sexes, but especially the females, often grayish-brown with
										numerous fuscous spots and blotches, giving them a decidedly mottled appearance.
										Prozona sometimes with a pale cross-bar, appearing like a collar; basal portion
										of wings blight orange-red, very rarely deep yellow; hind femora d tibiæ as in
											sulphurea. Vertex with concavity elongate-oval, wider in
										female; apex truncate, closed in front, sides continuous with those of frontal
										costa; foveolæ large, shallow, rhomboidal. Frontal costa with sides of upper
										third feebly converging, its median carina usually forking just above the
										ocellus. Pronotum with front margin subtruncate or obtusely rounded, median
										carina low, slightly higher on prozona, cut but only faintly notched in front of
										middle; metazona nearly flat, often with a large shallow basal impression each
										side. Length of body, ♂, 22--24, ♀, 28--33; of tegmina, ♂, 22--24, ♀, 25--27; of
										hind femora, ♂, 13--14, ♀, 15--16 mm.
								

								South Haven and South Frankfort, Mich.; Sidney and Valentine, Neb.; Golden,
									Colo.; Pine Bluff, Wyo.; Brandon, Man., and Victoria, B. C. Scudder gives its
									range as "U. S. and Canada west of Mississippi River," but it is known from
									Nipigon and Sudbury, Ontario, and has been taken at a half dozen or more points in
									Michigan, being the only Arphia recorded from that State. It is
									also said by Thomas (1880, 109) to occur occasionally  in extreme northwestern Illinois. Under the name of
										A. tenebrosa Scudd., a synonym, it has been recorded by
										Saussure (1888, 165) from as far west as Vancouver and California,
									and southwest from Kansas and New Mexico. His California record may have been a
									mistake, as specimens at hand from both California and Arizona received under the
									name A. tenebrosa are undoubtedly distinct. In Colorado, Montana
									and Utah it appears to be common, Gillette (1904) stating that in
									Colorado it occurs to the New Mexico line.
								Of the habits and stridulations of pseudonietana in Minnesota
										Somes (1914, 36) has written: "For the most part it is found in
									open places on dry soil, being often very abundant on gravel hills. It has a
									flight which is strong, but not so vigorous as that of carinate
									or xanthoptera, and its ærial stridulation is less noticeable
									than in these. It is a very beautiful insect and in flight appears almost like
									some brilliant butterfly. On a clear, hot day in June we once noted two males of
									this species standing facing one another about two inches apart. First one would
									raise the hind femora and rub them briskly against the sides of the tegmina a
									number of times, producing a dull, rasping sound which to our ears was certainly
									poor music; then he would drop to a position of attention and his vis-a-vis would
									go through the same performance. This was continued for some time and we at length
									left the two isolated 'fiddlers' on their hillside. Was this in some way a
									competition or merely for the pleasure of the music?"
								Of its stridulation as observed at Sand Point, Mich., Shull (1911)
									says: "The flight of this species is often accompanied by a rapid clacking of the
									wings. When this occurs the flight is irregular and butterfly-like. Without
									clacking flight is direct and well controlled. A flight of 13 yards without sound
									occupied 3.2 seconds, while one of 12 yards with stridulation required 4.8
									seconds. All the individuals observed alighted on sand."
								As already mentioned, the Oedipoda tenebrosa
									Scudder (1872, 251) is a synonym, as are also Arphia
										sanguinaria
									Stl (1873,119), Tomonotus tenebrosus
									Thos. (1873, 107) and T. nietanus
									Thos. (1880, 108).

								
									109. ARPHIA SULPHUREA
										(Fabricius), 1781, 369. Sulphur-winged Locust.

									Smaller than A. xanthoptera, the male especially more
										slender. Color varying from dark brown, almost blackish in some males, to pale
										brown; tegmina of males often with a pale yellowish band along the dorsal or
										hind margin; those of the lighter colored females often thickly sprinkled with
										small fuscous spots; wings with basal two-thirds bright sulphur-yellow; outer
										third with a dusky curved band, from which a distinct dark  ray runs nearly to base of wing, near the front or costal margin;
										hind femora with outer face either uniform dark brown with a pale ring near
										knee, or with alternating bands of black and white, which are more plainly
										visible on inner face; hind tibiæ dusky black or blue-black, with a pale ring
										near base; abdomen reddish-brown or yellowish. Vertex with front half of the
										deep concavity strongly ascending, median carina distinct but low, sides forming
										an acute angle at apex. Pronotum with front margin rounded or obtuse-angled,
										median carina entire, feebly arched, basal margin right-angled, disk more or
										less rugose (Fig. 90, a.) Length of body, ♂, 17--22, ♀,
										26--30; of antennæ, ♂ and ♀, 6--7.5; of tegmina, ♂, 18.5--23, ♀, 21--26; of hind
										femora, ♂, 11--14.5, ♀, 14--17 mm. (Fig. 92.)
								

								The sulphur-winged locust is a common insect throughout Indiana, making its home
									in dry upland pastures and meadows. along roadsides and on gravelly and rocky
									slopes. It passes the winter in the nymph stage, sheltered beneath logs, chunks
									and rubbish, and begins to reach maturity in central Indiana about May 1st, being
									preceded only by Chortophaga viridifasciata. It is most abundant
									in June, and about July 15th begins to be replaced by its congener, A. xanthoptera. However, examples have been taken in Marion County as late
									as September 10th. The male, when disturbed, moves in short, jerky flights,
									sounding its cymbals while in the air at every turn. The sound is a sharp,
									crackling note, and is seemingly under the control of the insect. Many of the
									young and a few of the adults which appear in spring, or those which live on high,
									rocky woodland slopes where lichens are abundant, often have the pronotum and hind
									femora prettily marked or spotted with grayish and greenish in imitation of those
									lowly plants.
								The range of A. sulphurea extends from New England and Ontario
									west to Minnesota and eastern Nebraska, and south and southwest to northern
									Florida, Oklahoma and Texas. The only definite record from Florida is from Leon
									Co., near the northern border, where Hebard found it in small numbers in pine
									woods, containing many scrubs oaks, the young being plentiful throughout the
									winter months among dead leaves under the oak and hickory trees.
								
									Fig. 92. Male. X 2. (After Somes.)
								
								In Ontario sulphurea has been definitely recorded only from  Toronto and Sarnia, though Caulfield
										(1888) states that it "occurs generally" throughout that province. Scudder (1900) gives its range as "U. S. and Canada east of Rocky
									Mts.," but it has not been recorded from Canada west of Ontario, it being
									apparently replaced in the western provinces by A. pseudonietana
									(Thos.) and A. frigida Scudd. In this country the main
									distribution, like that of xanthoptera, appears to be east of
									the Mississippi, as wherever found west of that stream it appears to be scarce, it
									having been so recorded in the Iowa, Minnesota and Nebraska lists.
								Throughout its range the sulphur-winged locust appears to winter in the nymph
									stage and to become mature and largely disappear before xanthoptera, hatched from the eggs in spring, becomes abundant. It is said
									by Morse (1897, 51) to occur throughout New England, "being found
									nearly everywhere in dry pastures in spring and early summer, its rattling
									stridulation being one of the constant features of a ramble in such places at that
									season. Its flight, particularly that of the male, is less extended than that of
										xanthoptera, being often limited to a few feet, but sometimes
									continued for three or four rods. Its course is often circling with an abrupt
									curve and a sudden drop into the grass and bushes at the end."
							

							
								II. CHORTOPHAGA
									Saussure, 1884, 43, 72. (Gr., "herb" + "to eat.")

								Medium sized locusts, having the body rather slim, compressed, punctate or finely
									wrinkled; vertex horizontal, triangular, its apex truncate, sides not prominent,
									median carina wanting; foveolæ very shallow, elongate, triangular; frontal costa
									prominent, rather narrow, punctate, sulcate below the ocellus, the margins of
									upper fourth slightly converging to meet those of vertex; antennæ no longer than
									head and pronotum together, the joints short, somewhat flattened; pronotum with
									disk roof-shaped, its front margin bluntly angulate, projected slightly forward on
									the occiput, hind margin acute-angled; median carina not prominent, straight and
									but faintly notched slightly before the middle by the principal sulcus; lateral
									carinæ visible only on the metazona, rounded and indistinct, female, plainly
									visible, male; lateral lobes of pronotum as in Arphia, the lower
									posterior angle less rounded; tegmina narrow, surpassing the abdomen, apical half
									membranous, the intercalary vein running midway between median and ulnar veins;
									wings pellucid, outwardly tinged with fuscous, basally faintly so with yellowish,
									the veins but slightly swollen; hind femora of medium size, surpassing the
									abdomen, male, slightly shorter, female; ovipositor as in Arphia.



								

								Harris (1841, 146) founded the genus Tragocephala
									to include the then known species of this genus, but that name was found to be
									preoccupied by Dupont in Coleoptera. In the dimorphic coloration, form of head and
									habitats of its species, Chortophaga forms a sort of connecting
									link between the Oedipodinæ and the Tryxalinæ, it being formerly classed with the
									latter. It is the only genus of Oedipodinæ whose members are notably dichromatic.
										Kirby (1910, 198) accredits four nominal species to the genus, two
									from the United States, one from Cuba and one from Costa Rica. A fifth has been
									since described. Two of these forms inhabit our territory, one of them being
									herein regarded as only a variety of the other.

								
									KEY TO EASTERN FORMS OF CHORTOPHAGA.

									a. Disk of vertex distinctly longer than broad, male, its greatest width
										subequal to its length, female; hind femora not barred on upper outer face. 110. VIRIDIFASCIATA.
									aa. Disk of vertex almost as broad as long, male, slightly broader than
										long, female; upper outer face of hind femora usually blotched with fuscous. 110a. AUSTRALIOR.
								

								
									110. CHORTOPHAGA VIRIDIFASCIATA
										(DeGeer), 1773, 498. Northern Green-striped Locust.

									Color dimorphic, either largely green with a small amount of brown upon the
										tegmina (viridifasciata) or wholly brown (infuscata
										Harris, 1841, 147). Specimens are common, however, which can be
										referred to either form the color being a mixture. The more pronounced green
										examples, with head, pronotum, outer face of hind femora and basal two-thirds of
										median field of tegmina grass-green, upper dorsal field, and apical third of
										tegmina, as well as a narrow stripe along their lower or costal margin,
										ash-brown, abdomen reddish-brown; head, pronotum and hind femora rarely
										reddish-purple instead of green. Brown form with apical halves of tegmina
										darker, their sides often containing a few light spots. Hind tibiæ brown or pale
										blue with a white ring near base. Color of wings and structural characters as
										given under generic, heading. Length of body, ♂, 17--24, ♀, 22--32; of antennæ,
										♂, 7--8, ♀, 6--7; of tegmina, ♂, 17--21, ♀, 18--25; of hind femora, ♂, 11--13,
										♀, 13--15 mm. (Fig. 93.)
								
								
									Fig. 93. Nymph and adult female. (After Riley.)
								

								In Indiana this is the first locust to reach maturity in spring from hibernating
									nymphs, specimens having been taken in Vigo County as early as April 15th. It is a
									common species throughout the State, making its home in blue-grass pastures, and
									especially in the grassy tracts along rail fences between upland woods  and cultivated fields and meadows. It also occurs on
									sunny sloping hillsides and railway embankments. In fact, mature individuals may
									occur anywhere in dry grassy places from mid-April till November 1st. In such
									localities the young, in company with those of Arphia sulphurea,
									may be seen on all sunny winter days when the mercury is above the freezing point.
									At such times they often climb or leap upon the lower rails of fences or sides of
									stumps, there resting in and apparently enjoying the sunshine. The species is said
									to be double brooded in some localities, but in Indiana, as far as known, it is
									single brooded, the young hatching in August and September and undergoing three or
									four moults before winter.
								In Minnesota Somes (1914, 40) says of it: "Excluding the Tettigidæ, C. viridifasciata may be considered our Orthopteron
									'harbinger of spring,' being normally the first locust to appear as adult. We have
									noted it in some numbers near Minneapolis as early as April 1, while in Iowa we
									have taken it a month earlier. It is apparently double-brooded, as we have found
									the young swarming in lowland meadows as early as June 26 and again in
									September."
								Of the egg-laying habits of viridifasciata
									Hancock (1911, 410) writes: "At Millers, Ind., June 5, I found a
									female laying her eggs in damp sand at the border of a pond. When I approached she
									had her abdomen buried quite deeply. After 15 minutes she moved away from the
									place. I carefully unearthed the burrow, finding it to be 27 mm. deep, and at the
									bottom, the eggs, 25 in number, were laid in a compact mass. They were bound
									together with a white mucous, and there was quite an amount of this substance
									lying above the eggs in the burrow."
								This green-striped or dusky locust is one of the most widely distributed of North
									American Oedipods, its known range including the New England states and southern
									Ontario and extending west to Moose Jaw, Sask., Minnesota and northern Colorado,
									and south and southwest to Georgia, Oklahoma and Texas. Morse (1907,
										34) calls it "one of the most ubiquitous locusts of the eastern half of
									the continent, inhabiting a great variety of environments, chiefly campestral and
									on soil containing a moderate amount of moisture. It is one of the few species
									which has apparently extended its range down the Mississippi River along the
									levees, being common on the higher ground near the river and on embankments along
									canals."
								In Indiana, as elsewhere throughout its range, green females and brown males are
									the predominating forms, not more than 20  per cent.
									of the females in Indiana being brown, and a much smaller proportion of the males
									being green. The male, when disturbed, usually flies but a few rods, moving in a
									circling or zigzag course, and producing a low but distinct shuffling or rattling
									noise during the whole of its flight. The female moves noiselessly and more
									directly to a greater distance, her flight being often abruptly ended by a
									headlong dive into weeds or other concealing vegetation.
								The more important known synonyms of C. viridifasciata, the
									names of which have many times been used in American literature when referring to
									that species, are Gryllus virginianus
									Fabr. (1775, 291), Locusta infuscata
									Harris (1841, 147), Tomonotus zinmmermanni
									Sauss. (1861, 320) and Locusta radiata
									Harris (1841, 148). Besides these it has been referred to casually
									under three or four other scientific names.

								
									110a. CHORTOPHAGA VIRIDIFASCIATA AUSTRALIOR
										Rehn & Hebard, 1911, 589, Southern Green-striped Locust.

									"Differs from C. viridifasciata in the less strongly
										keel-like median carina of the pronotum, in the less acute angle of the caudal
										margin of the pronotum, in the broader fastigium and in the markedly different
										color pattern, which is essentially that of C. cubensis."
										"Green phase.--Head, pronotum, pleura, caudal femora, a longitudinal bar on the
										medio-proximal portion of tegmina, a median and a costal premedian patch on the
										same, apple-green; remainder of tegmina and venter brownish. * * * * Dorsum of
										caudal femora marked with 3 patches of clove-brown, the median the largest and
										triangular in shape; ventral faces of caudal femora black with two whitish
										bands, one median, the other preapical; caudal tibiæ glaucous, the genicular
										extremity clove-brown with a broad yellowish-white annulus. Wings with the disk
										yellow. Brown phase.--Similar to the green one, except that the green of the
										latter is replaced with clay-color, ochraceous or ochraceous-buff much marked
										with clove-brown on the head, pronotum and pleura. Length of body, ♂, 18, ♀,
										24.5; of tegmina, ♂, 18, ♀, 21.5; of caudal femora, ♂, 12, ♀, 13.8 mm." (R. & H.)
								

								The above are the essential parts of the original description of this southern
									form. A careful comparison of many individuals of viridifasciata
									from Indiana and australior from Florida, shows that only one
									structural character between the two is apparently fixed, viz., that pertaining to
									the proportional greater width of the vertex in australior. The
									height of the median carina and the degree of angulation of hind margin of
									metazona show individual variations, which are as marked in specimens from the
									north as from the south. Scudder (1875c, 482) set forth in parallel
									columns the differences between New England, Texas and Florida specimens of viridifasciata, and the only structural difference of any note
									which he gives between the first and last is that pertaining  to the width of the fastigium of vertex. As to the color, viridifasciata is notable for its variation in that character; so much so,
									indeed, that it has more synonyms than any other North American locust, the
									majority of these being based on color alone. Specimens at hand from Dunedin,
									Fla., are wholly without trace of fuscous blotches on the dorsal face of hind
									femora, so that in the key this difference, thought to be constant, had to be
									modified by the word "usually." I therefore regard australior
									as, at the most, only a southern geographic race or variety of viridifasciata. R. & H. (loc. cit.) have stated that it
									is closer to cubensis Scudder than to viridifasciata, and as it cannot be any closer to the latter species than
									it is without becoming an absolute synonym it is very probable that time will show
									that all three forms, viridifasciata, cubensis and australior, named in the order of their description, are but variations of
									one widely distributed and exceedingly variable North American species which will
									retain DeGeer's name.
								In Florida C. v. australior has been taken by me at all points
									where collections have been made, and it is recorded from many different
									localities by other collectors, so that it doubtless occurs everywhere throughout
									the State. Like the northern form it frequents old fields, gardens and waste
									places along roadsides, railways and the borders of forests, but is rarely if ever
									found far within the woodlands. About Dunedin both adults and nymphs occur
									throughout the winter, the latter being, however, in various stages, by far the
									more common. As in the north, the brown males greatly outnumber the green ones,
									but the brown females are much more numerous proportionally than in the northern
									form. A number of individuals have been taken with the head, pronotum and hind
									femora of a handsome and striking reddish-purple hue, but this also happens
									occasionally in viridifasciata as noted by the writer (1903,
									259). The range of the form australior is given by R.
										& H. (1916, 179) as extending "from the Dry Tortugas, Fla., northward
									to Savannah, Ga., the most northwestern localities at which it has been found
									being Tifton, Albany and Spring Creek, Ga., and Fort Barrancas, Fla." It has
									several times been recorded from Florida under the names Chortophaga
										viridifasciata and Encoptolophus costatus.
							

							
								III. ENCOPTOLOPHUS
									Scudder, 1875c, 478. (Gr., "cut" + "crest.")

								Body a little shorter and stouter than in Chortophaga,
									compressed as there, the head more swollen; vertex broadly triangular, the apical
									half sloping feebly downward, disk with a deep concavity, its sides low; median
									carina present on basal half of  concavity; foveola
									distinct, elongate, triangular; frontal costa narrow, strongly sulcate throughout,
									male, only above ocellus, female, the sides converging on upper third to meet
									those of vertex; antennæ equalling head and pronotum together, female, a third
									longer, male, the joints of apical half moderately flattened; pronotum with front
									margin truncate, hind one forming a rather sharply marked right angle; median
									carina distinct, slightly higher on prozona, cut by the principal sulcus into two
									nearly equal halves, lateral carinæ plainly visible only on metazona, the latter
									with disk flat, feebly rugose; lateral lobes of pronotum deeper than long, their
									disks concave, much wrinkled, front and hind margins nearly vertical, lower one
									with its posterior half rounded, front one oblique, ascending; tegmina rather
									broad and short, their tips broadly rounded, slightly surpassing abdomen in both
									sexes; intercalary vein distinctly nearer the ulnar than the median vein; hind
									femora a little shorter than abdomen, female, slightly surpassing it, male; valves
									of ovipositor distinctly exserted.
								To Encoptolophus, as above defined, Kirby (1910,
										200) accredits 11 species, nine from the United States and two from
									Mexiico. But one of them inhabits our territory.

								
									111. ENCOPTOLOPHUS SORDIDUS
										(Burmeister), 1838, 643. Clouded Locust.

									Rather short, robust, the males distinctly the smaller. Color dull rusty,
										yellowish or smoky brown, varied with small mottlings of darker and lighter
										shades; pronotum in living specimens often with a distinct pinkish-buff x-shaped
										mark on its disk; antennæ pale brown at base, the apical half darker. Tegmina
										with two pale transverse bars on middle of sides, which contrast plainly with
										the larger dark patches between and on either side of them. Wings transparent,
										yellowish at base, outer half smoky brown, the apex darker, the veins next the
										costal margin distinctly swollen. Hind femora indistinctly banded with dull
										yellowish and dark brown; hind tibiæ fuscous-brown with a pale ring near base.
										Structural characters as given above. Length of body, ♂, 19--22, ♀, 24--32; of
										antennæ, ♂, 11--12, ♀, 8--9; of tegmina, ♂, 17--19, ♀, 21--25; of hind femora,
										♂, 11--13.5, ♀, 14--16 mm. (Fig. 94.)
								
								
									Fig. 94. Male. (After Lugger.)
								

								The clouded locust is common throughout Indiana, maturing in the central portion
									about August 1, from eggs hatched in spring, and existing till December 1,
									provided the autumn is a favorable one. It frequents only dry upland timothy and
									clover meadows, blue-grass pastures, roadsides, etc. When living in woodland
									pastures it frequents sunny spots, seldom alighting in the shade when flushed. The
									male stridulates  on the wing during short flights,
									seldom, if ever, in the more prolonged ones, which it makes when frightened. The
									note is a harsh droning or buzzing sound, somewhat resembling that of a
									bumble-bee, but louder. It is begun after the insect has risen three or four feet
									above the ground, and is continued until it begins to descend, being kept up
									continuously while it is flying horizontally. The females usually leap for the
									first two or three times they are disturbed, but if flushed a number of times they
									use the wings in endeavoring to escape.
								The general range of E. sordidus is northern, extending from
									New England and Ontario west to Minnesota and Nebraska, and south and southwest to
									North Carolina and, Tennessee, the single Florida record (Scudder 1875c, 479) having been based on a wrong identification.
										Morse (1897, 66) states that it is very common throughout New
									England, especially "in late summer and fall, at which season the dull rattling of
									the countless numbers which rise before the stroller on a sunny day is almost
									continual. "It is recorded by Walker (1902a, 255) from a number of
									points in southern Ontario, but west of that province is. replaced by E. parvus Scudd. It is known from Wayne and _Washtenaw Counties, Mich.
										(Hubbell), and is said to be common in Iowa, throughout
									southern and western Minnesota, and over most of eastern Nebraska. In Virginia Fox
									reports it as "one of the most abundant grasshoppers in the dry pastures of the
									high intermontahe valleys."
								Morse (1896a, 19) describes the courtship of two males kept in
									captivity with a female as follows: 
										"Aroused by her near presence they crawled rapidly about and as they
											approached her would stop, stridulate for a second with their hind thighs, and
											excitedly leap toward or upon her, when being repulsed they would repeat the
											operation. The sound produced was a very high pitched 'i-chi-
												i-chi-i-chi-i-chi.' Another sound of an entirely different character
											was made in a different manner. The hind thighs, instead of being closely
											applied to the wing covers, were spread somewhat apart and violently vibrated,
											moving, as nearly as could be judged, up and down with extreme rapidity and
											striking as they did so upon the bottom of the box. The sound produced was a
											peculiar 'r-r-r-rd' or 'r-r-r-rt' low in
											tone and of considerable volume."
									

								The Locusta nebulosa
									Harris (1841, 146) and the Oedipoda pellucida
									Provancher (1883, 41) are synonyms of E.
									sordidus.
							

							
								IV. CAMNULA
									Stål, 1873, 114, 120.

								Body short, size below the average for the Oedipodinæ; head compressed; vertex
									with disk ovate-oblong in male, broader in female, 
									its front half declivent, apex rounded, sides low but distinct, median carina very
									faint, female, often absent, male; foveolæ shallow, narrowly triangular; frontal
									costa not prominent, flat or nearly so, narrowed near union with vertex; antennæ
									short, filiform; pronotum as in key, its front margin truncate, hind one
									obtuse-angled, median carina low, cut by a small notch slightly in front of
									middle, more deeply in female; lateral carinæ distinct on both prozona and
									metazona; lateral lobes of pronotum deeper than long, their front margin nearly
									vertical, hind one slightly oblique, lower one as in Encoptolophus; tegmina narrow, surpassing the abdomen, the apical third
									remotely reticulate, the cells quadrate; wings pellucid with dusky venules; hind
									femora equalling or slightly exceeding the abdomen, their upper margin sharp,
									somewhat crested; valves of ovipositor strongly exserted.
								The only species of the genus occurs throughout the northern-most United States
									and southern Canada from the Atlantic to the Pacific. In the marking of the
									tegmina, form and color, it looks much like a diminutive Hippiscus.

								
									112. CAMNULA PELLUCIDA
										(Scudder), 1862, 472. Clear-winged Locust.

									Small, slender, compressed, the size and tegminal markings very variable.
										General color light brown, face reddish-brown; antennæ yellowish at base, apical
										half dusky; a dark triangular spot behind the eye, and an oblong vertical black
										spot on the lateral lobe of prozona. Tegmina smoky-brown, with several darker
										rounded spots on sides, these separated by lighter yellowish blotches; dorsal
										surface usually with a dull yellow stripe along the overlapping margins; wings
										transparent, with dark nervules. Hind femora yellowish-brown, with two or three
										blackish bars on outer face, the knees fuscous; hind tibiæ yellowish-brown,
										basal fourth paler. Abdomen yellowish beneath, the sides darker. Structural
										characters as above given. Length of body, ♂, 17--21, ♀, 21--25; of antennæ, ♂,
										7--9, ♀, 6--8.5; of tegmina, ♂, 16--19, ♀, 19--22; of hind femora, ♂, 10--12, ♀,
										11--14 mm. (Fig. 95.)
								

								This small, dull colored Oedipod has been taken in Indiana only near Bass Lake,
									Starke Co. Here a half dozen specimens, all that could be found during a
									two-hours' search, were taken Aug. 21 from a low marshy tract, on which the grass
									had been cropped short. When flushed, the males flew noiselessly 30 to 50 feet,
									then dropped down and squatted low between the grass blades. The single female was
									more clumsy and did not take to wing. All were found within an area of 100 square
									feet. It is probable that the species occurs in isolated localities throughout the
									northern third of the State.
								In New England Morse (1897, 80) says that it begins to mature about
									July 1, and may be found during the rest of the season.  son. "It is extremely common, even abundant locally, throughout the
									northern part of New England, being probably the most numerous in point of
									individuals of any of our Oedipodinæ. It is found in dry grassy pastures and other
									untilled land, preferably on high ground. The flight is silent or slightly
									rustling, usually low, short and direct, resembling that of a large Melanoplus; when with the wind, however, it is occasionally prolonged for
									several rods in a straight line."
								
									Fig. 95. a, Adult male; b, female; c, nymph; slightly enlarged. (After Simpson.)
								
								The general range of C. pellucida is northern but extends
									across the continent from Nova Scotia and New England, its southern limit east of
									the Mississippi being Monterey, Va., northern Pennsylvania and northern Indiana
									and Illinois. West of that stream it occurs as far south as western Nebraska and
									Chama, New Mexico, and is abundant in California. In some localities it occurs in
									sufficient numbers to be ranked as a serious pest. Gooderham (1917,
										26) says that in Nova Scotia it is very common and their most injurious
									locust. In Idaho and Utah it has often done much damage to growing crops, so much
									so, indeed, that it was the subject of a special circular issued by the United
									States Division of Entomology (Simpson, 1903).
								Writing of it in Minnesota, Somes (1914, 44) says: 
										"In the field it is apparently more free from the attacks of Trombidium and other parasites and less susceptible to fungus diseases
											than the Melanopli, although confined in our cages it died
											off very largely from fungous troubles. Normally it is found on high, dry
											soils and at times in some abundance even in the more open parts of forests.
											Its flight is swift and direct without marked aerial stridulation. In the
											field this species oviposits during the latter part of August, the pods being
											rather short, stout, considerably curved, and not firmly cemented. These pods
											are deposited just below the surface of the soil, among the roots of grasses
											or in some cases even above the surface amid the dead grass, and contain from
											20 to 30 eggs each"
									
							

							
								V. HIPrISCUS
									Saussure, 1861, 398. (Gr., "horse" + "little.")

								Species of large size and robust form, having the head large,  subglobose, the cheeks swollen; vertex with disk
									usually broadly triangular, its sides distinct but not sharp; apex rounded or
									obtusely angulate, more or less declivent; median carina present, at least on
									posterior half, and continued back over the occiput in the form of a small central
									ridge; foveolæ present, shallow, usually triangular in form; antennæ little, if
									any, longer than head and pronotum together, filiform, the joints of apical halves
									feebly flattened; pronotum with disk flat or nearly so, usually rugose and bearing
									a number of rounded or oblong tubercles, its front margin truncate, hind one
									usually obtuse or right-angled; median carina rather prominent, in our eastern
									species cut once by the principal sulcus; lateral carinæ usually extending a short
									distance in front of this sulcus, but not cut by it; lateral lobes of pronotum
									about as long as deep, constricted near middle, their front margin slightly
									sinuate, hind one oblique or subvertical, lower one with its posterior half
									rounded, front half obliquely ascending, its lower hind angle usually broadly
									rounded; tegmina considerably exceeding the abdomen; hind femora stout, depressed,
									dilated at base, the inner face usually bicolored; hind tibiæ pale red or yellow,
									their spines black; valves of ovipositor robust, strongly exserted.
								As already noted, R. & H., following Kirby, have raised Saussure's subgenus
										Pardalophora (1884, 83) to generic rank. That subgeneric name
									was based primarily on the absence of cross carinæ of the vertex, thus leaving its
									disk entire instead of quadripartite as in Hippiscus rugosus. I
									have pointed out (footnote, p. 246) that this is a minor character, the transverse
									carina being almost as often present as absent in individuals of the same species.
									The other characters used by Saussure in separating the two subgenera, viz., the
									form of the frontal costa and length and form of metazona, I regard as of specific
									value only as they are so regarded in Arphia. I therefore follow
										Scudder (1892, 265) in discarding Pardalophora
									and placing all our eastern species under the older name Hippiscus. Under the two names, Hippiscus and Pardalophora, Kirby (1910, 203, 206) places 14
									species, 12 belonging to the U. S. fauna, the other two to that of Mexico. Some of
									these are known synonyms and only four occur in the eastern States. They comprise
									the largest and in places some of the most common of our Oedipodinæ.

								
									KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF HIPPISCUS.

									a. Metazona distinctly longer than prozona, its hind margin acute-angled
										(Fig. 96, b); vertex with front half of disk prolonged,
										narrowing gradually; ulnar area of tegmina dark, but without distinct spots;
										wings pinkish-red at base. 113. APICULATUS.



									

									aa. Metazona and prozona subequal in length, the former with hind margin
										right-angled or obtuse-angled (Fig. 96, a); vertex with front
										half of disk not prolonged, narrowing rapidly; ulnar area of tegmina distinctly
										spotted; wings, (except rarely in haldemanii) yellow or
										orange-red at base.

									
										Fig. 96. Side views of head and pronotum. a, of Hippiscus rugosus; b, of H. apiclatus; c, of
												Spharagemon bolli; d, of Scirtetica
												picta. (After Morse and Walden.)
									

									b. Frontal costa strongly sulcate below the ocellus, distinctly narrowed
										between or above the antennæ; opposite apical spurs of hind tibiæ subequal in
										length.
									c. Inner face of hind femora banded with black, blue at base; tubercles
										on disk of metazona rounded or oblong, not forming ridges parallel to hind
										margin. 114. PHŒNICOPTERUS.
									cc. Inner face of hind femora uniform yellowish; tubercles on disk of
										metazona more or less united to form oblique ridges parallel to hind margin. 115. HALDEMANII.
									bb. Frontal costa but feebly sulcate below the ocellus, not narrowed
										above the antennæ; opposite apical spurs of hind tibiæ very unequal in length.
											116. RUGOSUS.
								

								
									113. HIPPISCUS APICULATUS
										(Harris), 1835, 576. Coral-winged Locust.

									Very large, robust, the females much the more so. General color ash-brown,
										darker above, the cheeks paler; antennæ yellowish at base, the apical two-thirds
										gradually darkening to fuscous. Pronotum with a short, dark brown, lengthwise
										bar on middle of lateral lobes, below which the lobe is usually paler than
										above. Apical third of tegmina blotched with fuscous and black, the humeral
										angle light brown, the discoidal and ulnar areas usually almost immaculate;
										basal portion of wings bright coral-red (rarely yellow), this bordered without
										by a curved fuscous band which reaches anal angle and sends a broad submarginal
										ray along the front or costal margin nearly to base. Inner face of hind femora
										with basal half black (prussian blue in life), apical half yellow with a median
										black bar; outer face with indistinct bars of black; hind tibiæ dull yellow,
										sometimes with an orange tinge. Vertex prominent, its sides low, distinct, not
										uniting in front but continuous with those of frontal costa; median carina
										reaching center of disk; foveolæ triangular, very small. Frontal costa almost
										flat, feebly sulcate below, the ocellus, the upper third slightly narrowed.
										Antennæ short, equalling length of head and pronotum, the joints a little
										flattened. Pronotum with disk almost flat, but little wrinkled, granulate and
										bearing a few small rounded black tubercles; median carina low, distinct, cut
										much in front of middle by principal sulcus; lateral carinæ distinct only on
										metazona. Hind femora very broad, the upper and lower carinæ prominent, arcuate.
										Length of body, ♂, 25--30, ♀, 36--44; of antennæ, ♂, 11--13, ♀, 12--14; of
										pronotum, ♂, 8, ♀, 11; of tegmina, ♂, 24--31, ♀, 32--37; of hind femora, ♂,
										15--18, ♀, 19--23 mm. (Fig. 97.)
								



								

								This is the H. tuberculatus Beauv. of most authors, including
									myself (1903, 265). R. & H. (1910a, 630) have shown that
										Beauvois (1805, 145) gave the name of a European species, Gryllus tuberculatus Fab., to a figure of our American insect,,
									supposing them to be identical. They have therefore substituted the next oldest
									name apiculatus Harris, for tuberculatus.
								
									
									Fig. 97. Female. (After Lugger.)
								
								The female of the coral-winged locust is the largest and most bulky of our
									Indiana Oedipodinæ. The males, as the measurements show, are much smaller. This
									locust probably occurs throughout the State, but is most abundant in the southern
									or driftless portion, where the soil is poor and the hills high, and in the
									northwest portion, where the sand covered area is extensive. It has not been noted
									in the richer and more level regions of the central and eastern portions of the
									State. The winter is passed in the nymph stage, the young being "curious little
									depressed, toad-like objects" (Fig. 98) of a dull leaden color. Mature examples
									have been taken in Monroe County as early as April 20th, and in Crawford County as
									late as July 10th. The northern examples are smaller, darker colored, and may
									probably be found a month later.
								
									
									Fig. 98. Hippiscus apiculatus (Harris). Nymph. (After
										Lugger.)
								
								This locust frequents, for the most part, timothy meadows, upland pastures,
									roadsides, and especially bare or scantily vegetated slopes and sandy plains. When
									in flight it is very conspicuous, owing to its large size and bright-colored inner
									wings. The males are ready and active flyers, moving rapidly for quite a distance,
									making, meanwhile, a loud rattling note which can be heard at a distance of
									several rods. The females seldom take to wing, but leap clumsily when approached,
									and are more readily captured. The head, pronotum and hind femora are often
									largely greenish.
								H. apiculatus occurs throughout New England and ranges from
									Maine and Montreal north and northwest to Hudson Bay,  Great Slave Lake and Alberta, Canada, west in this country to Montana and
									Wyoming and south and southwest to North Carolina, Virginia, Missouri and Kansas.
									It is recorded from Florida by Saussure (1884, 88) and from Mexico by
									F. Walker, but these records were probably based on wrong identifications.
										Scudder (1892, 303) reports it from Nova Scotia, but it is not
									listed by either Piers or Gooderham, and Piers (1918, 278) says that
									he is "very strongly of the opinion that some mistake was made by Scudder in his
									record." In Ontario, Walker (1898, 260) found "great disparity in the
									relative number of the two sexes," stating that in five years he had seen more
									than 100 males, but only four females. There it occurs "on light sandy soil,
									covered preferably with rather long grass and generally with other plants, as
									lupine, scrub oak, blueberries, etc. It appears from about the 12th of May till
									near the end of June, the nymphs being found late in autumn and again in early
									spring. Wherever I have found this species it has been associated with Arphia sulphurea."
								The rarity of the females noted by Walker is probably not so much a reality as a
									successful hiding by that sex, as in this and many other of our larger locusts the
									female relies upon concealment for escape rather than upon flight, as does the
									more active male. The Oedipoda obliterata Burm. and Locusta corallina Harris are synonyms of H. apiculatus.
									The latter has also been confused many times by American writers with H. phœnicopterus (Burm.), it having been treated under that name by
										Scudder (1862) and Thomas (1873).

								
									114. HIPPISCUS PHŒNICOPTERUS
										(Burmeister), 1838, 643. Orange-winged Locust.

									General color ash or reddish-brown, the males darker; face ash-brown or
										clay-yellow; occiput and disk of pronotum dark brown; all of these parts, as
										well as the upper and lower outer faces of hind femora often prettily tinged
										with greenish. Tegmina ash-brown, with numerous large dark brown or blackish
										spots, those of female more distinct, the light interspaces being wider, the
										largest of these spots on the lower third being just behind the expanded basal
										lobe. Wings deep orange (rarely yellow) at base, this hue bordered behind by a
										curved black band extending from costal margin to anal angle, this sending off
										nearly to base the usual dark submarginal spur; apical fourth transparent and
										smoky, the extreme tip in male with one or two fuscous blotches. Inner face of
										hind femora deep blue, with an orange bar near apex; outer face reddish or
										yellowish-brown, with three black bars on upper portion. Hind tibiæ yellowish,
										often tinged with orange, the spines tipped with black. Vertex prominent, basal
										two-thirds broad, sides distinct, suddenly converging opposite front half of
										eyes but not uniting in front; disk with median carina low and in females often
										with a cross carina on posterior half; foveolæ small, distinct, triangular.  Frontal costa as in key, the upper third narrowed,
										punctate. Antennæ slightly shorter than head and pronotum, female, equalling
										their length, male; filiform, the segments feebly flattened. Pronotum with disk
										a little wrinkled on prozona, covered somewhat regularly with small rounded
										tubercles, these more prominent in female; metazona flat, its hind margin
										right-angled, male, obtuse-angled, female; median carina low but distinct, cut
										by principal sulcus slightly in front of middle; lateral carina subobsolete,
										with traces only on metazona. Tegmina with basal lobe of lower margin noticeably
										expanded, especially in female. Hind femora broadly dilated, the upper and lower
										margins much elevated, sharp, curved. Length of body, ♂, 31--33, ♀, 42--45; of
										antennæ, ♂, 12.5, ♀, 13.5; of pronotum, ♂, 8.5, ♀, 11; of tegmina, ♂, 27--33, ♀,
										38--43; of hind femora, ♂, 17--18, ♀, 21--23 mm.
								

								This large and handsome locust has been taken in Indiana only in Crawford,
									Lawrence and Jennings counties. In the vicinity of Wyandotte Cave, Crawford Co.,
									it is in the latter half of June and first part of July, one of the most common of
									the Oedipodinæ. It occurs only on the uplands, where it frequents grain fields,
									open bare places in the woods, roadsides and timothy meadows. The male, when
									flushed, flies rapidly for a long distance, making a low rattling note while in
									the air; the female, as in kindred species, is too heavy-bodied to take to wing
									gracefully, and therefore more often moves by leaping. In the vicinity of North
									Vernon and Mitchell, males only were seen. It probably occurs throughout the
									southern third of the State, where it doubtless winters in the nymph stage.
								The range of H. phœnicopterus is, in the main, confined to the
									Austral life zone, extending from southern New Jersey westward to southern
									Indiana, Moline, Illinois, and eastern Nebraska, and south and southwestward to
									Florida, Mississippi, Oklahoma and Texas. In Florida it has been taken by me only
									in the nymph stage, at Ormond, Sanford and Dunedin. About Dunedin the nymphs are
									quite common in February and March along the railway embankments, roadsides and
									sandy spots in open pine woods. It is recorded from numerous places in northern
									Florida, but is uncommon in the southern portion, though taken at Miami.
								Morse (1907, 34) states that "in early summer it is the commonest
									species of the genus from Arkansas eastward, frequenting fields and waste grounds,
									and sometimes entering the more open forests." Vestal (1913, 21) says
									that in central Illinois it is common in bunch grass on sand prairies, winters in
									the nymph stage and matures probably late in May. He adds: "There is in Illinois a
									time adjustment with species of Hippiscus much as in Arphia. H. apiculatus is the earliest, followed by phœnicopterus and haldemanii, which in turn gives place
									to rugosus." >Oedipoda  coidea
									Serv. (1839, 724) and Hippiscus texanus
									Scudd. (1892, 286) are now regarded as synonyms of H.
										phœnicopterus.
								
									Fig. 99. Female. (After Lugger.)
								

								
									115. HIPPISCUS HALDEMANII
										(Scudder), 1872, 251. Haldeman's Locust.

									Form and size of phœnicopterus the males much the smaller.
										General color grayish-brown, varied with numerous dark spots Face ash-gray, the
										cheeks and a spot back of eye paler; vertex, occiput and disk of pronotum
										darker; lateral lobe of prozona with a black bar at middle. Tegmina with a
										narrow yellowish line along each humeral angle, dorsal area brownish, unbroken;
										sides with dark spots as shown in Fig. 99. Wings with basal half lemon-yellow or
										orange-red, rarely pinkish; the remaining portion as in phœnicopterus. Hind
										femora with inner face bright yellow;43 the outer one brownish-yellow with traces of three
										very oblique cross bars. Hind tibiæ light yellow, tinged with orange in the
										male. Vertex broad, its disk circular or subquadrate narrowed in front, often
										containing several minute tubercles, sides low, distinctly curved, median carina
										reaching the center, females often with a transverse carina behind the middle;
										foveolæ small but distinct, triangular. Face nearly vertical Antennæ slender,
										about the length of head and pronotum together. Pronotum short, the prozona
										subcylindrical, constricted; metazona as in key, its hind margin right angled,
										male, obtuse-angled, female; median carina low in female, indistinct on prozona,
										cut slightly in front of middle by the principal sulcus, lateral carinæ distinct
										on hind part of prozona and front half of metazona. Tegmina surpassing the
										abdomen about one-fourth their length. Hind femora relatively slender, much
										narrower proportionally than in any other of our species of Hippiscus, reaching tip of abdomen, female, slightly 43Thomas (1873, 13I)
											says: "Inside of posterior femora and posterior tibiæ a bright coral red," but
											this does not hold good of Indiana and Nebraska specimens at hand.
										 passing it, male. Length of body, ♂, 27--35, ♀,
										42--46; of antennæ, ♂, 12, ♀, 14; of pronotum, ♂, 7, ♀, 10; of tegmina, ♂,
										27--30, ♀, 38--42; of hind femora, ♂, 15--17, ♀, 21--23 mm. (Fig. 99.)
								

								This species has been taken in Indiana only near Pine, Lake County, where eight
									specimens were secured on June 20. They were found on open, sparsely vegetated
									sandy tracts, about a fourth of a mile back from the shore of Lake Michigan. One
									of the females has the inner wings pinkish or coral-red, as in tuberculatus; two have them orange-red, the other yellow. Of the four
									males, two have yellow and two orange-colored wings. This is the most eastern
									record for the species, and it probably occurs in Indiana only in the sand-covered
									area of the northwestern portion.
								The known range of H. haldemanii extends from northwestern
									Indiana to Colorado, south to southern Illinois and middle Kansas. It is not
									recorded in any of the Canadian lists, though it probably occurs in southern
									Manitoba. From Illinois Hart (1907, 232) has recorded it as common in
									the sand region, associated with H. phœnicopterus. He adds: "The
									intercalary vein in Hippiscus, especially in this species and
										phœnicopterus, is quite prominent and bears a row of minute
									tubercles, as in Mecostethus; and the upper carina of the
									internal face of the hind femur is rubbed against it, causing a distinct rasping
									stridulation. The sound may be easily produced in this way in freshly killed
									individuals. In all the Illinois Oedipodinæ the same structure of the intercalary
									vein occurs, and presumably also the same habit of stridulation by means of it
									when not flying."
								Bruner (1897, 131) says that haldemanii is "one of
									the most common large mottled locusts in eastern and middle Nebraska," but in
									Minnesota Somes found it very scarce and says: "It is more solitary in habit than
									most members of the genus, but one specimen being found in each of three
									localities, these among the low scattered grasses of very dry soils." It is not
									listed by Gillette (1904) from Colorado, though recorded from there
									by Scudder (1892, 286). The Hippiscus nanus
									Saussure (1884, 86), described from Colorado, is regarded as a
									synonym and the Illinois records of Oedipoda neglecta Thos. and
									the Hippiscus tuberculatus of McNeill (1891, 63)
									are to be referred to haldemanii.

								
									116. HIPPISCUS RUGOSUS
										(Scudder), 1862, 469. Wrinkled Locust.

									Form rather bulky, short-bodied. General color light to dark brown; face and
										abdomen brownish-yellow; disk of pronotum with a pale, x-shaped mark, often
										absent in female. Antennæ yellow at base, apical half reddish-fuscous. Tegmina
										ash-gray, often darker in male, the sides and dorsal area with numerous dark
										brown or fuscous oblong or rounded spots, those on middle of sides larger;
										apical third often semi-transparent, with  spots
										much smaller and more irregular in shape. Wings with basal half varying from a
										pallid tint through pale lemon-yellow to deep orange, the outer half with curved
										black band and transparent apex as in phœenicopterus. Hind
										femora bright yellow within, with three transverse bars of black; dull clay
										yellow without, with three more or less distinct, very oblique fuscous bars.
										Hind tibiæ yellow, with a paler ring near base. Occiput convex; vertex with disk
										ill defined, almost flat, strongly declivent, broader than long in both sexes,
										the median carina extending to front border and with oblique cross carinæ
										dividing the disk into four subequal portions, the front pair the more distinct;
										lateral foveolæ shallow, elongate-triangular. Frontal costa broad, flat,
										punctate. Antennæ about as long as head and pronotum, female, a third longer,
										male. Pronotum with median carina low, cut near middle by the principal sulcus;
										metazona flat or nearly so, not greatly widened, its hind margin obtuse-angled,
										surface with numerous low, oblong-elongate glistening tubercles, its lateral
										lobes thickly punctate and lateral carinæ ill defined. Tegmina relatively broad,
										exceeding the abdomen in both sexes. Hind femora moderately slender, equalling
										or surpassing the abdomen by one-fourth their length, the basal half depressed.
										dilated. Length of body, ♂, 28--36, ♀, 37--42; of antennæ, ♂, 12--13, ♀, 11--12;
										of pronotum, ♂, 7, ♀, 9; of tegmina, ♂, 24--32, ♀, 28--36; of hind femora, ♂,
										16.5--18, ♀, 21--23 mm. (Fig. 100.)
								
								
									Fig. 100. Male. (After Lugger.)
								

								This is the most common species of Hippiscus in Indiana, being
									especially abundant in the central and southern portions, but scarce in the north,
									where it has been collected only in Fulton and Marshall counties. In central
									Indiana it begins to reach maturity about July 20th, from eggs hatched in the
									spring. Like others of its kind, it frequents only dry, upland localities, being
									especially abundant in open woodland pastures, timothy and clover meadows, along
									roadsides and rail fences. The males are shy, usually taking to flight when an
									intruder is a rod away and moving in a straight line in the direction they happen
									to be headed, without noise, save the rustling of their wings. The females are
									very clumsy, being readily picked up with the fingers. I have often placed one of
									them on the palm of one hand and with  the other
									stroked gently its back and antennæ without having it attempt to escape. Mating
									takes place in late August and September, and the males then mostly perish, while
									the females are to be found much longer, sometimes as late as November 5th.
									Orange-winged females of rugosus are more common than males,
									probably one third of them having the wings of that hue.
								The general range of H. rugosus extends from Maine and
									Massachusetts, where it is rare, west to Colorado and south and southwest to
									northern Florida, Mobile, Ala., Oklahoma and central Texas. It is not recorded
									from Canada or Michigan, but occurs throughout Illinois, Iowa and Nebraska, and
									has been taken at several points in Minnesota. In Florida it has been recorded
									only from De Funiak Springs, Live Oak and Jacksonville. Allard (1916,
										277) calls it "a most clumsy, inactive locust, readily captured and
									without distinct stridulation."
								In my former work (1903, 272) I pointed out that H. variegatus
									Scudder (1892, 301) is only a little stouter bodied, lighter colored
									form of rugosus. In this I have been followed by R. &
										H. (1916, 182), who state that H. compactus and H. suturalis
									Scudder (1892, 288, 301); H. citrinus
									Scudder (190fd, 88) and H. immaculatus
									Morse (1906, 119) are, in their opinion, also synonyms of H. rugosus; all having been based particularly upon minor color
									differences, or upon "other characters which are without exception worthless, due
									to their variability or to the fact that they are so slight as to be
									unappreciable."
							

							
								VI. DISSOSTEIRA
									Scudder, 1876, 511. (Gr., "double" + "barren.")

								Medium or large sized locusts, having the body slender, strongly compressed;
									vertex with disk sub-pentagonal or ovate, the front half declivent; sides narrow,
									sharp, converging in front of eyes, the front margin a low angulate ridge, female,
									or angulate depression, male; median carina present but indistinct; foveolæ short,
									triangular; frontal costa sulcate and a little narrowed below the ocellus;
									pronotum with disk of prozona tectiform, its front margin subangulate, of metazona
									flat with hind margin obtuse-angled; median carina high, sharp, on metazona
									strongly arched, cut distinctly in front of middle by a deep, oblique notch;
									lateral carinæ rounded, cut by the principal sulcus and subobsolete in front of
									it; lateral lobes of pronotum deeper than long, their front margin vertical, hind
									one oblique, lower one with posterior half rounded, anterior half oblique; tegmina
									broad, much exceeding the abdomen, their apical third membranous; intercalary vein
									very distinct and nearly intermediate between median and ulnar veins;  wings long, wide, black, with a narrow, yellowish
									outer border, apex fuscous; hind femora slender, a little shorter than abdomen in
									both sexes; valves of ovipositor curved, acute, feebly exserted. Six species of
									the genus are accredited to the United States, one of which inhabits our
									territory.

								
									117. DISSOSTEIRA CAROLINA
										(Linnæus), 1758, 433. Carolina Locust. Black-winged Locust.

									General color varying from light grayish-yellow through bright reddish brown
										to dark fuscous, usually dull ashy-brown, sprinkled with numerous small dusky
										spots; these most numerous on pronotum and tegmina, on the latter sometimes
										forming three more or less distinct crossbands. Wings deep black except the
										outer border, which is pale greenish-yellow, the apex smoky gray with a few
										darker spots. Hind femora reddish-brown, faintly annulate with paler near knee
										and with three broad black bands on inner face, upper outer face indistinctly
										barred with fuscous. Hind tibiæ yellowish or dusky. Length of body, ♂, 24--33,
										♀, 33--40; of antennæ, ♂, 9.5--11, ♀, 11.5--13; of pronotum, ♂, 7, ♀, 10; of
										tegmina, ♂, 29--34, ♀, 36--43; of hind femora, ♂, 13--15, ♀,16--20 mm. (Fig.
										101.)
								
								
									Fig. 101. Dissosteira carolina (Linn.). Female. (After
										Lugger.)
								

								The black-winged locust occurs everywhere throughout Indiana and to the casual
									observer appears to be our most common species, but there are a dozen which are
									more abundant. Its numbers appear multiplied because it frequents the highways and
									by-ways of man rather than the pastures and meadows where other grasshoppers are
									wont to congregate. Moreover, when disturbed, it more often betakes itself to the
									bare earth than to the green grass. Why this absurd taste asks the person
									uninitiated in the doings of nature's objects. For the simple reason that the dust
									of the roadside and the gravel ballast of the railway correspond so closely with
									the color of its back that its best friends and worst enemies will overlook it if
									it will only remain quiet. Yea, even that sharp-eyed connoisseur of grasshopper
									tid-bits, the  turkey gobbler, oftentimes walks
									right over it, mistaking it for a wayside pebble.
								Mature specimens of this "Carolina locust," hatched from eggs in spring, have
									been taken in Vigo County, Ind., as early as June 14th and as late as November
									22d. It is usually common and mating by July 5th. Either there are two broods each
									year, or else the eggs hatch at irregular intervals, as freshly moulted
									individuals have been observed on a number of dates in September, and as late as
									October 14th. On one occasion, while passing through a wheat field in late
									September, I observed clinging to the stems of weeds, several specimens of what
									appeared to be the bodies of grasshoppers with the wings of the common
									sulphur-yellow butterfly attached to them. Such a combination aroused my
									curiosity, but a closer examination proved them to be specimens of this common
									black-winged locust which had just moulted for the last time, and spread out their
									soft wings to dry. The inner wings, instead of being black, were light yellow, but
									in three or four hours thereafter had changed to their usual color.
								This locust is often seen along the walks and in the yards of our larger cities
									and I have seen specimens about the base of the Soldiers' Monument in the very
									center of the city of Indianapolis. Both sexes use the wings almost wholly in
									their travels, and when flushed move in a noiseless, zigzag, seemingly aimless
									manner for quite a distance, the flight being often more like that of a butterfly
									than of a locust. Their hind legs are used only in giving themselves an upward
									impetus from the ground and hence are much smaller proportionally than are those
									of such locusts as leap rather than fly, while their wings are much longer and
									stronger.
								The Carolina locust is apparently scarce in Florida and confined to the northern
									portion of the State. It has not been taken by me therein, but has been recorded
									from Jacksonville and Enterprise by Scudder (1877a, 89) and from
									Marianna by Morse. Specimens are in the Gainesville collection from Lake City, and
									a pair at hand from Gainesville were taken Sept. 20 by Fattig.
								The distribution of D. carolina is as wide as that of any other
									of our locusts, being practically coextensive with America north of Mexico.
									Scudder gives its range as "U. S. and Canada, ocean to ocean;" Kirby, as "N.
									America," and Fox, "All temperate North America from the Atlantic to the Pacific."
									It is, says Morse (1897, 87) : "Probably the best known of any of the
									Oedipodinæ, owing to its conspicuous black wings and habit of frequenting
									roadsides. From the prevailing brown tints of its color it has in some localities
									received the name of 'Quaker.' In correlation  with
									its large wing expanse its flight is powerful and erratic, and in hot August
									afternoons it may often be seen hovering motionless in the air or dancing up and
									down above a particular spot and stridulating, an act which is doubtless to be
									considered as a sort of courtship. It is an alert species, well able to take care
									of itself, and on warm days rather difficult to capture."
								In Indiana I have often observed this curious ærial hovering, not only by. the
									black-winged locust, but by Spharagemon bolli and other
									Oedipods. Townsend (1891, 44) has written of it as follows: 
										"On August 24 I noted an individual of D. carolina perform
											three times in succession, and then another alighted on the ground by its
											side. They ran by each other several times, apparently clasping, probably in
											conflict, for I am quite sure they were both males. At last one of them flew
											away and the other soon after renewed the performance. In going through with
											it they rise at first about three or four feet, making a light purring or
											beating sound, and then rising higher, change the motion of the wings, when a
											curious sharp, see-sawing sound is produced. Some rise even higher than six
											feet in the last act, others only two or three feet. Many do not remain in
											just the same place while hovering, but vary, falling or jerking about while
											endeavoring to keep the same point in the air. Of course some excel others in
											the beauty and ease with which they accomplish the feat and I am of the
											opinion that the females are sensitive to the grace with which it is
											performed."
									

								Somes (1914, 53) says: 
										"From a distance this performance of D. carolina resembles
											the hovering of the 'Mourning Cloak' butterfly, Euvanessa
												antiopa, more than the actions of a grasshopper. This habit is
											occasionally seen in a few other related insects, such as some of the Arphias, Camnula pellucida, and Circotettix
												verruculatus. It has been thought by some to be in some way attractive
											to the opposite sex, but as Hancock (1911, 342) has noted, we
											often find this demonstration occurring only when males are near, and on the
											whole it appears more likely a form of play, possibly akin to the jumping
											contests of small boys. The insect is very social in its habits and
											individuals meeting will sometimes pause and wave the antennæ with every
											appearance of an informal conversation. The males are very ardent in their
											courtship, and on one occasion we found four unsuccessful males clinging to a
											mating pair so closely as to form a compact mass of locusts, not even
											releasing their hold when we rolled them gently down an incline."
									
								McNeill (1887, 58) has shown that while the length of body is
									greater in D. longipennis Thos. than in D.
										carolina, the tegmina are proportionally longer in both sexes of carolina and absolutely longer in the male of that species, so
									that the latter, in spite of the names, is the long-winged form. However, D. longipennis, which ranges from "Idaho and Montana to New Mexico
									and Texas," has other characters sufficiently defining it as a valid species.
							


							

							
								VII. SPHARAGEMON
									Scudder 1875a, 467. (Gr., "to crackle.")

								Medium sized species, having the body slender, more or less compressed; head
									somewhat swollen above; vertex shaped much as in Dissosteira,
									but the sides converging more rapidly, median carina faint or wanting, angled
									front margin absent, foveolæ wider and more distinct; frontal costa narrow,
									sulcate, at least below the ocellus, its margins feebly converging above the
									antennæ and continuous with those of vertex; antennæ in both sexes about as long
									as hind femora, filiform, the joints of basal third slightly flattened; pronotum
									with disk of metazona flat, that of prozona more or less tectiform; median carina
									usually high, strongly compressed, cut slightly in front of middle by a deep but
									narrow notch, that portion on metazona usually more or less arched; lateral carinæ
									usually distinct only on metazona; lateral lobes as in Dissosteira; tegmina relatively shorter than in Dissosteira, the intercalary vein less distinct and nearer the median than
									the ulnar vein; wings yellow, with a dark curved median band, the outer portion
									hyaline; hind femora rather stout and short, equalling or slightly surpassing the
									tip of abdomen; hind tibiæ, in our species, usually with at least the apical half
									red; valves of ovipositor short, but little exserted.
								This genus is so closely related structurally to Dissosteira
									that Saussure (1884, 135) placed it as a subgenus under that name,
									though Spharagemon has priority. Both Scudder
										(1875a) and Morse (1895a) have published revisions of the genus, treating
									the species known to them at the dates given. All the forms are very closely
									related, so much so, indeed, that a satisfactory separation of the species is a
									most perplexing problem to the systematist. Morse considered several of our
									eastern forms as only geographic races of the older named species, but Scudder
									evidently did not agree with him for in his catalogue (1900) he failed to list
									Morse's var. scudderi either as a variety or synonym, and placed
										wyomingianum as a distinct species and not as a variety of collare. If this omission and placement were intentional and not
									an oversight he was, from my viewpoint, not far wrong in his conclusions.
								In regard to the general color of the various forms, Morse (1895a,
										288) has well said: "Variation in color in this genus, in common with
									other Oedipodinæ, counts for very little; the same species or race may be of all
									shades from a general dark fuscous to a pale buff or even a bright reddish-brown,
									even in specimens from the same spot, yet it is probable that the general tint of
									a large series will be found to agree with the color of the soil of the locality
									or other peculiarity of environment."


								

								Kirby, who does not recognize races or varieties in his Catalogue, though he
									includes numerous known synonyms as species, accredits to Spharagemon (1910, 233) 11 species, ten from the United States and one
									from Mexico. I believe that two of the so-called varieties of Morse are valid
									species, and recognize five species as inhabiting the Eastern States.

								
									KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF SPHARAGEMON.

									a. Hind tibiæ with a distinct pale ring on basal third, back of or
										behind which is a black one of equal width; median carina of pronotum equally
										compressed throughout (Fig. 90, c, d.)
									b. Apical two-fifths of hind tibiæ bright coral-red; hind margin of
										metazona of male obtuse- or at most right-angled. 118. BOLLI.
									bb. Apical two-fifths of hind tibiæ dull brownish-yellow, tinged with
										fuscous; hind margin of metazona of male acute-angled. 119. CREPITANS.
									aa. Hind tibiæ usually wholly red or dull yellow, rarely with a pale
										subbasal ring, and this then without a black one behind it; basal or distal
										third of prozonal disk more or less elevated and broadly joined to median
										carina, making the latter unequally compressed at that point (Fig. 90, e, g.)
									c. Median carina of prozona with upper edge more or less sinuate; hind
										margin of metazona obtuse- or at most right-angled; hind tibiæ with an ill
										defined pale ring near base.
									d. General color grayish-brown, the tegmina distinctly mottled and
										barred with fuscous; median carina of pronotum relatively high, distinctly
										arched on metazona; posterior prozonal tip of median carina projected back
										partly over the deep suboblique notch. (Fig. 90, g.) 120. SAXATILE.
									dd. General color purplish-brown, the tegmina but feebly maculate;
										median carina of pronotum, especially in female, very low, nearly straight on
										metazona; posterior prozonal tip of carina not projected backward over the
										shallow nearly vertical notch. 121. PLANUM.
									cc. Median carina of prozona cristate with upper edge straight or feebly
										arched, its hind margin strongly projected backward to partly or wholly cover
										the very oblique notch (Fig. 90, e, f); hind margin of
										metazona acute-angled; hind tibiæ without a pale ring at base. 122. WYOMINGIANUM.44
								

								
									118. SPHARAGEMON BOLLI
										Scudder, 1875a, 469. Boll's Locust.

									Size large for the genus, the males but little the smaller. Ground color
										variable, that of male usually grayish or fuscous, of female rusty brown or pale
										buff, the face grayish or yellowish; antennæ brownish or grayish at base,
										fuscous at apex. Tegmina sprinkled throughout with minute blackish spots, these
										in male aggregated into three more or less distinct dark cross bars; female
										often with only faint traces of these bars visible.
								

								44A northwestern
									species, S. collare Scudder, has been recorded from northern
									Illinois by Scudder (I875a, 470) and from northern Indiana by
										Morse (I895a, 297), but these records were probably based on S. wyominingianum as no specimens of undoubted collare from either of these two states have been taken in recent
									years.


								

								
									Wings pale greenish-yellow at base this hue followed by a broad median
										curved fuscous band which gives off an inward projecting spur near front margin;
										apical third of wing transparent smoky, the extreme tip in male often of same
										hue as median band. Hind femora with alternating bars of black and yellow, three
										each, on inner face; outer face dull yellowish or grayish-brown with three or
										four oblique indistinct dark brown bands; hind tibiæ as described in key. Vertex
										almost flat, its sides low, converging in front to meet those of frontal costa;
										foveolæ distinct, triangular. Pronotum with disk but feebly rugose; median
										carina higher in male than in female, prozonal portion more cristate than
										metazonal, the latter more elevated in front than behind, the notch of carina
										subvertical. Length of body, ♂, 20--28, ♀, 27--36; of antennæ, ♂, 12--15, ♀,
										13--16; of pronotum, ♂, 7, ♀, 9; of tegmina, ♂, 25--32, ♀, 27--34; of hind
										femora, ♂, 14--16, ♀, 13--19 mm. (Figs. 96c., 102.)
								

								This is a common locust throughout the central and southern thirds of Indiana,
									but much less numerous northward, where it seems to be replaced in part by S. wyomingianum, though it has been taken in Starke and Lake
									counties. It frequents paths and bare places in dry upland woodland pastures,
									especially those which include the slopes of high hills, roadsides and stubble
									fields. In the northern counties it is found most abundantly along the sandy edges
									of woodlands and in old fields. In Crawford County mature specimens from eggs
									hatched in spring, have been taken on June 25th; in Vigo County, on June 30th. The
									males fly much farther than the females and on arising from the ground emit a
									short and rather low rattling note. The females are clumsy in their movements, and
									prefer, after being flushed once or twice, to lie still when approached, as close
									to the ground as possible, relying upon their protective coloration to prevent
									discovery.
								
									Fig. 102. Male. (After Lugger.)
								
								The known range of S. bolli is a wide one, extending from Maine
									and southern Ontario, west to Aweme, Manitoba and Colorado, and south and
									southwest to northern Florida, Oklahoma, central Texas and Las Vegas, New Mexico.
									In Florida it appears to be scarce, the only definite known locality being
									Tallahassee, the other records from the northern part of the State being based on
										S. crepitans. In Ontario Walker (1898, 261) found
									it common  locally between June 24 and October, its
									stridulation being "a rapid and rather loud rattling sound resembling that of Arphia sulphurea." Morse (1907,37) says that: "It is
									one of the few sylvan geophilous locusts, its distribution coinciding with that of
									dry woodlands. In the Northern States it frequents old sandy fields as well as the
									more open woods and forest paths and margins. It is widely and generally
									distributed in suitable localities throughout its range, never becoming abundant
									even locally."
								Individuals of S. bolli, like those of D.
										carolina and other Oedipods, have, in late summer, the peculiar habit of
									sustaining themselves in the air, about three feet above the ground, for several
									minutes. While poising in this manner above one spot, they make a dry, rustling
									note, which is perhaps a call to some nearby member of the opposite sex. The S. balteatum
									Scudder (1875a, 469) is a synonym of S. bolli.

								
									119. SPHARAGEMON CREPITANS
										(Saussure), 1884, 140. Crepitating Locust.

									This form was separated by Saussure as a variety of bolli,
										his brief differential diagnosis, freely translated, being as follows: "More
										slender: crest of pronotum lower, scarcely arcuate, dorsum (of pronotum) densely
										granulate. Wings narrower, the apex hyaline; humeral field narrower, with apex
										subparabolic, the fuscous fascia of disk narrower. Hind femora more slender,
										their lower margin less dilated. Length of body, ♀, 36; tegmina, 36 mm."
								

								S. crepitans was placed as a distinct species by Morse
										(1895a, 290) and I believe justly so. The two forms can be readily
									distinguished by the characters given in the key; R. & H. (1916,
										185) stating that numerous specimens show clearly that "the caudal tibiæ
									are never as highly colored as in S. bolli, and are in the
									majority of cases cinnamon-buff." The specimens at hand show that the median
									fuscous band of wing is wider than in bolli, not narrower as
									stated by Saussure; and that the disk of pronotum does not appreciably differ in
									its granulation or rugoseness. However, the front margin of prozona is more
									distinctly angulate and the general coloration more uniform.
								Saussure's type of crepitans, evidently a unique female, was
									from Georgia, and the species is known only from that State and Florida. In
									Florida it has been recorded by R. & H. (loc. cit.) from
									Jacksonville, Carrabelle, Cedar Keys and Key West, they stating that it has never
									been found far inland from the ocean. However, specimens in the Gainesville
									collection were "taken July 28, on a dry slope in an open field near a stream,
									about a mile west of the University." (Watson.) At Cumberland
									Island, Ga., it was found by R. & H. to be "abundant on the sandy soil of a
										 live-oak hammock," and at other localities
									usually among palmetto scrub. At Key West it was taken by them, July 7, under
									bushes in high jungle undergrowth of the keys, where its flight was usually low
									and for short distances.

								
									120. SPHARAGEMON SAXATILE
										Morse, 1894b, 229. Ledge Locust.

									Size medium, rather stout, less compressed than bolli.
										General color as in key, darker above, paler below. Occiput blackish, face and
										cheeks gray, punctate with black and brown; antennæ with basal two-thirds
										annulate with dull yellow and fuscous, apical third uniform fuscous. Pronotum
										gray, mottled with black, disk usually with a broad x-shaped ash-gray blotch,
										widest on metazona. Tegmina brownish at base, then usually trifasciate with
										fuscous; tips transparent, dotted with fuscous. Basal two-fifths or more of
										wings sulphur-yellow, this bordered without by a broad fuscous band, from which
										a subcostal spur projects half way to base; apical fourth of wing transparent
										with veins and small spots fuscous. Hind femora ash-gray barred with fuscous;
										inner face yellow with four blackish bands, the two basal ones more or less
										united. Hind tibiæ coral-red, a pale ring near base, spines tipped with black.
										Vertex elongate-oval, disc concave, sides distinct, converging in front, median
										carina evident but faint; foveolæ small, shallow, subtriangular or v-shaped, the
										basal side not closed. Frontal costa narrow, distinctly sulcate from antennæ
										downward, male; wider, sulcate only below the ocellus, female. Pronotum with
										prozona constricted, rugose; metazona broad, flat, its hind margin
										obtuse-angled, female, right-angled, male; median carina as described in key,
										higher and cristate on prozona, gradually lower to apex on metazona (Fig. 90,
											g); lateral carinæ distinct on metazona and apical third of
										prozona. Tegmina strongly surpassing abdomen in both sexes. Hind femur reaching
										tip of abdomen, female, exceeding it 2--3 mm., male. Length of body, ♂, 20--24,
										♀, 28--34; of antennæ, ♂ and ♀, 12--14; of tegmina, ♂, 21--25, ♀, 25--31; of
										hind femora, ♂, 11.5--14, ♀, 14--17 mm.
								

								Living specimens of this handsome rock frequenting locust were first seen by me
									at North Madison, Conn., Aug. 26--28, 1896. Specimens had been previously received
									from Morse, and I was on the lookout for it. They were found only on the highest
									ledges in sunny open glades along the Hammonasset River. In my field note book I
									wrote at the time: "Spharagemon saxatile occurs only on the
									lichen-covered tops of the ledges. The males are very shy and difficult to
									approach, moving short distances with a quick, almost noiseless flight, in longer
									ones making a rather loud rattling sound. Their hues accord so perfectly with the
									lichens and gray rocks that they must be marked down carefully and even then
									cannot always be seen until they move. A female flutters down within three feet of
									where I am seated. No sooner does she alight and compose herself than two males,
									resting nearby but before unnoticed, make a rush for her. With short ado one
									mounts her back and the other jumps on top of the two. Soon discovering  his mistake he leaps down behind them and sulks in
									disappointment. Arising stealthily with a quick motion I throw the net flat down
									over them and capture the trio at one stroke."
								In the notes following his original description, Morse says: "I have named this
									species saxatile for the reason that it finds life most to its
									taste in unsettled somewhat wooded districts of a rocky, often elevated character.
									Here it finds a congenial home and may be seen during the latter half of the
									season crawling actively about over the lichened ledges, whose tints harmonize
									with its own, or flying from one to another, stridulating loudly as it goes. In
									its fresh state it is one of the most handsome of our New England locusts and even
									cabinet specimens vividly recall the cool gray of the rocks, the glory of the
									golden-rod and the tints of the reddened stems of trailing vines. So well do the
									colors of its body match those of its chosen haunts--the pale greenish-gray and
									ashy of the paler rocks and their lichen coverings, the brown and black of other
									lichens and the darker hornblende and iron-stained weathered rocky
									fragments,--that it is quite difficult to distinguish when at rest, and being an
									extremely alert insect some strategy is required for its capture."
								The known range of saxatile is a limited one, extending from
									Massachusetts and Connecticut south and southwestward in the mountains to Maryland
									and Virginia.

								
									121. SPHARAGEMON PLANUM
										Morse, 1904a, 13.

									Form and size of S. bolli, the body less compressed.
										General color purplish-red in life, fading to dark purplish-brown. Antennæ as in
											saxatile. Tegmina feebly maculate with fuscous, the usual
										transverse fuscous bars faint or wanting. Wings as in S.
										bolli. Hind femora with two more or less distinct fuscous bars on outer
										face; inner face yellow with three black bars, the two basal ones broadly
										connected along the middle and lower margin. Hind tibiæ with knees black,
										bordered behind by a pale ring, apical two-thirds coral-red, the sides sometimes
										tinged with fuscous near the pale basal annulus. Vertex as in saxatile; foveolæ smaller, less distinct, the basal side distinctly
										margined. Frontal costa with sulcus shorter, more shallow, male, longer and
										deeper, female, than in corresponding sexes of saxatile.
										Pronotum with median carina of almost equal height throughout; much lower and
										less arched in both sexes than in saxatile; prozona not
										constricted nor with its surface rugose as there, the first transverse sulcus
										almost cutting its crest at basal third; metazona with hind margin obtuse-angled
										in both sexes; lateral carinæ rounded and indistinct on metazona, absent on
										prozona. Tegmina broader than in saxatile, the dilation at
										basal third of costal margin more evident. Hind femora reaching tip of abdomen,
										male, 3 to 4 mm. shorter than abdomen, female. Length of body, ♂, 23, ♀, 33; of
										tegmina, ♂, 23, ♀, 29; of hind femora, ♂, 14, ♀, 15.5 mm.
								


								

								Jarman Gap, Va., Aug. 1 (Fox). This locust was, strangely to
									say, placed as a variety of saxatile by Morse, but in color, in
									structure of facial costa, and especially in form and height of median carina of
									pronotum, it is very distinct. Aside from the structure of the median pronotal
									carina it is much closer to bolli than to saxatile, not only in form and size, but also in color and general facies.
									Moreover, it is not a saxicolous species, restricted to bare rock surfaces, as is
										saxatile, but has the same haunts as bolli,
									as is shown by the notes of both Morse and Fox. The former (1904, 36) states that
									at the typical locality, Wytheville, Va., he "found it plentiful locally on a
									thinly grassed, gravelly hill-slope, accompanied by its congener, bolli, and exactly matching in coloration the purplish-red iron-bearing
									fragments of rock and soil on which it made its home." Fox (1917)
									says that: "At Jarman Gap it occurred in considerable numbers in a closely grazed
									grassy pasture on the summit of a ridge, while at Monterey it was common on the
									higher and steeper slopes, on cleared but untilled rocky ground close to the
									margin of the woods, frequenting bare, thinly grassed (Danthonia) or briery areas. In all places it was associated with S. bolli."
								If planum is a variety of anything it must be one of bolli, but the characters as above set forth in the key and
									description are deemed sufficient to raise it to specific rank. There is a
									possibility that it may have been originally a hybrid of bolli
									and saxatile, partaking somewhat of the characters of both.
									Aside from the localities mentioned it is recorded only from Lehigh Gap, Pa.
											(Rehn, 1902c), under the name of Trimerotropis citrina Scudd.

								
									122. SPHARAGEMON WYOMINGIANUM
										(Thomas), 1872, 462. Mottled Sand Locust.

									Smaller and more slender than our other eastern species. General color pale
										yellowish- or pinkish-brown, everywhere sprinkled and spotted with darker brown
										or fuscous; face ash-gray or yellowish, sprinkled with minute darker spots
										Antennæ fuscous at tip, paler toward base. Sides of pronotum with two indistinct
										dusky bands, the upper in the place of the lateral carinæ on prozona. Tegmina
										with three transverse bars of fuscous spots, the dorsal field often
										brownish-red. Wings similar to those of bolli, the median
										black band narrower toward the anal angle which it reaches. Hind femora pale
										brown or gray, with traces of four fuscous cross-bars; within sulphur-yellow,
										with three or four more or less complete black bars, the two basal ones often
										united. Hind tibiæ coral-red or pinkish, paler at base; spines with extreme tips
										black. Vertex, viewed from above, about as broad as eye, median carina usually
										evident but faint. Eyes of male larger and more prominent than usual. Pronotum
										with disk flat on metazona, somewhat sloping on prozona, slightly angulate in
										front, acute-angled behind; median carina high, compressed: arched  on both pro- and metazona, especially on latter;
										prozona in male with crest of carina distinctly sloping toward head; notch
										plainly oblique, very narrow, often nearly or wholly closed above by the
										overlapping ends of the carina (Fig. 90, e, f.) Tegmina
										surpassing femora by about one-third their own length. Legs and ventral portion
										of body usually very pubes cent, with long grayish hairs. Length of body, ♂,
										19--25, ♀, 24--30; of antennæ, ♂, 10--12.5, ♀, 10--13; of pronotum, ♂, 5--7, ♀,
										6.5--7.4; of tegmina, ♂, 19--26, ♀, 23--28; of hind femora, ♂, 11--14, ♀, 14--16
										mm. (Fig. 103.)
								
								
									
									Fig. 103. Male. (After Lugger.)
								

								This small, but handsome, locust is quite common in the sand covered areas of the
									northern third of Indiana. The earliest date for the adult is July 14th, in Fulton
									County, when it was found in numbers and had probably been mature for a week or
									longer. It occurs most abundantly along the thinly vegetated sandy tracts twenty
									rods or more back from the water margin of lakes, in old sandy cultivated fields
									and along railways and roadsides. In such localities it is often found in company
									with Psinidia fenestralis and less frequently with S. bolli. It seldom leaps when disturbed, but uses the wings to propel
									itself in a flight of about 30 yards; the males making a faint crackling noise as
									they clear themselves from the earth, while the females are noiseless. In a corn
									field near Lake Maxinkuckee, I once found wyomingianum very
									common on August 17th, over about two acres of the most sandy portion. Resting on
									the soil between the rows, they were very difficult of detection, and eight times
									out of ten were not seen until flushed, unless they had previously been "marked
									down" as they alighted. A few were also taken from the sandy margin of the lake,
									but careful search over a wide extent of territory failed to reveal them
									elsewhere. It will probably be found in the vicinity of most of the lakes of the
									State.
								This locust, as above defined, I consider sufficiently distinct to retain as a
									valid species under the name given it by Thomas. It was so retained by
										Scudder (1900) though made a variety of collare
									by Saussure and Morse and a synonym of collare by Kirby. The two
									forms overlap in distribution and perhaps merge where so overlapping. The
									retaining of wyomingianum as distinct is therefore more or less
									arbitrary and a matter of individual opinion  The
									eastern form described by Morse (1894b, 226) as S.
										æquale scudderi and afterward (1895a, 297) changed to S.
										collare scudderi I regard, however, as an absolute synonym of wyomingianum. In none of his papers has Morse given any fixed characters
									separating the two forms, and in his Key to New England Oedipodinæ (1897, 35) he
									does not recognize wyomingianumt as inhabiting New England,
									though Walden (1911) records it from a number of localities in
									Connecticut. The comparative distinctions given by Morse of greater size of scudderi and different fasciation of inner face of hind femora
									will not hold. Specimens of undoubted wyomingianum at hand from
									northern Indiana and Illinois and Gainesville, Fla., exceed in size any
									measurement given by Morse for scudderi, and R. & H.
										(1916, 187) show that the same is true of specimens from Virginia and
									Georgia. The black bars on inside of hind femora of wyomringianum vary from two to four, being sometimes connected and often
									not, so that their value as a distinctive character is nil.
								The known distribution of wyomingianum, as here recognized, is
									a wide one, extending from Maine and southern Ontario west to Minnesota, Wyoming,
									Utah and Colorado, and south and southwest to North Carolina, Georgia and northern
									Florida, where it has been recorded only from Fernandina, Gainesville and Live
									Oak. In Oklahoma and Texas it appears to be replaced by S.
										cristatum Scudd., distinguished mainly by its higher median carina, which
									will probably prove to be only a race or variety of wyomingianum. The latter is said by Bruner to inhabit the high prairies of
									Nebraska.
								Of the occurrence of wyomningianum in Minnesota Somes
										(1914, 57) says: "We have, as yet, found this species only in the
									southeastern part of the State, usually on the sandy margins of the Mississippi
									and its tributaries. Upon the almost clear sand which it frequents, its pale color
									and faintly marked pattern blend beautifully with the lights and shadows,
									rendering it almost invisible until it moves. Its flight is swift and strong,
									though not usually prolonged, and it rises with almost the swiftness of a Cicindela."
								The S. oculatum
									Morse (1894b, 232) is a synonym and the New England records of S. æquale Say by Harris and Scudder are also to be referred to wyomingianum.
							

							
								VIII. SCIRTETICA
									Saussure, 1884, 135. (Gr., "to leap" + "grasshopper.")

								Small slender bodied, moderately compressed species, having the disk of vertex
									rather narrow, elongate-oval, its sides low, 
									converging but not meeting either before or behind, the hind border therefore
									sub-obsolete; median carina evident but faint; foveolæ short, broadly triangular;
									eyes of moderate size, strongly convex; frontal costa narrow, sulcate throughout,
									male, below the antennæ, female, sides parallel, feebly converging at junction
									with vertex; antennæ filiform, one-half or more longer than head and pronotum
									together, male, one-fourth, female; prozona rather strongly constricted, its front
									margin truncate; metazona wide, flat, nearly smooth, its hind margin strongly
									obtuse-angled; median carina very low, cut in front of middle by the principal
									sulcus (Fig. 96, d); prozonal portion slightly the higher,
									sinuate, rarely feebly cut by the first transverse sulcus; lateral lobes deeper
									than long, front margin vertical, hind one nearly so, lower one as in Dissosteira; tegmina and wings narrow, the latter colored as shown in Fig
									104; hind femora slender, slightly surpassing tip of abdomen, male, reaching tip
									or a little shorter, female; hind tibiæ in great part red; valves of ovipositor
									slender, but feebly exserted. One species and a geographic race occur in the
									Eastern States.

								
									KEY TO EASTERN FORMS OF SCIRTETICA.

									a. Basal third or more of wings pale sulphur-yellow; hind tibiæ with
										both pale and fuscous rings near base usually well defined. 123. MARMORATA.
									aa. Basal third or more of wings orange or chrome-yellow; hind tibiæ
										without distinct fuscous ring behind the pale one, the latter poorly defined.
											123a. PICTA.
								
								
									Fig. 104. Tegmen and wing of male of S. marmorata. (After R.
										& H.)
								

								
									123. SCIRTETICA MARMORATA
										>(Harris), 1841, 145. Northern Marbled Locust.

									Color exceedingly variable, usually ash-gray, more or less mottled and
										barred with brown and fuscous; sometimes bright reddish-brown or the hue of
										hematite. Face usually gray with dark spots; occiput brown with gray spots;
										antennæ dull yellow at base, apical third darker. Pronotum grayish-yellow with a
										black bar behind eye and another below, or blackish-fuscous with pale blotches;
										sometimes reddish-brown with lower sides only pale; often with a broad x-shaped
										dull yellow mark on disk. Tegmina usually brown or blackish, with two or three
										large subquadrate pale spots on apical two-thirds of costal field, the basal one
										the longer; often grayish, thickly mottled with fuscous dots and blotches. Front
										and middle femora gray, annulate with fuscous; hind femora dull yellow with two
										or three curved fuscous bars on outer face; within yellow with three black bars.
										Hind tibiæ with pale ring at base, followed by dark one of equal width, apical
										half or more coral-red. Under surface dull yellow. Structural characters as
										above given. Length of body, ♂, 15--19, ♀, 22--25; of antennæ, ♂, 10.5--12.5, ♀,
										9.5--10.5; of  tegmina, ♂, 17--20, ♀, 21--22.5; of
										hind femora, ♂, 9.3--10.7, ♀, 10.5--12.5 mm.
								

								Provinceton, Mass.; North Haven, Conn. (Morse) ; Gravenhurst
									and Severn River, Ont. (Walker). A handsome mottled species of
									limited distribution, recorded definitely only along or within a few miles of the
									coast in Massachusetts, Connecticut and New Jersey, and from several points in
									Ontario and Michigan.
								Harris (1862, 179) calls it: "One of our prettiest species found in
									the open places contiguous to or within pitch-pine woods, flying over the scanty
									grass and reindeer moss which grow in these situations. It appears in the perfect
									state from the middle of July to the middle of October." Morse (1897,
										89) says: "Like the species of Spharagemon it is a
									wide-awake and rather shy locust, best secured by marking down and approaching
									cautiously, capturing it with a swift sweep of the net as soon as within striking
									distance. Its stridulation and flight are very similar to those of S.
										bolli."
								At Douglas Lake, Mich., Vestal (1914, 107) found it rather numerous
									in July and August in an open forest among the undergrowth of bracken fern and
									blueberry, and states: "It appears to be associated with lichen surfaces in rather
									open situations, somewhat after the manner of Trimerotropis
										saxatile McN., the markings giving it much of the general appearance of the
									lichens upon which it rests."

								
									123a. SCIRTETICA MARMORATA PICTA
										(Scudder), 1877b, 31. Southern Marbled Locust.

									Differs from marmorata by the characters given in key and
										by having the wings broader, their greatest width contained 1.5 to 1.7 times in
										greatest length, instead of 1.8 to 1.9 times as in marmorata;
										fuscous wing-band broader, usually as broad as the width of the yellow disk and
										continued around nearly to anal angle. Disk of pronotum never with an x-shaped
										pale mark. Tegmina usually darker, the pale spots smaller, more numerous and
										more generally distributed, the dark cross-bars between the pale ones not as
										well defined. Median carina of pronotum lower, especially so in female, the
										prozonal portion less sinuous and more evenly compressed, the disk of prozona
										less constricted. Length of body, ♂, 20--22, ♀, 25--27; of antennæ, ♂, 10.5, ♀,
										11; of tegmina, ♂, 23--24, ♀, 25--26; of hind femora, ♂, 10.5--11, ♀, 11.5--12.5
										mm. (Fig. 105.)
								

								This is a common sand-frequenting species in Florida, and has been taken by me at
									all collecting stations above Ft. Myers and Miami, and by others from numerous
									localities both inland and near the coast throughout the State. About Dunedin it
									occurs in both nymph and adult stages during the entire winter, frequenting bare
									sandy places in open woods, sandy paths and roadways,  and the sparsely clothed sandy stretches just back of the beach on the Gulf
									side of Hog Island. The specimens taken at the latter place were much paler than
									those from the mainland and were at first thought to be Trimerotropis
										maritima (Harris).

								
									Fig. 105. Tegmen and wing of male of S. m. picta. X 1.5.
										(After R. & H.)
								

								Morse (1904, 37) first suggested the possibility of picta being a southern race of marmorata, an opinion
									accepted by R. & H. (1912, 254) after the comparison of numerous
									specimens from North Carolina showing intergrading characters. The known range of
										S. m. picta extends from Southern Pines, N. Car., west to
									Augusta, Ga., and south and southwest throughout peninsular Florida and to
									Gulfport, Miss. Throughout this range it is found usually in small colonies, in
									sandy spots of open woods, often in company with Psinidia
										fenestralis (Serv.), being more abundant immediately along the seacoast
									than farther inland. Fresh specimens easily rank among the most handsome of our
									southern locusts. I first became acquainted with picta at
									Ormond, Fla., in March, 1899, and a field note regarding its habits (1902, 84) is
									as follows: "In an old orange orchard I found the male of the parti-colored sand
									locust, Scirtetica picta (Scudd.), more abundant than at any
									time before. He has the most prolonged stridulation of any locust known to me. He
									zig-zags in his flight almost at right angles, sometimes staying in the air for
									half a minute, flying all about an acre or more, and finally alighting on the sand
									within a yard of where he arose. All the time he is up he sounds his musical organ
									with every stroke of his wings, making a loud z-rr-zrr-zrr, like
									the subdued note of the harvest fly, Cicada pruinosa L., or the
									prolonged and angry buzz of a big bumble-bee. This locust has so far been recorded
									only from Georgia and Florida, though it will doubtless be found farther north in
									sandy fields close to the coast."
							

							
								Tribe II. TRIMEROTROPI.

								The members of this tribe of Oedipodinæ are generally smaller and much less bulky
									than those of the preceding genera. All agree in having the median carina of
									pronotum (except in Mestobregma) very low, nearly straight, cut
									feebly but distinctly on prozona by the first transverse sulcus, again at or
									slightly in front of middle, and more deeply by the principal sulcus (Fig. 106,
										c). The disk of prozona is often more or less strongly
									constricted while that  of metazona is flat and
									usually much less rugose than among the members of Tribe I. Our species are all
									ammophilous or saxicolous in habitat, dwelling along the sandy beaches of sea or
									lake, in old fields or along roadsides in extensive sandy areas, or on rocky
									ledges in densely wooded districts. None of them inhabit the open pasture lands
									and meadows as do the Arphias, Spharagemons and other members of
									the tribe Hippisci. Four genera represent the tribe in the
									Eastern States.

								
									Fig. 106. a, Wing of male of Hippiscus
											apiculatus; b, same of Circotettix verruculatus; c,
										pronotum of Trimerotropis maritima. (After Morse.)
								

								
									KEY TO EASTERN GENERA OF TRIMEROTROPI.

									a. Pronotum strongly constricted, its median carina subcristate, cut by
										the principal sulcus at or near the middle, the metazona but slightly longer
										than prozona; disk of vertex between the eyes as broad or broader than long;
										antennæ strongly flattened basally, those of male as long as or longer than hind
										femora; lower hind angle of lateral lobes not broadly rounded; smaller, females
										not over 25 mm. in length.
									b. Basal third of prozona not scutellate; occiput without tubercles;
										foveolæ small, shallow, subcircular; hind tibiæ dull greenish-white with a dusky
										ring at basal third, the knee and apex fuscous. I. PSINIDIA, p. 288
									bb. Basal third of prozona between the notches scutellate, i. e.,
										forming an ellipitical plate or disk with raised edges; occiput with a number of
										small tubercles; foveolæ (in our species) large. distinct, triangular; hind
										tibiæ pale blue with a whitish ring near base. II. MESTOBREGMA, p. 290
									aa. Pronotum much less constricted at middle, its median carina low, cut
										by the principal sulcus in front of middle, the metazona distinctly longer than
										prozona; disk of vertex between the eyes longer than broad; antennæ filiform,
										always shorter than hind femora; lower hind angle of lateral lobes broadly
										rounded; larger, the female 27 or more mm. in length.
									c. Hind tibiæ not fuscous near base and tip; general color light brown
										or buff, or pale gray; radiate veins of anal field of wings not enlarged. III. TRIMEROTROPIS, p. 292
									cc. Hind tibiæ fuscous toward base and at tip; general color dark gray
										or black; radiate veins of anal field of wings distinctly swollen. IV. CIRCOTETTIX, p. 299.
								
							


							

							
								I. PSINIDIA
									Stål, 1873, 117.

								Small, slender, compressed species, having the occiput much elevated; vertex with
									disk short, broad behind, strongly concave, its sides sharp, elevated, strongly
									converging and declivent; frontal costa sulcate throughout, the upper half very
									narrow, lower one feebly expanding; pronotum strongly constricted at middle, hind
									margin acute-angled; median carina sharp, straight and of equal height throughout,
									cut by two notches in front of middle; lateral carinæ rather distinct on metazona,
									ill defined on prozona; lateral lobes of pronotum deeper than long, front margin
									subvertical, hind one slightly concave, lower one curved, its front half
									ascending; tegmina narrow, exceeding the abdomen by about one-fourth their length,
									their basal half densely coriaceous, many of the cells in front half of middle
									third, two to four times as long as wide; hind femora reaching tip of abdomen,
									female, slightly exceeding it, male; valves of ovipositor slender, distinctly
									exserted, their tips acute, curved. One species of wide range occurs in the
									Eastern States and Canada.

								
									124. PSINIDIA FENESTRALIS
										(Serville), 1838, 726. Long-horned Locust.

									General color varying widely, according to environment, from pale
										clay-yellow to bright reddish-brown or even blackish. Face yellowish-brown,
										cheeks grayish, occiput and disk of pronotum darker; a narrow yellowish stripe
										extends back from eye onto disk of pronotum, the sides of latter with a fuscous
										bar near middle. Tegmina dull clay-yellow or reddish-brown, the lower half of
										sides with numerous small alternating light and dark spots; upper half
										unspotted. Wings with basal third usually orange or vermilion red, often yellow;
										middle third with a broad curved black band which reaches nearly to anal angle,
										front margin with a dusky bar reaching nearly to base; apical third pellucid.
										Hind femora reddish-brown, with three ill-defined dark, oblique bars on upper
										outer face; inner face with alternating bands of black and yellow. Hind tibiæ
										greenish-yellow with a dark ring at each end, and a broad fuscous one just above
										the middle, the apical halves of spines black. Length of body, ♂, 15--18, ♀,
										19--25; of antennæ, ♂, 10.7--12.3, ♀, 10--12; of pronotum, ♂, 4.5, ♀, 5.5; of
										tegmina, ♂, 16--19, ♀, 18--25; of hind femora, ♂, 9--11.5, ♀, 11--12.5 mm. (Fig.
										107.)
								
								
									Fig. 107. Male. X 1.5. (After Lugger.)
								

								In Indiana the long-horned locust has as yet been noted only in Lake, Porter and
									Laporte counties, in the sandy area bordering  Lake
									Michigan. It is most common along the beach within one-half mile of the lake, in
									company with Trimerotropis maritima (Harris) and Spharagemon wyomingianum (Thos.), though a few specimens were taken on
									sandy ridges five miles from the lake shore. It has a quick, short flight, and
									always chooses a bare, sandy spot on which to alight. Unless it is carefully
									marked down it is then very difficult to distinguish, since its colors harmonize
									so perfectly with its surroundings. By keeping an eye on it and stealthily
									approaching it can readily be taken by throwing the net quickly over it just as it
									is in the act of rising. The male makes a slight rattling sound as it flies, but
									the movement of the female is noiseless. The majority of the specimens taken had
									the inner wings a bright red at base, though variations in color, from light
									yellow to deep red, were noted. It probably occurs in sandy areas throughout the
									State.
								In Florida P. fenestralis has been taken by me at Ormond,
									Sanford, Little River, Ft. Myers, Sarasota and Dunedin and is recorded from
									numerous localities by other collectors. About Dunedin it occurs in small numbers
									in both nymph and adult stages throughout the winter, frequenting sandy roadsides,
									old fields and orange orchards, often in company with S. m. picta, C.
										v. australior and other ammophilous species.
								The known range of P. fenestralis extends from Maine to
									Minnesota and northwestern Nebraska, south and southwest to southern Florida,
									Mississippi and northern Texas. It is not known from the southern keys of Florida,
									but Rehn (1909, 204) records it from Guanabacoa and Havana, Cuba.
									Though Saussure (1884, 164) says it occurs "in Canada extensa," and
										Scudder (1900) gives its range as "U. S. and Canada east of
									Mississippi River," it is not recorded from that country in any of Walker's papers
									nor is it definitely recorded from Ohio or Michigan, though it should occur in
									both states.
								Of its occurrence in New England Morse (1897, 112) says: "This is a
									common and widely distributed species, found nearly everywhere on sandy spots in
									southern New England, and probably throughout the entire district. On the seashore
									it is sometimes associated with T. maritima, (Harr.). It is
									usually plentiful where it occurs, though often very local in consequence of its
									habitat. When disturbed it flies but a short distance, often only a few feet, the
									male producing a very slight, scarcely noticeable, crepitation." Vestal
										(1913) states that in "the bunch grass of the sand prairies of Illinois
									no species of the Oedipodinæ but Spharagemon outnumbers it," but
									in Minnesota Somes (1914)
									 has taken it only along the Mississippi in the
									southeastern part. He adds: "The flight of fenestralis differs
									from that of Trimerotropis in being low and direct, but is not
									as swift as in Mestobregma. The male has a faint aerial
									stridulation. The coloration of this insect is such that when on its normal
									habitat of almost clear sand with scattered vegetation and a background of broken
									lights and shadows, its detection is almost impossible. We have often been unable
									to see them, even when within a few inches, except by the movements or by the
									shadows they cast."
							

							
								II. MESTOBREGMA
									Scudder, 1876a, 264. (Gr., "full" + "front.")

								Species in general facies resembling Psinidia, but having the
									occiput less elevated, more or less tuberculate, disk of vertex much as in Psinidia, but more shallow, broader in female, its sides more
									sinuous and strongly declivent to unite with those of frontal costa; foveolæ in
									our eastern species, large, prominent, triangular; frontal costa narrow, deeply
									sulcate throughout, slightly constricted above the ocellus; antennæ about as long
									as hind femora, the basal joints so depressed as to form one sharp edge; pronotum
									strongly constricted at middle, hind margin acute-angled, male, right-angled,
									female; median carina sharp, slightly higher on prozona, notched twice in front of
									middle, the interval between the notches scutellate, its carina arched; lateral
									carinæ rounded, visible only on metazona, represented on prozona by numerous
									tubercles; lateral lobes much as in Psinidia; tegmina narrow,
									the apical third membranous and semi-transparent; hind femora slender, reaching
									tip of abdomen, female, much surpassing it, male; valves of ovipositor as in Psinidia.
								Kirby (1910, 247) accredits to Mestobregma
										(Trachyrachys44) 17
									species, two from Mexico, the others from the western United States. Some of these
									are doubtless synonyms, and but one crosses the Mississippi into the western
									portion of our territory.

								
									125. MESTOBREGMA THOMASI
										Caudell, 1904f, 125. Ash-brown Locust.

									Small, slender, compressed, the male moderately the smaller. General color
										ash-gray or yellowish-brown, spotted with fuscous. Face ash-gray, with minute
										dark spots; occiput and disk of pronotum darker, often with a yellowish x-shaped
										mark extending back from eye along the sides of disk; lateral lobes of pronotum
										with traces of alternate lengthwise bars of pale and fuscous, the former the
										narrower. Tegmina yellowish-brown or grayish, often darker in male, the costal
										area with two squarish dark spots separated by an oblong whitish one, apical
										third transparent, often with a few small dark spots along the costal margin.
										Wings with basal third greenish- or lemon-yellow, a narrow curved faint fuscous
										band on middle
								

								44Bruner
										(1905) wrongfully replaced Mestobregma by Trachyrachys Scudd. In this, he was followed by Kirby, although R.
										& H. (1906, 380) had shown that Bruner's replacement was
									incorrect.



								

								
									third; apical third smoky-transparent, with a few fuscous dots near tip.
										Outer face of hind femora ash-gray or dull yellow with three more or less
										distinct black spots on upper margin; inner face black with two narrow yellow
										cross-bars. Hind tibiæ pale blue, sometimes dusky, with a whitish ring near
										base, the spines black except at extreme base. Lower side of body dull yellow.
										Length of body, ♂, 17--19, ♀, 24--26; of antennæ, ♂, 11--12, ♀, 12--13; of
										pronotum, ♂, 4.5, ♀, 6; of tegmina, ♂, 18--20, ♀, 23--25; of hind femora, ♂,
										11--12, ♀, 13--15 mm. (Fig. 108.)
								

								This locust, the Mestobregma cinctum (Thos.) of my former work
									(1903, 279) inhabits, as far as known, only the southern third of Indiana, where
									it frequents old abandoned fields, roadsides and bare rocky slopes, especially
									those on high wooded hills near streams. On the hills about Wyandotte Cave, and
									the Knobs back of New Albany, it is especially common. The earliest date on which
									it has been taken was July 7, when it was found in numbers, and had doubtless been
									mature for some time. On September 24, 1918, it was found to be quite common on a
									slope leading up to a hemlock covered bluff in Owen County. This slope was nearly
									bare and thickly covered with small weathered fragments of grayish-brown
									sandstone. Among these the locust was resting, and visible only when it moved.
									When first flushed they flew only a few feet, the males making a low whirring
									noise as they rose from the ground. When frightened by attempts at capture with
									the net they would often make a long flight into the branches of nearby trees.
									This was the most northern point at which it has been noted in Indiana.
								
									Fig. 108. Male. X 1.3. (After Lugger.)
								
								The general range of M. thomasi is given by Scudder
										(1900) as "Upper Mississippi Valley and Colorado." Thomas and Hart have
									recorded it from Illinois, the latter noting it as common on the dunes near Havana
									and Moline, and occurring on dry barren ground throughout southern Illinois.
										Garman (1894) records it from Bowling Green and Glasgow Junction,
									Ky. East of the Mississippi it is known also from central and southern Ohio,
									Georgia, Tennessee, and Agricultural College, Miss., while west of that stream it
									ranges north and west to Minnesota and Colorado and southwest to Kansas, Arkansas,
									Oklahoma and northern Texas. Morse (1904, 36) states that its hues
									"vary, according to its environment, from nearly black to ashen or dust color. It
									flies freely, but weakly, on a warm day, and is easily captured."
								M. thomasi is the Mestobregma cincta Thos. of most
									authors; 
									Caudell (1904f) having shown that both Trimerotropis
										cincta Thos. and M. cincta Thos. were based on the single
									description of Oedipoda cincta
									Thos. (1870, 80), the name cincta rightfully
									belonging to the former.
							

							
								III. TRIMEROTROPIS
									Stål, 1873, 118. (Gr., "three" + "part" + "keel.")

								Medium or rather large sized species, having the head slightly exceeding the
									prozona in width, but always narrower than metazona, which is considerably
									expanded; vertex with disk longer than broad, its sides distinct, often sinuous,
									gradually converging, and continuous with those of frontal costa; median carina,
									if present, faint; foveolæ small, distinct, triangular; frontal costa slightly
									narrower just below ocellus and at point of union with vertex, in our species with
									at least the lower two-thirds strongly sulcate; antennæ filiform, longer than head
									and pronotum, male; pronotum with disk nearly flat, either smooth or with minute
									tubercles on metazona; hind margin either acute- right- or obtuse-angled; median
									carina low, especially on metazona, cut by two notches, the hindmost of which is
									much in advance of the middle (Fig. 106, c); lateral carinæ
									rounded, indistinct; lateral lobes of pronotum with front and hind margins nearly
									vertical, lower margin with its front half oblique, ascending, the posterior half
									arcuate, the angle well rounded; tegmina much exceeding the abdomen in both sexes;
									hind femora of average width, reaching or exceeding the tip of abdomen in both
									sexes; valves of ovipositor slender, strongly exserted, their tips curved,
									pointed.
								McNeill, in his monograph of this genus (1901), described and gave keys to 54
									nominal species. Of these 49 were from the United States, 16 of which are confined
									to California, while but three occur east of the Mississippi River. One species
									and a variety have been since described from our territory. Kirby (1910,
										253, 255) divides the genus into two, Trimerotropis and
										Pseudotrimerotropis, the latter a subgeneric name proposed by
										Rehn (1901, 334) to replace McNeill's subgenus Trimerotropis (1901, 399), which was wrongly used. To Trimerotropis, with maritima as the type, Kirby
									accredits 17 species, and to Pseudotrimerotropis with cincta Thos. as the type, 54 species. Caudell has shown (1911,
									164) that Rehn's name is, as he proposed it, of subgeneric rank only.

								
									KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF TRIMEROTROPIS.

									a. Tegmina plain grayish-buff or brownish-yellow, not or faintly barred
										with fuscous; disk of prozona behind the first notch flat or nearly so; inner
										face of knees of hind femora pale.


									

									b. Hind tibiæ yellow or greenish-yellow, rarely with a pinkish tinge;
										frontal costa distinctly sulcate at point of union with vertex; head, lateral
										lobes of pronotum and hind femora rarely suffused with white. 126. MARITIMA.
									bb. Hind tibiæ with apical two-thirds scarlet, the basal third mostly
										white; frontal costa but feebly sulcate at point of union with vertex; head,
										lateral lobes and outer face of hind femora usually strongly suffused with hoary
										white. 126a. ACTA.
									aa. Tegmina with two or three well defined, almost solid fuscous
										crossbars, these sometimes faint on account of the slight contrast between them
										and the ground color; disk of prozona behind the first notch more or less convex
										and subtectiform; inner face of knees of hind femora fuscous.
									c. Hind tibiæ in great part red; lower sulcus of hind femora yellow with
										two dark bands. 127. CITRINA.
									cc. Hind tibiæ greenish-yellow tinged with fuscous; lower sulcus of hind
										tibiæ black with one preapical pale band.
									d. Metazona almost smooth; fuscous cross-bars of tegmina and hind femora
										very distinct; basal third and dorsal area of tegmina with numerous fuscous
										spots; saxicolous in habits. 128. SAXATILIS.
									dd. Metazona densely granulate-punctate; fuscous cross-bars usually
										poorly developed, often subobsolete; dorsal area of tegmina almost immaculate;
										ammophilous in habits. 129. HURONIANA.
								

								
									126. TRIMEROTROPIS MARITIMA
										(Harris), 1841, 143. Seaside Locust.

									Rather large, compressed, the male distinctly the smaller. General color
										light to dark gray, or pale reddish-brown, mottled with brown or fuscous; sides
										of head, lower parts of thorax, abdomen and front legs, often in part white.
										Tegmina as in key, the fuscous spots usually scattered along the sides, being
										most abundant on the basal third. Wings with disk pale yellow, the greatest
										width of curved black band one-fifth to one-sixth the length of wing, the apical
										fourth or more transparent. Inner face of hind femora pale yellow with three
										black bands; lower sulcus pale with a black bar at apical third; outer face
										rarely with spots or bands of fuscous. Frontal costa sulcate throughout its
										length. Antennæ almost as long as hind femora, male, one-fourth shorter, female.
										Pronotum with median carina low throughout; metazona about twice as long as
										prozona, its disk flat, with a number of scattered minute rounded tubercles,
										hind margin obtusely angulate. Wings twice as long as wide. Length of body, ♂,
										19--25, ♀, 26--35; of antennæ, ♂ 11--13, ♀, 11.5--14; of pronotum, ♂, 5, 
										
											Fig. 109. Male. (After Lugger.)
										
										 ♀, 6; of tegmina, ♂, 20--27, ♀, 27--35; of hind
										femora, ♂, 11.5--14, ♀, 14--17 mm. (Fig. 109.)
								

								This species has been taken in Indiana only along the south shore of Lake
									Michigan, where it is common, and about lakes in Steuben Co., in the northeastern
									corner of the State. It flies rapidly and noiselessly for long distances and,
									unless carefully marked down, is very difficult to detect. The darker specimens
									are always found at some distance from the lake, where there is a scattering
									vegetation; the light colored ones on the pure sand of the immediate shore. It has
									been seen nowhere more than a half mile back from the water margin, and then only
									on the bare crests of the highest sand ridges and dunes. The earliest date on
									which mature specimens have been taken was July 25th, and the latest October 15th,
									though they are doubtless to be found both before and after those dates. It
									probably occurs about the margins of the larger lakes in the northern third of the
									State.
								Walker (1898, 262) has separated the form found inland along the
									Great Lakes under the racial name interior, stating that they
									differ in the broader fuscous band of wings, more distinct fuscous markings and
									smaller size. All of these differences are comparative only, the series at hand
									from both sea and lake shores containing examples which could be easily and
									properly referred to either form. I, therefore, regard his name as wholly
									unnecessary.
								The range of maritima is given by McNeill as "Atlantic States
									from Virginia northward and along the shores of the Great Lakes west to Illinois."
									In Michigan it is reported by Hubbell from Huron and Chippewa counties. In
									southern Ontario it is, says Walker (loc. cit.), found plentifully
									along the beaches of the Great Lakes and their islands, "where it flies about the
									coarse grasses which grow at a short distance from the water's edge." Westward it
									extends to Minnesota where, says Somes (1914, 60), it "occurs in some
									abundance on the sandy flats of the Mississippi and other streams in the
									southeastern part of the State. There it delights in the open sunshine, often
									walking aimlessly about upon the sand for long periods without any attempt at
									feeding, and apparently merely enjoying the warmth. When approached too closely it
									crouches close to the sand prepared for flight, but seemingly aware of its
									protecting hues and not arising until some unusual or rapid movement alarms it.
									The flight is very strong and it can, and does at times, cover unusual distances
									for an Oedipod."
								Southward T. maritima is now known along the coast as far as
									Atlantic Beach, Fla. (R. & H., 1916, 190) ; some of the specimens
										 from Virginia and North Carolina having the hind
									tibiæ suffused with reddish or pinkish, thereby approaching the southern Florida
									form. Davis (1914, 195) records a Fire Island, N. Y., specimen with
									pink tibiæ. Hart (1907, 261) has mentioned the finding of specimens
									at Waukegan, Ill., with well marked orange tibiæ.

								
									126a. TRIMEROTROPIS MARITIMA ACTA
										Hebard, 1915b, 402. Southern Seaside Locust.

									More slender and somewhat smaller than typical maritima
										from which it differs mainly by the characters given in key. General color more
										buffy; anal fields of tegmina usually immaculate, rarely speckled with darker;
										discoidal and marginal fields usually much suffused or speckled with darker
										buff, these markings often concentrated to form two vague darker bands; other
										markings as in key. Disk of pronotum slightly more compressed and narrowed in
										front of the principal sulcus; hind margin less produced, the angle being
										normally rectangular. Measurements and variations in size all falling within the
										extremes as given for maritima.
								

								Little River, Fla., March 17--19 (W. S. B.) ; Palm Beach,
									Fla., May 27--June 13. (Dury). There is no doubt but that acta is only a southern form of maritima,
									replacing the latter along the South Atlantic coast and bearing to it the same
									relation, be it color variety, race or what not, that S. picta
									does to S. marmorata. Davis has numerous specimens taken at
									Riverhead, N. J., and near Ft. Monroe, Va., that are intermediate in coloration
									between maritima and acta. Of nine Ft. Monroe
									specimens, five have the hind tibiæ in great part pink, while in the others they
									are pale orange yellow. The secondary genital organs of male are the same in both
									forms.
								T. m. acta is recorded by Hebard as being "widely distributed
									but few in numbers everywhere along the middle and upper ocean beaches at Miami,
									Fla. Individuals were, without exception, encountered on loose sand, either along
									the landward border of the middle beach, or less often immediately back of this in
									areas of high seaside oats, Uniola paniculata L. The flight much
									resembles that of maritima and is more direct than that of citrina." It is also known from Capron and Palm Beach, on the east
									coast, and from several islands in and about Charlotte Harbor on the west coast of
									Florida.

								
									127. TRIMEROTROPIS CITRINA
										Scudder, 1876a, 265. Citrus-winged Locust.

									Form of T. maritima, the female somewhat larger. General
										color ash-gray or yellowish-brown, sprinkled more or less with fuscous. Face
										usually light gray. Tegmina yellowish-brown, the dark spots aggregated into
										three dark cross-bars, often indistinct in female, usually plainly visible in
										male. Wings pale lemon-yellow at base, the fuscous band broad, its width from
										one-fourth to one-fifth the length of wing; submarginal ray short, extending
										less than half way to base. Inner face of hind femora yellow with  three fuscous bands, outer face plain
										yellowish-brown or gray. Hind tibiæ pinkish-red, paler at base. Vertex slightly
										longer than broad, its median carina faint or wanting; foveolæ small,
										indistinct; frontal costa slightly narrowed and but feebly sulcate at point of
										union with vertex. Pronotum with median carina very low; disk flat, except on
										prozona, where the sides are moderately convex; metazona broad, its hind margin
										decidedly obtuse-angled, the tip rounded; surface finely granulate-punctate,
										with a few minute scattered tubercles. Wings one and three-fourths times as long
										as broad. Length of body, ♂, 20--23, ♀, 28--32; of antennæ, ♂, 11--12, ♀,
										10.5--12; of pronotum, ♂, 5, ♀, 6.5; of tegmina, ♂, 27--28, ♀, 31.5--35; of hind
										femora, ♂, 11--13, ♀, 15--16 mm.
								

								This species has been taken in Indiana only on a long sand and gravel bar along
									the north shore of the Ohio River, a half mile below Vevay, Switzerland County,
									where it was common on September 23. Its flight along this gravelly bank was much
									less prolonged than that of maritima on the more extensive sand
									beach of Lake Michigan. When approached it would rise straight upward a few feet,
									and then move lazily and without noise eight to 15 feet, and alight again, always
									on the bare sand or gravel. The gravel bar was at the foot of a terrace 30 feet or
									more in height and a quarter of a mile wide, the surface of which was cultivated.
									No trace of citrina was found on this area, though other locusts
									were abundant. It is a somewhat larger and more bulky insect than Indiana examples
									of T. maritima, the male being nearly as large as the female of
									the latter. In general appearance the two closely resemble one another and are apt
									to be confounded when they occur together.
								In Florida citrina has been taken by me only at Ormond and
									Dunedin, where a few specimens were found in December and March along sandy
									roadsides and in old fields. It has, however, been recorded from numerous
									localities between Jacksonville, Pensacola and Key West by other collectors, and
									doubtless occurs throughout the State, though scarce in the southern portion. The
									general range of the species is southern, extending from eastern Pennsylvania and
									Maryland, west and north to Manitoba and Vernon, B. C., Minnesota and Colorado,
									and south and southwest to Arkansas, Oklahoma, Texas and New Mexico. Morse
										(1907, 39) calls it: " A very widely distributed species, of common
									occurrence throughout the Southern States from the seashore to a considerable
									elevation, frequenting, in company with Dissosteira carolina,
									roadsides and other spots bare of vegetation. Its coloring varies greatly
									according to the tint of the soil of its habitat, from dull white, through shades
									of yellowish- and reddish-brown to a dull gray." In Virginia Fox
										(1917) found it "on the sandy  beaches of
									broad tidal estuaries, usually associated with Psinidia in areas
									characterized by the presence of the sand-bur, Cenchrus
										tribuloides L. Inland it appeared to be of frequent though somewhat local
									occurrence, inhabiting open sandy fields and foot-paths and appearing to avoid
									locations where there was any considerable cover of vegetation."

								
									128. TRIMEROTROPIS SAXATILIS
										McNeill, 1901, 440. Rock-loving Locust.

									Size medium, form relatively slender, strongly compressed, the males
										distinctly the smaller. Color extremely variable, usually gray, bluish-green or
										brown, strongly marked with fuscous. Occiput fuscous with gray markings; face
										gray, speckled with brown or fuscous dots; antennæ fuscous, the basal joint
										yellow. Pronotum with metazona and hind portion of lateral lobes usually dull
										yellow;. prozona and front part of lobes largely fuscous with pale spots.
										Tegmina gray, usually with three very distinct fuscous cross-bars; apical third
										hyaline, mottled with fuscous dots. Wings with basal third pale yellow, the
										curved fuscous band rather broad, its greater width one-fourth to one-fifth the
										length of wing, apex hyaline with a few small dark spots. Front and middle
										femora annulate with dull yellow and fuscous. Outer face of hind femora
										trifasciate with fuscous; inner face largely black with two yellow cross-bars.
										Disk of vertex distinctly longer than broad, median carina evident but faint,
										sides low, moderately converging; foveolæ distinct, triangular, large for the
										genus. Frontal costa deeply sulcate nearly throughout, less so at junction with
										vertex. Prozona about two-fifths the length of metazona, median carina very low;
										hind margin of metazona rectangular or nearly so. Wings less than twice as long
										as broad. Length of body, ♂, 18.5--22, ♀, 23--28; tegmina, ♂, 22--23, ♀, 25--27;
										of hind femora, ♂ and ♀, 11--13 mm.
								

								Union County, Ill., July 21. (McNeill). As its specific name indicates this is a
									saxicolous or rock-frequenting species, ranging from southern Illinois west to
									Arkansas and Oklahoma, and southeast and south to the mountains of North Carolina
									and Georgia. Of its occurrence in Illinois Hart (1906, 79) says:
									"Restricted to the larger sandstone ledges of the Ozark hills in southern
									Illinois, the insects closely imitating the lichen-covered rock surfaces on which
									they rest."
								Morse, who has traced its range more closely than anyone else, says (1907, 40) :
										
										"T. saxatilis has been taken only on rock surfaces,
											sometimes lichen-crusted, sometimes bare and sun-scorched, either wholly
											unprotected from sun and storm or amid a considerable growth of forest which
											has sprung up since the station was colonized by the locust. In color and
											markings it so closely resembles the background of its habitat as to be
											indistinguishable therefrom when at rest. It is a sluggish, unsuspicious
											species, flying but a short distance when disturbed, often with a distinct but
											relatively faint crepitation, and is easily captured. On July 8 adults of both
											sexes were numerous, on Sand Mountain, Ga., the males actively searching for
											and  attentive to the females, excitedly
											approaching them and fiddling with rapid vertical movements of the closed hind
											legs. Usually no sound was audible to me during this act of stridulation, but
											occasionally I could catch a distinct and rather pleasant 'seep' resembling a
											bird note at a distance rather than the note of an insect. The female made
											similar motions, but less often and less energetically. Active in direct
											sunshine, they became sluggish when clouds obscured the sun and then were very
											easy to approach, allowing the hand to come within two or three inches if it
											were advanced with caution."
									
								


								
									129. TRIMEROTROPIS HURONIANA
										E. M. Walker, 1902, 6. Lake Huron Locust.

									Size medium or rather small. General color ash-gray, varied with brown and
										white. Face pale ash-gray mottled with darker; occiput brownish-fuscous; a pale
										postocular stripe extending back on margins of pro- and metazona, sides of
										prozona with two whitish spots; antennæ grayish-brown, darker apically. Tegmina
										usually ash-gray or brownish with darker fuscous cross-bars, one at basal third,
										a more solid one at middle; apical third transparent, usually with scattered
										fuscous spots; the bars and spots often faint or wanting, the tegmina then with
										only an ill defined clouding of basal fourth. Wings with disk very pale yellow;
										width of fuscous median band one-sixth or slightly more the length of wing, the
										spur extending half way to base; apical portion hyaline, immaculate. Hind femora
										with outer face pale gray with a yellowish preapical band and faint basal and
										median oblique fuscous bars, these more distinct in male; inner face black with
										two pale bars. Hind tibiæ dull yellow the base sometimes paler. Vertex
										distinctly longer than broad, male, but feebly so, female, median carina low but
										distinct; sides moderately elevated, sinuous, converging gradually but not
										strongly to meet those of frontal costa; foveolæ small, triangular, well
										defined. Frontal costa rather wide, sulcate throughout, expanded at but feebly
										constricted just above and below the ocellus. Antennæ four-fifths, male,
										five-sevenths, female, the length of hind femora. Prozona about two-fifths the
										length of metazona, its median carina slightly the higher; metazona broad, its
										surface densely and finely rugose-punctate, the median carina very low; hind
										margin right-angled, male, obtuse-angled, female. Length of body, ♂, 19--21, ♀,
										26--28; of antennæ, ♂, 9.5--10.5, ♀, 9.5; of tegmina, ♂, 21--22, ♀, 26--27; of
										hind femora, ♂, 11, ♀, 13 mm.
								

								Southampton, Ontario, Aug. 21 (Walker). This species, says
										Walker (loc. cit.), seems to replace T. maritima
									on the northern part of the east coast of Lake Huron. In the vicinity of
									Southampton there is a limited extent of wide, sandy beach, north of which the
									shore is continuously rocky. On this beach huroniana is to be
									found under very similar but more boreal conditions to those under which maritima is found further south. In flight it is extremely alert
									and its stridulation is peculiar, being a very rapid but not loud crepitation,
									interrupted about thrice in a second, so that at a little distance it seems to be
									composed of separate notes. Usually three, sometimes four of these, are produced
									at a time."



								

								As pointed out by Walker, T. huroniana is closely related to
									both T. saxatilis McNeill and vinculata Scudd.
									The principal differences between it and saxatilis are given in
									the key. In vinculata the disk of prozona is strongly convex and
									tectiform, the front lobe of crest more elevated and much longer than the hind
									one, these characters easily separating it from both our eastern species.
							

							
								IV. CIRCOTETTIX
									Scudder, 1876a, 264. (Gr., "circle" + "locust.")

								Rather large, compressed species, closely related to Trimerotropis, the characters of vertex and frontal costa being nearly the
									same as there; antennæ shorter, little longer than head and pronotum together;
									disk of prozona feebly tectiform, its length two-thirds that of metazona, the
									latter wide, flat, with hind margin right-angled or nearly so; lateral carinæ
									faint and rounded on metazona, absent on prozona; tegmina rather broad, much
									surpassing the abdomen, with intercalary vein close to radial at tip, the axillary
									vein free. "Wings peculiar (Fig. 106, b), being falcate with
									more or less undulate margin; the falcation arising from the prolongation of the
									pre-anal area and the fullness of the middle of the anal area. The principal veins
									of the latter are supported on either side by spurious veins, running very close
									beside and parallel to them, to which the transverse veins are attached, while the
									spurious veins are themselves united to the principal nervures by other cross
									veins, forming a more or less irregular network on either side of the principal
									veins." (Scudder.) Hind femora short, slender, about reaching
									end of abdomen, male, falling short of it 3--5 mm., female; valves of ovipositor
									short, stout, feebly exserted. Other characters as given in key.
								Kirby (1910) accredits 13 species to the genus, all from the western
									United States, the range of our only eastern species being given as "British
									America."

								
									130. CIRCOTETTIX VERRUCULATUS
										(Wm. Kirby), 1837, 250. Cracker Locust.

									General color dark gray, often almost black. Lower part of face usually gray
										with fuscous dots; occiput and pronotum fuscous or very dark brown with faint
										paler mottlings. Tegmina dark brown or black, sometimes immaculate, more often
										with a pale cross-bar just in front of middle and another behind it; apical
										third subhyaline with paler mottlings. Wings with basal third or more
										transparent with a yellowish tinge, curved fuscous bar faint, narrow, widened
										behind, apical fourth hyaline, the nervules and extreme tip fuscous. Front and
										middle femora annulated, hind ones with outer face dull yellow crossed by two
										oblique fuscous bars; inner face black with two yellow bars. Hind tibiæ dull
										yellow, the knees and apex fuscous, the middle sometimes tinged with that hue.
										Structural  characters as above given. Length of
										body, ♂, 21--24, ♀, 26--30; of antennæ, ♂, 9--11.5, ♀, 10--11.5; of tegmina, ♂,
										21--26, ♀, 24--30; of hind femora, ♂, 11--12, ♀, 13--14 mm. (Fig. 110.)
								

								A species of northern distribution ranging from Newfoundland, Nova Scotia and New
									England, north and west to Hudson Bay, Vancouver, B. C., Great Bear Lake and
									Arctic America, and south and southwest to the northern borders of New Jersey and
									Pennsylvania. It is not known from Indiana, but is frequent throughout northern
									Michigan, northern and eastern Minnesota and northern and northwestern Nebraska,
									but is not recorded farther south than there west of the Mississippi. It has been
									recorded from Illinois by both Thomas and McNeill, but the latter (1901, 440)
									refers the record of Thomas to Trimerotropis saxatilis and it is
									probable that his own records were based on the same species.

								
									Fig. 110. Male. (After Lugger.)
								

								In New England Morse (1897, 113) says that: "Its favorite haunts are
									bare ledges on elevated land and low mountains. On these it delights to bask in
									the sunshine, crawling about over the lichen-covered and weather-beaten rocks with
									whose tints its coloring harmonizes, or to hover in the air above them, sharply
									stridulating. Its 'song' in flight is the loudest produced by any of our locusts,
									and consists of a series of separate notes, clicks or snaps, not a rattle, and is
									readily distinguished by this peculiar snapping quality. It is one of the wariest
									of our locusts, being especially shy and difficult to approach during the warmer
									part of the day, when it often flies away to a distance of several rods and
									circles about, returning to the place whence it started, or dances up and down in
									the air, snapping loudly. The female sometimes makes a soft flutter or shuffle of
									wings in flight, probably corresponding to the snapping of the male, and both
									sexes can fly silently at will. I have seen the male stridulate when at rest,
									also, by rubbing the hind thighs against the tegmina, producing a 'scritching'
									sound audible at a distance of three or four feet. The intercalary vein is
									toothed, in a low but continuous series, for its entire length in the male, and on
									the distal half or more in the female, in which the teeth are lower and barely
									perceptible."


								

								Piers (1918, 284) has written entertainingly of the habits of C. verruculatus as follows: 
										"When in flight it produces a loud, sharp snapping or cracking sound. klip, klip, klip, repeated usually about five or six times,
											which is familiar to every one on a hot summer day. From this sound it is
											usually called 'Cracker' or sometimes 'Snapper' by boys and others, it thus
											being the only species of locust which has been favored with a distinctive
											common-name in Nova Scotia. It also somtimes flies with a rustling or
											fluttering sound. When on the ground it is difficult to detect, as its color
											harmonizes well with that of its surroundings, but on the wing it at once
											proclaims itself by its note and the distribution of the yellow on its
											brightly colored wings. Its flight is often in a zig-zag course. It does not
											always wait to be flushed, but is in the habit of taking short flights over
											its location, cracking as it goes, in pure exuberance of spirits."
										"I must say I have not much fondness for such a dusty, dirty-looking
											frequenter of hot, dry highways and other parched and stony places in the full
											glare of the sun. He delights in such dusty and arid spots, as well as the
											oily-smelling ballast of breezeless railway cuttings; and the hotter and more
											sweltering the day, the better he is pleased, the more active he becomes, and
											the quicker, louder, sharper and more gleefully he cracks his wings, like a
											man snapping his fingers derisively at the world which disagrees with him.
											Only when he rises from earth, do we catch a glimpse of the hidden gold in his
											sombre make-up."
									
								

								Somes (1914, 62) says of the species in Minnesota: 
										"It is primarily an insect of dry or even dusty places and is somewhat
											saxicolous, loving rocky exposures. On the granite hills about Lake Vermillion
											it occurs in countless numbers and on a bright day the stridulation of the
											males in flight fills the air. The flight of this species is the strongest and
											longest of all our Oedipods, possibly excepting Trimerotropis, and is very indirect in its course, often completely
											circling about the observer and ending near the point from which it started.
											The arial stridulation of the males is a sharp crackling, very like that of
											the Arphias but much louder and more continuous. We once
											noted an interesting performance by three males. Out in the center of a
											railway switch yard, these three were grouped closely together, and so intent
											were they that we were able to approach within a few feet without alarming
											them. First one would raise both hind femora high up and with a quick jerky
											movement rub them vigorously against the sides of the tegmina; after a time he
											would pause and stand at attention while one of his mates took up the
											performance. To our ear no 'music' was audible save a faint grating noise, far
											from melodious. This peformance was repeated time after time and we do not
											know how long it might have been continued had they not been interrupted by a
											heavily loaded ore train. As to the object of such demonstration, we have no
											explanation to offer since there were no females within a rod or more.
										"In Tower and some of the other northern towns of Minnesota, this usually shy
											insect takes the place of Dissosteira in the streets and
											appears as thoroughly at home there as the 'Carolina loucst' in the southern
											cities. At Tower we have noted that while it is abundant on the streets during
											the warmer part of the day, it disappears by about five o'clock in the
											afternoon  and upon search we found it on weeds,
											posts, and other somewhat elevated places, apparently having retired for the
											night. It remained thus until rather late in the morning, not becoming active
											until nearly nine o'clock. While thus at rest, the insect is very sluggish and
											does not start readily, making it easy to take such as may be desired. In the
											habit of poising motionless in the air, this insect also resembles Dissosteira and may be seen at times suspending itself in the
											air, much more like a butterfly in appearance than a locust."
									
								
							
						

						
							Subfamily III. LOCUSTINÆ. (ACRIDINÆ.)
									THE SPINE-BREASTED LOCUSTS.

							
								
									"Onward they came, a dark continuous cloud
									Of congregated myriads numberless,
									The rushing of whose wings was as the sound
									Of a broad river headlong in its course
									Plunged from a mountain summit, or the roar
									Of a wild ocean in the autumn storm,
									Shattering its billows on a shore of rocks!"--Southey.
								
							

							The species of this subfamily may be easily recognized by the presence of a
								distinct spine or tubercle on the prosternum between the front pair of legs. They
								vary much in size and general appearance, and among them are found our most
								injurious insects of the order Orthoptera. They have the head, in general, smaller
								and less swollen than in the two preceding subfamilies; face rarely (Leptysmi) very oblique, usually nearly perpendicular; disk of vertex seldom
								sunken or concave, its sides low, rounded, often obsolete; foveolæ usually wanting
								or indistinct; pronotum with disk always free from tubercles and prominent wrinkles,
								its hind margin usually broadly rounded, never acute-angled; median carina always
								low and usually of nearly equal height throughout; lateral carinæ, with few
								exceptions, rounded or obsolete; tegmina usually well developed, but in a number of
								species very short, and in a few wholly wanting; inner wings (except in Romalea) never brightly colored as in the Oedipodinæ, but usually
								transparent.
							The prevailing color of most species of the subfamily is dull olivaceous brown,
								though a number of them are so striped or mottled with yellow, green or fuscous as
								to be decidedly handsome. Among the members of the principal genus (Melanoplus) there is considerable variation in color locally, according to
								the character of the station where found, and also seasonably, whether collected
								early or late in the fall. As a rule specimens collected after a number of hard
								frosts are duller, darker and more suffused than summer examples, the coloration of
								the individual being apparently considerably modified by such exposure.


							

							With few exceptions, all of our northern species pass the winter in the egg stage,
								and begin to reach maturity about June 1st, though most of them are not common until
								July. The Kentucky blue-grass and the different kinds of meadow grasses are then a
								darker green and, when rank, turn brown early in the autumn. The different species
								of Melanoplus and other locusts whose hues are olive green or
								brown, find in the falled clumps of these grasses places of hiding well suiting
								their color, as well as an abundance of food well suiting their taste. In Florida
								and other southern states more species pass the winter as adults, though even there
								the majority are represented during the winter months by the eggs alone.
							The males of Locustinæ rarely stridulate, and then only when at rest, by rubbing
								the inner surface of the hind femora against the outer surface of the tegmina.
									Scudder (1893, 75) has mentioned the stridulation movements, without
								record of sound, in Melanoplus femur-rubrum. Morse (Ms.) is
								inclined to doubt the production of sound by the majority of our species, though all
								have the "ear" or tympanal membrane present, stating that: "It seems to me not
								unlikely that they might make the movement (as a family characteristic) even if no
								sound was produced."
							The literature, treating more or less especially of North American Locustinæ, is as
								follows: Scudder, 1875b, 1878, 1896d, 1897, 1897a, 1897b, 1899b, 1899c;
									Bruner, 1893; Morse, 1898; Rehn, 1902;
									Blatchley, 1903; Somes, 1914; R. & H.,
									1916; Hebard, 1917b, 1918, 1919a.
							For convenience of treatment, the Locustinæ of the Eastern States may be subdivided
								into four groups or tribes, separated as follows:

							
								KEY TO THE EASTERN TRIBES OF THE SUBFAMILY LOCUSTINÆ.

								a. Inner wings carmine red with black border; hind tibiæ furnished above
									with an apical spine on both sides; form very large and robust, length of body
									50--60 mm.; adult with tegmina shorter than abdomen. Tribe I.
											ROMALI, p. 304.
								aa. Inner wings transparent or nearly so; hind tibiæ with no apical spine
									on the outer side; form much more slender, rarely (Schistocerca)
									over 45 mm. in length, usually much less; tegmina of adult usually equalling or
									exceeding the abdomen, when shorter, the body not over 30 mm. in length.
								b. Face very oblique; fastigium of vertex triangular, strongly produced in
									front of eyes; antennæ more or less ensiform, the joints of basal half flattened;
									front and middle legs very short. Tribe II. LEPTYSMI, p. 307.
								bb. Face nearly vertical; fastigium not triangularly produced; antennæ
									filiform; front and middle legs of moderate length.



								

								c. Lobes of mesosternum longer than broad, their inner margin straight;
									side margins of metazona rounded; size larger, the tegmina of female 30 or more
									mm. in length; subgenital plate of male with a distinct U- or V-shaped notch at
									apex. Tribe III. SCHISTOCERCI, p.
									310.
								cc. Lobes of mesosternum transverse, their width at least equal to the
									length, their inner margins usually rounded; side margins of metazona angulate;
									size smaller, the tegmina rarely over 25 mm. in length; apex of subgenital plate
									of male without notch.Tribe IV. MELANOPLI, p.
										320.
							

							
								Tribe I. ROMALI.

								Very robust species, having the vertex flat, triangular, advanced in front of
									eyes a distance equal to two-thirds the interocular width, its median carina and
									foveolæ wanting, the margins raised, rather sharp, meeting in front at an obtuse
									angle; antennæ acuminate, the joints very distinct, more or less flattened;
									pronotum with median carina distinct throughout, cut three times by the transverse
									sulci, prozona tectiform, metazona flat; tegmina and wings not over three-fourths
									the length of abdomen. One genus represents the tribe in the southern States.
							

							
								I. ROMALEA
									Serville, 1831, 280. (Gr., "strong of body.")

								In addition to the characters of the tribe, this genus has the face nearly
									vertical; frontal costa prominent, compressed, its sides converging above the
									antennæ, deeply sulcate from near its junction with vertex to below the ocellus ;
									pronotum with front margin subtruncate, prozona one-third longer than metazona,
									the latter with hind margin prolonged, obtuse-angulate; lateral carinæ distinct
									but obtuse on metazona, obsolete on prozona; lateral lobes longer than deep, their
									front margin subvertical, hind one strongly oblique, lower one with posterior half
									straight, its hind angle obtuse, front half ascending; tegmina with humeral and
									anal veins very strong, the others weak; hind femora rather slender, exceeding the
									abdomen in both sexes; prosternal spine prominent, acute; abdomen carinate above;
									subgenital plate of male triangular, shorter than the preceding segment, its apex
									emarginate; valves of ovipositor large, strongly exserted. The genus is
									represented by one species, dimorphic in color, and therefore known under several
									names.

								
									131. ROMALEA MICROPTERA
										(Beauvois), 1805, 146. Southern Lubberly Locust.

									General color of adults of typical form dull yellow; disk of pronotum
										clouded with fuscous; tegmina yellow with numerous scattered black dots, the
										apical two-thirds of discoidal area rosaceous; wings bright carmine red, the
										apical border black; apical half of antennæ, knees and sides of  abdomen more or less fuscous; outer face of all the
										femora with numerous small black spots. The black markings vary greatly in
										number and size; in some specimens, var. marci
										Serv. (1839, 623), the black predominates, the side margins and
										median carina of pronotum and hind margin of abdominal segments alone being
										yellow, tegmina fuscous; inner wings as in the typical form. Structural
										characters as given above. Length of body, ♂, 50--54, ♀, 62--70; of pronotum, ♂,
										15--17.5, ♀, 20--22; of tegmina, ♂, 23--28, ♀, 29--33; of hind femora, ♂,
										26--32, ♀, 31--36 mm. (Fig. 111.)
								
								
									Fig. 111. Female. Two-thirds life size.
								

								Ormond and Dunedin, Fla., June--August, adults; Ormond, Sanford, Sarasota, Lake
									Istokpoga, Citrus Center and Dunedin, Feb. 20--April 10, nymphs (W.
										S. B.) ; Mobile and Tuscaloosa, Ala., July--August, var. marci
										(Loding). By other collectors R. microptera has been
									taken at numerous localities in Florida as far south as Homestead and Chokoloskee.
									It occurs especially along the margins of cultivated grounds, roadsides and
									railways, though often found on the undergrowth in open pine woods. The young
									begin to appear in southern Florida in February, the first ones becoming mature
									about June 10. Davis found the adults in numbers at Punta Gorda as late as Nov.
									15, where "they were feeding on a papilionaceous plant along an old railroad
									embankment, and when disturbed would walk off in an amusingly stately, dignified
									manner. This lubber grasshopper can make a hissing sound, which is produced by the
									air being forced from the large stigmata near the base of the wings. This was more
									particularly noticed in recently matured individuals." Morse (1907,
										42) also notes this defensive action, stating that: "When disturbed, the
									tegmina are often elevated and the brilliant carmine wings rapidly vibrated,
									producing a buzzing noise. If taken in hand, a disagreeable dark-brown, frothy
									liquid is effused with a hissing sound from the mesothoracic spiracles, which
									probably is repugnatory in function."
								The young of this lubberly locust differ much in hue from the adults being
									usually greenish-black in color with a narrow median dorsal stripe, hind edge of
									thorax, and often the fore femora and sides of head, blood-red. Sometimes they are
									a nearly uniform reddish-brown instead of black and red, and as they grow in size
										 the red markings change to orange-yellow. During
									their early life they are more gregarious than the young of other species, 50 to
									75 of them often occurring on a single weed or bunch of grass, whose leaves they
									wholly devour. They are very slow and clumsy in movement, crawling feebly over the
									ground when knocked off the plant to which they are clinging. Their natural
									enemies are few, they being apparently so nauseating that even chickens reject
									them as food. C. R. Dodge (1877) says that: "At times the insect is
									injurious on truck farms in the Gulf States, as it destroys all kinds of
									vegetables, melons, etc., even crawling up into peach and fig trees to devour the
									fruit. As they cannot fly and leap but short distances, they can be easily
									destroyed by sweeping into nets or by simply crushing them on the ground by the
									foot, first jarring them down from the plants on which they are feeding."
								Of the stridulation of R. microptera
									Scudder (1893, 75; 1897d, 102) says: "I received two females of this
									species alive, and kept one of them for some time. She was excessively deliberate
									in her movements, cleaning her antennæ by treading upon one at a time and drawing
									it from under her feet. In the sunshine she stridulated by raising her tegmina
									directly upward against the half-opened wings, making a rough, scratching sound,
									which was repeated rather rapidly but variably from two to ten times." He adds
									that Dr. Shufeldt has recorded the males preceding mating as "keeping up a very
									audible buzzing racket with their fore wings which they elevated and lowered at a
									few seconds intervals, showing the lower carmine pair each time they did so, with
									telling effect."
								The known range of R. microptera is principally confined to the
									Lower Austral zone, extending from Cabarrus Co., N. Car., west to Lookout
									Mountain, Tenn., and south and southwest throughout the mainland of Florida,
									Georgia and probably Alabama and Mississippi, to New Orleans, La. Adults of the
									black form marci are known only from the region north of
									Florida. As already noted, it has been mentioned or recorded under many synonymous
									names, chief among which are Dictyophorus reticulatus Thunb.,
										D. guttatus Stoll and D. marci Serv., the
									latter being the melanistic form above described. The Rhomalea
										gloveri
									Kirby (1910, 370) and the R. centurio of
										Thos. (1873, 179) nec Drury, are also to be referred to R. microptera. In fact, all records of very large, short-winged
									locusts from the southern United States east of the Mississippi are to be referred
									to R. microptera, the western lubberly locust, Brachystola magna (Gir.), not occurring east of that stream, while the Chromacris colorata
									Serv. (1839,  674), described from
									South Carolina, is a Mexican species45; Serville's type, as pointed out by R. & H.
										(1916, 194), having been probably based on a wrongly labelled
									specimen.
							

							
								Tribe II. LEPTYSMI.

								Very slender, subcylindrical species, possessing the characters given in the
									tribal key and having the vertex very narrow between the eyes; disk of pronotum
									rounded, its median carina faint or wanting, hind margin broadly rounded; tegmina
									exceeding the abdomen, their tips acute; mesosternal lobes as wide as long, their
									inner margin rounded; hind tibiæ slightly widened toward apex, their outer margins
									acute. Two genera represent the tribe in North America.

								
									KEY TO GENERA OF NORTH AMERICAN LEPTYSMI.

									a. Head as long as or longer than pronotum; fastigium of vertex as long
										as the eyes and with a deep median groove; face coarsely punctate. I. LEPTYSMA.
									aa. Head shorter than pronotum; fastigium shorter than eyes and without
										a median groove; face almost smooth. II. STENACRIS.
								
							

							
								I. LEPTYSMA
									Stål, 1873, 42. (Gr., "slender.")

								Slender, subcylindrical species, having the fastigium prominent, horizontal,
									projected in front of eyes in the form of an equilateral triangle, the sides low,
									but distinct; frontal costa low, a little narrowed between the ocellus, shallowly
									sulcate throughout; eyes longer than wide, set very obliquely on the head; antennæ
									shorter than head and pronotum, strongly tapering; pronotum almost cylindrical,
									the metazona a little the wider, front margin truncate; median carina subobsolete,
									obvious only on the metazona, lateral carinæ wanting; lateral lobes longer than
									deep, their front margin oblique, hind one slightly concave, lower one subsinuate;
									prosternal spine short, its tip obtusely rounded; tegmina fully developed, the
									apical third gradually narrowed; hind femora very slender, slightly shorter than
									abdomen in both sexes; cerci of male slender, tapering, bent abruptly upward and
									forward near base; subgenital plate narrow, upturned, tapering to a point; upper
									valves of ovipositor much longer than lower ones, their dorsal margins with a row
									of prominent teeth. An American genus, nine species being recognized by
										Kirby (1910, 410), one from the United States, the others from
									Mexico and South America.

								
									132. LEPTYSMA MARGINICOLLIS
										(Serville), 1839, 591. Slender Locust.

									Ground color of living specimens usually light yellowish-brown or fawn,
										unbroken except by a narrow, yellowish stripe extending from the 45Numerous specimens
											are in the writer's collection from Orizaba, Mexico.
										 hind border of eye along the lower edge of
										pronotum to coxa of hind leg. In fresh specimens this is bordered above by one
										of darker brown, and sometimes the entire upper surface and antennæ are
										handsomely tinged with purplish or carmine red. In dried specimens the brown and
										the tips of tegmina become darker. Hind tibiæ tinged with bluish, their spines
										tipped with black. Face, vertex, occiput and pronotum, densely punctured.
										Tegmina exceeding the abdomen by 3 to 5 mm. Wings transparent, equal to tegmina,
										male, slightly shorter, female. Other structural characters as given above.
										Length of body, ♂, 28--31, ♀, 31--38; of antennæ, ♂, 8, ♀, 6; of pronotum, ♂,
										4.5--5.2, ♀, 5.5--6.5; of tegmina, ♂, 20--27, ♀ 25-34; of hind femora, ♂,
										12.5--14.5, ♀, 16--18 mm. (Fig. 112.)
								
								
									Fig. 112. Leptysma marginicollis (Serv.). (After
										Comstock.)
								

								Vigo Co., Ind., May 21--Oct. 11; Gainesville, Little River, Moore Haven, Palm
									Beach Canal, Cape Sable and Dunedin, Fla., Nov. 4--April (W. S.
										B.). In Indiana this slender-bodied, graceful species has as yet been taken
									only in Vigo County, where it was first found in October, 1892. It was then quite
									common on the tall sedges and rushes which grew near the margin of a large pond in
									the Wabash River bottoms, nine miles below Terre Haute. Its range before that time
									had been supposed to be a strictly southern one, it having been recorded only from
									Florida and North Carolina. Its occurrence in numbers as far north as central
									Indiana was, therefore, of especial interest, and can only be accounted for by the
									presence of the broad and sheltering valley of the Wabash, within the confines of
									which it finds a climate and a vegetation congenial to its taste.
								In 1893 and 1894 the insect was still present, though in rapidly decreasing
									numbers, as the pond was partially drained. I was much surprised to find, on May
									21, 1893, a fully developed male with soft flabby wings, as though just moulted,
									though no others of any age were seen on that date. In October, 1917, I again
									visited the former site of the pond, but found only a vast cornfield, with no
									signs of this or the other rare Orthoptera, which formerly dwelt in numbers, in
									that locality. If still a member of the Indiana fauna, marginicollis will probably be found only about the margins of the larger
									ponds in the lower Wabash Valley.
								At the Indiana locality mentioned, as well as in Florida, marginicollis has never been seen on the ground, and has never been noted
									to leap when disturbed, but always moves with a quick and noiseless flight for 20
									or more feet to a stem of grass, sedge or rush, on which it alights. The instant
									it grasps the stem it dodges quickly around to the side opposite the intruder.
									Then, holding  the stem firmly with its short front
									and middle legs, it draws its slender hind femora close up against the body, and
									folding the tibiæ into position, hugs its support as closely as possible, and
									remains perfectly motionless. Its body is almost cylindrical, and being of the
									same general color of the plant on which it rests, it is almost impossible to
									detect it, unless one notes exactly where it alights. Eight times out of ten a
									person, by approaching quietly, can reach his hand about the plant stem and grasp
									the insect. Its habits thus excellently illustrate the so-called "protective
									mimicry" of form and coloring, as it always seems to choose a cylindrical object,
									and one similar to its own color before alighting.
								Aside from the localities above mentioned, L. marginicollis has
									been recorded from numerous other stations in Florida and doubtless occurs in
									suitable environments throughout the mainland of that State. About Dunedin both
									adults and nymphs occur throughout the winter on and among the brown stems of tall
									sedges and grasses along the borders of ponds and marshes. A half dozen or more
									specimens of the pink individuals are taken each winter around the borders of a
									certain wet-weather pond. According to Dr. Hancock, these are the first pink
									Acridians which have been noted in the United States. The species ranges from
									Maryland and Virginia, west to southern Indiana and Nebraska, and south and
									southwest to Florida, Texas and Southern California.46
							

							
								II. STENACRIS
									F. Walker, 1870, 651. (Gr., "slender" + "locust.")

								Very slender, subcylindrical species, having the fastigium short, blunt,
									separated from the vertex by a transverse groove, its margin not raised, apex
									rounded; frontal costa shallowly sulcate, its margins parallel throughout; eyes
									elliptical, oblique; antennæ feebly ensiform, slightly shorter than head and
									thorax together; pronotum subcylindrical, its disk granulate-punctate, cut by
									three sulci, median and lateral carinæ wholly wanting, metazona two-thirds the
									length of prozona; lateral lobes as in Leptysma; tegmina narrow,
									nearly as long as body, strongly surpassing the abdomen, their tips acute; hind
									femora slender, shorter than abdomen, male, reaching its tip, female; prosternal
									spine stout, cylindrical, obtuse; subgenital plate of male with median portion
									prolonged, subspatulate, each side produced into a distinct spine or cusp; valves
									of ovipositor short, feebly exserted, the upper ones strongly serrate above.
								This generic name replaces Arnilia
									Stål (1873). Eleven 46Scudder, Psyche, IX, 1900, 116. .
									 species are recognized by Kirby, one from the
									southern United States, the others from Mexico, Central and South America.

								
									133. STENACRIS VITREIPENNIS
										(Marschall), 1835, 214. Glassy-winged Locust.

									Pale green, usually with a yellowish tinge, often with a pale lateral line
										on head extending back along the lower margin of lateral lobes; when dry often
										fading to dull yellow with tegmina and tibiæ only green, the pale stripe wholly
										disappearing; antennæ and tarsi of front and middle legs dusky; wings
										transparent. Structural characters as given above. Length of body, ♂, 24--26, ♀,
										27--29; of pronotum, ♂, 4.5, ♀, 5.5; of tegmina, ♂, 24--25, ♀, 27--29; of hind
										femora, ♂, 12.5--13, ♀, 15--16 mm.
								

								Enterprise, Sanford, Lake Istokpoga, Moore Haven, Sarasota and Dunedin, Fla.;
									Dec. 11--May 10 (W. S. B.) Recorded by other collectors from
									numerous localities between Appalachicola and Jacksonville in the north, and Miami
									and Ft. Myers in the south. At Dunedin, on March 22, 1913, it was found in
									abundance on the foliage of the pickerel weed, Pontederia
										cordata L., then in full blossom along the margin of a pond. It has since
									been noted in small numbers each season, but only in the adult stage, along the
									pathways of low, open pine woods near the margins of wet hammocks. Much more wary
									than Leptysma, which it resembles closely in form and habits, it
									often flies long distances when flushed, and invariably alights on the leaves of
									cabbage palmetto or green grass or sedge where, slipping quickly behind a leaf or
									stem, it seeks to evade the pursuer. Sometimes, by approaching quietly, it can
									then be grasped by a quick motion of the hand, but is usually caught more readily
									with the net. Hebard has noted its partiality for cat-tails, and it probably
									occurs among green semi-aquatic vegetation throughout the mainland of Florida.
								The known range of S. vitreipennis is limited, extending only
									from Lake Ellis, N. Car., south and west through southern Georgia and Florida to
									Appalachicola in the latter State. The majority of the records of its occurrence
									have been made under the names Arnilia chlorizans and Stenacris chlorizans Walker, which are synonyms, while the
									Carolina record of Arnilia cylindrodes
									Stål (1873, 85) undoubtedly refers to a South American species.
							

							
								Tribe III. SCHISTOCERCI.

								To this tribe, as defined in the key, p. 304, belongs only the single genus:
							

							
								I. SCHISTOCERCA
									Stål, 1873, 64. (Gr., "cleft" + "tail.")

								Large, rather slender-bodied species, having the fastigium of vertex sloping
									downward and passing insensibly into the frontal 
									costa, its sides low, indistinct, median carina wanting, foveolæ very small, often
									obsolete; face nearly vertical; eyes oblong-oval, prominent; antennæ of medium
									length, filiform; disk of pronotum with sides sloping on prozona, metazona usually
									flat or nearly so, front margin truncate, hind margin either broadly rounded or,
									in some males, obtuse-angled, median carina low but distinct, cut three times by
									the transverse sulci, lateral carinæ wanting; lobes of mesosternum longer than
									broad; tegmina always fully developed; wings of large expanse, transparent or
									nearly so; hind femora slender, usually equalling or exceeding tip of abdomen;
									hind tibiæ with numerous spines in regular rows on each side; second tarsal joint
									only half as long as first. Males with cerci wide, oblong, usually of nearly equal
									breadth throughout; subgenital plate strongly upcurved, its apex deeply notched.
									Valves of ovipositor strongly exserted.
								This is a large, typically American genus, all of the species, according to Stål,
									its founder, being American or of American origin. Kirby (1910, 454)
									recognized 73 species, a number of which are known synonyms. Of these 12 were
									accredited to the United States, the others mostly to Mexico, Central and South
									America. We have in the Eastern States four species and two races or
									varieties.

								
									KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF SCHISTOCERCA.

									a. Median or discoidal area of tegmina with large, distinct isolated
										reddish-brown spots; disk of pronotum flat or nearly so, and with a broad pale
										median stripe; cerci of male feebly but distinctly tapering from base to apex.
											134. AMERICANA.
									aa. Median area of tegmina of males usually immaculate, of females
										sometimes with numerous small vague fuscous spots or dots; disk of pronotum more
										or less distinctly tectiform, its median pale stripe, when present, narrow;
										cerci of male of nearly equal breadth throughout.
									b. Antennæ of male one-third or more longer than head and pronotum
										together; anal area of tegmina usually with a distinct pale stripe; larger, the
										female 45 or more mm. in length.
									c. Hind tibiæ reddish-yellow or pale brown in hue; notch of subgenital
										plate of male U-shaped, about as broad as deep; general hue of tegmina dark
										olive-green or rusty brown; length of body, female, usually less than 50
										mm.
									d. Head, thorax and anal area of tegmina with a pale dorsal median
										stripe; tegmina immaculate; pronotum distinctly tectate; fastigium more
										elongate. 135. ALUTACEA.
									dd. Dorsal surface without pale median stripe; tegmina usually with
										distinct fuscous spots; pronotum feebly tectiform; fastigium shorter. 135a. RUBIGINOSA.
									cc. Hind tibiæ blackish purple; notch of subgenital plate of male  deep, V-shaped; tegmina normally dark
										purplish-brown; female larger, 50--60 mm. in length. 136. OBSCURA.
									bb. Antennæ of male not more than one-fifth longer than head and
										pronotum together; anal or dorsal area of tegmina without distinct pale stripe;
										size smaller, the female rarely exceeding 42 mm. in length; notch of male
										subgenital plate deep, narrowly V-shaped.
									e. Form short, stocky; tegmina of female reaching only base of
										ovipositor and tips of hind femora, usually immaculate. 137.
												DAMNIFICA.
									ee. Form more slender and more compressed; tegmina in both sexes
										distinctly surpassing abdomen and tips of hind femora, those of female usually
										sprinkled with numerous fuscous spots. 137a. CALIDIOR.
								

								
									134. SCHISTOCERCA AMERICANA47
										(Drury), I, 1773, 128. American Locust.

									Size large, the female often two inches or more in length, the male
										distinctly smaller; form rather slender. Color reddish-brown, often with a
										slight vermilion tint; dorsal surface with a yellowish stripe extending from
										vertex along the middle of head, pronotum and anal area of tegmina as far as the
										tip of the abdomen; side of head with a dark brown line running from lower side
										of eye down the cheek; lateral lobes of prozona with a broad yellowish stripe on
										upper third, a short and narrow yellow dash near the center, the lower margin
										yellowish. Tegmina with numerous large dark brown spots, separated by light
										interspaces; the costal or lower margin whitish-yellow, mottled with darker.
										Wings transparent, the nerves of basal portion yellowish. Outer face of hind
										femora reddish-brown, with one or two dark streaks along the upper third. Hind
										tibiæ vermilion red, duller in dried specimens; the spines yellow, tipped with
										black. Vertex hexagonal, the disk a little depressed. Frontal costa broad,
										prominent, sulcate near middle below the ocellus; feebly narrowed below point of
										union with vertex. Antennæ but little, if any, longer than head and pronotum
										together. Disk of pronotum flat on metazona, the sides rounded and feebly
										sloping on prozona, the surface marked with minute shallow cells, or densely
										punctate, the hind margin obtusely rounded. Tegmina exceeding the abdomen
										one-fourth or more their length in both sexes. Hind femora slender, reaching or
										slightly exceeding tip of abdomen. Spine of prosternum large, curved somewhat
										backward. Notch of subgenital plate of male narrow, deep. Length of body, ♂,
										39--42, ♀, 48--55; of antennæ, ♂, 12--13, ♀, 13--15; of pronotum, ♂, 9, ♀, 11;
										of tegmina, ♂, 42--44, ♀, 50--57; of hind femora, ♂, 23--25, ♀, 28--30 mm. (Fig.
										113.)
								

								This is the largest locust found in Indiana, and when freshly 47Hebard (1915b, 406)
										has replaced the long used specific name of this well known locust with that of
											serialis Thunb., basing his replacement on the ground that
										the Libellula americana of Drury, an Orthopteron, was
										preoccupied by Libellula americana L., a dragonfly. The
										placing of the locust under Libellula was an error by Drury
										and was later corrected by him. The error was not in the text but only occurred
										in using ditto marks on a plate on which the name Libellula
										had been used for a series of dragonflies. When americana, the
										specific name of the locust, was reached, a ditto mark instead of the name Gryllus was by mistake placed under the generic name Libellula. This was an obvious typographical error and was open
										to the correction made by Drury in a footnote on page XVIII, Volume III, of the
										same work. I, therefore, prefer to retain the name americana,
										believing that in time its use will be upheld by the International Commission of
										Zoölogical Nomenclature.
									 moulted, one of the most handsome. It probably
									occurs in all the counties, but is much less common in the northern ones. Freshly
									moulted, mature specimens, from eggs hatched in spring, have been taken in Vigo
									County on June 18th, and on three different occasions numerous specimens have been
									seen as late as November 22d. On this date, in Marion County, when the government
									thermometer rgistered 17° in the morning, several were flushed in the afternoon,
									though a cold, raw wind was blowing. In the central and southern parts of the
									State it is more abundant in mid-autumn than in summer. There occasionally may be
									two broods in one season, as I have found the nymphs common in Vigo Co. on October
									15 and 21.
								
									Fig. 113. Male. Natural size. (After Lugger.)
								
								This species is noted for its extended migrations and when a second brood
									appears, they are doubtless from eggs laid by mature specimens which have entered
									the State in early spring. About 3 o'clock in the morning of April 11, 1893, the
									city of Terre Haute, Ind., was visited with a severe storm of rain and wind from
									the southwest. A number of buildings were unroofed and many shade and forest trees
									twisted and broken off. While on my way to the high school building several
									persons informed me that they had, that morning, seen specimens of "gigantic
									grasshoppers" on the street, but were unable to capture them. About 10 o'clock one
									of my former pupils brought me two living specimens of S.
										americana, which she had picked up from the sidewalk near her home. They
									had come sailing in on the wings of the wind from some distant point in the
									southwest, where they had passed the winter in the mature state or as an advanced
									form of the young.48 Mature
									individuals which had doubtless migrated have also been taken in Lake County on
									May 13, and one is recorded by Fox (1916) as taken at Lafayette in
									late March.
								In the southern portion of Indiana, americana is always found
									in dry, upland localities, such as the borders of roads, old meadows, weed and
									stubble fields, prairies, and especially in old abandoned fields which have grown
									up to oak and other shrubs. In the northern portion it occurs in damper
									localities, being found in the tall grasses and sedges along the borders of
									sloughs and marshes and in the meadows bordering lakes and tamarack 48See Psyche, VI,
											1893, 465.
									 marshes. When flushed it rises quickly and with a
									fluttering noise, makes a long, wavering, jerky flight, and alights upon the bole
									or branch of tree or shrub, a fence, or some other object some distance above the
									earth; seldom, if ever, settling on the ground. If then approached, it dodges
									around the object upon which it rests, much as does a squirrel under the same
									circumstances.
								In Florida S. americana has been taken by me at all points
									where collecting has been done. About Dunedin, it is frequent throughout the
									winter, especially so in old fields, and on Hog Island it occurs among the coarse
									grasses, within 50 feet of the strand. When flushed in the pine woods it often
									alights on the boles of the trees eight to 20 feet above the ground. It has been
									recorded many times from all parts of the State, including the southern keys.
									Adults are to be found any month in the year, but nymphs are scarce in winter. It
									is often called the "clickety bug" by the southern negroes, a name given it on
									account of the rustling noise made by the wings in flight, which, however, is not
									a true stridulation.
								Of the distribution of the American locust Scudder (1899c, 474) has
									written: "Excepting S. peregrina, which has crossed the ocean
									and colonized another world, S. americana is the most widely
									distributed member of the genus, and merits its name, ranging as it does from
									North America east of the Great Plains and south of about latitude 40°; through
									the West Indies, Mexico and Central America to South America, where it occurs as
									far as Colombia in the west and Argentina in the east, though the records of its
									occurrence in South America are few. North of north latitude 40° or thereabouts,
									sporadic cases of its appearance are recorded, notably in Massachusetts and
									southern Ontario; these are doubtless accidental visitants, flying from their
									proper home farther south." Since Scudder's writing, it has been recorded from
									Connecticut by Walden (1911, 108), and extreme northern Iowa by
										Somes (1914, 68), so that taking its northern Indiana, Michigan and
									other records into consideration, it is liable to be found anywhere in our
									territory south of north latitude 45°.

								
									135. SCHISTOCERCA ALUTACEA
										(Harris), 1841, 139. Leather-colored Locust.

									Size medium, the female much the larger, with more robust body. Color
										purplish-brown to olive-green, darker in old or dried specimens; dorsal surface
										with a narrow bright yellow median stripe running from front of vertex back over
										head, pronotum and anal area of tegmina; sides of tegmina rarely with a few
										minute fuscous spots. Wings transparent yellowish, the veins darker. Sides of
										abdomen with a row of black dots on the hind margin of each segment. Outer face
										of hind femora reddish-brown  or yellowish,
										usually with a row of black dots along the upper and lower margins. Hind tibiæ
										brown, often with a reddish tinge, the spines yellowish, tipped with black.
										Vertex rather prominent, narrow; disk subrhomboidal, but little depressed, its
										sides low, distinct only on front half. Face vertical, frontal costa narrow,
										slightly sulcate below the ocellus, the joints slightly flattened. Disk of
										pronotum flat on metazona, the sides higher and sloping on prozona, hind margin
										broadly obtuse-angled, surface densely punctate, median carina low but distinct.
										Prosternal spine large, cylindrical, its apex rounded. Tegmina exceeding the
										abdomen about one-fourth their length, male, one-sixth, female. Hind femora
										slender, reaching tip of abdomen, female, exceeding it 2 to 3 mm., male. Cerci
										of male short, oblong, their upper edge concave or broadly notched. Length of
										body, ♂, 28--32, ♀, 42--50; of antennæ, ♂ and ♀, 15--17 mm.; of pronotum, ♂,
										6.5--7.8, ♀, 9.5--11; of tegmina, ♂, 24--28, ♀, 36--41; of hind femora, ♂,
										17.5--19.5, ♀, 22--27 mm. (Fig. 114.)
								

								This species has been taken only in the western half of Indiana, from Knox Co.
									northward, though it doubtless occurs in suitable environments throughout the
									State. It is abundant about the marshy meadows and sloughs in Fulton, Lake and
									Starke counties, where it has been taken on August 15th in numbers. There it makes
									its home in the rank grasses, weeds and rushes which grow in such places. The
									males are everywhere much more abundant and more active than the females, though
									they usually fly a shorter distance. In Vigo County it is frequent in patches of
									raw, damp prairie and along the edges of thickets bordering them; also in many
									places along the railways, especially where they pass through prairie regions.
									Both sexes, when flushed, arise with a whirring noise which, however, is not a
									true stridulation. The males usually fly about 50 feet and settle down on the
									grass or on a low shrub.
								
									Fig. 114. Female. (After Lugger.)
								
								I have not so far taken alutacea in Florida, but it occurs
									sparingly throughout the mainland of that State, as shown by the records of R.
									& H., Morse and Davis. The form found on the southern keys is rubiginosa (Scudd.).
								The known range of this typical form of alutacea is a very wide
									one, extending from New England to California, and south  to northern Mexico. Wherever found it occurs for the most part in
									moist places, preferring the rank mixed growth of grassy swamps and prairies to
									the drier fields and woodlands. The Acridium emarginatum
									Scudd.49 (1872,
										250) is a synonym.

								
									135a. SCHISTOCERCA ALUTACEA RUBIGINOSA
										(Scudder), 1862, 467. Rusty Locust.

									Size medium, the body of female especially bulky. Color a nearly uniform
										rusty brown, without median yellow stripe above; tegmina usually with numerous
										rounded fuscous spots on sides. Wings transparent and glassy, slightly reddish
										toward tip. Head and pronotum wider than in alutacea, the
										fastigium broader and more declivent. Frontal costa wider and flatter than in
											alutacea, sulcate below the ocellus. Disk of pronotum
										broader, with the sides less sloping on both prozona and metazona, the median
										carina usually more prominent than in alutacea, otherwise the
										same Tegmina exceeding the abdomen in both sexes. Length of body, ♂, 30--36, ♀,
										43--54; of antennæ, ♂, 13, ♀, 15; of pronotum, ♂, 7--8.5, ♀, 9--11; of tegmina,
										♂, 25--32, ♀, 35--41; of hind femora, ♂, 17--19, ♀, 23--25 mm.
								

								This seems to be a scarce locust in Indiana, having been taken only in Marshall,
									Cass, Porter and Crawford counties; July 20-Oct. 12. It prefers dry upland
									pastures and woodland, especially those with a soil of sand, where scrub oak
									abounds. Its habits of flight are the same as those of alutacea.
									Numerous specimens are at hand from New England, in addition to those from
									Indiana, and in all the fuscous spots of tegmina are plainly visible in both
									sexes, whereas they are wholly absent in all males of alutacea,
									and present but very faint on but two or three of the numerous females of that
									species.
								In Florida rubiginosa has been recorded from a number of places
									between Jacksonville and Key West, being the common form on the southern keys.
										R. & H. (1916, 197) regard it as only a color phase of alutacea, stating that intermediate forms occur in New Jersey,
									South Carolina and Georgia. Morse (1904, 39) says of the two: "There
									is considerable variation in this species in color and markings in the direction
									of alutacea. Possibly hybrids occur, but typically these two
									species differ in color, structure and haunts." Later (1907, 44) he says: "It is
									very probable that some so-called species of Schistocerca are
									but forms of one which varies greatly in color and structure. In New England the
									two forms known as alutacea and rubiginosa
									seem to be constantly different structurally. Southward and westward the
									structural gap between the two seems to be bridged and both vary much in size,
									color, form and proportion of parts." I prefer to retain 49Kirby (1910, 458) accredits
										this name to Dodge (1871, 15). Dodge's paper was issued in 1872 and
										he gave the name only as Acridium emarginatum Uhler.
									
									rubiginosa as a variety, since it can be readily separated by
									the characters given in the key and habitually occurs in drier situations than
									does typical alutacea.
								The distribution of rubiginosa is given by Scudder
										(1899c, 462) as "The entire Atlantic Coast of the United States from
									Central Massachusetts to Key West, Fla., and in the interior, east of the Great
									Plains, from as far north as Iowa and Minnesota to the Gulf, extending into Mexico
									and even farther south."

								
									136. SCHISTOCERCA OBSCURA
										(Fabricius), 1798, 194. Larger Obscure Locust.

									Females very large, robust; males much smaller, more compressed. General
										color dark olive-green, usually with a narrow dorsal pale stripe as in alutacea; tegmina, in fresh specimens, a handsome
										purplish-brown, often fading to dull brown when dried, those of the unstriped
										female usually with vague indistinct fuscous spots. Antennæ yellowish, dusky
										toward tips. Hind femora often with short, oblique fuscous cross-bars on upper
										outer face; hind tibiæ blackish-purple, their spines yellow, tipped with black.
										Valves of ovipositor, sides of hind knees and a short stripe on mesopleura
										usually yellow. Structural characters much the same as in alutacea. Pronotum with median carina more sharply defined and slightly
										higher, especially on metazona, the hind margin more angulate. Cerci of male
										slightly narrower, their outer apical third concave and tips truncate. Notch of
										subgenital plate deep, V-shaped. Length of body, ♂, 34--40, ♂, 50--61; of
										antennæ, ♂ and ♀, 17--18.5; of pronotum, ♂, 7.5--8.7, ♀, 11--13; of tegmina, ♂,
										31--36, ♀, 44--48; of hind femora, ♂, 20.5--22, ♀, 28--31 mm.
								

								Ormond, Gainesville, Miakka and Dunedin, Fla., Oct. 11--Apr. 4 (W.
										S. B.). This large and handsome species is not known from Indiana and is
									apparently scarce in Florida in winter and spring, having been noted only on three
									or four occasions. About Dunedin it was first seen on Hog Island, where three or
									four individuals were noted on the foliage of the Florida button-bush, Conocarpus erecta L., just inside the fringe of black mangrove. On
									two other occasions a few individuals were flushed from high weeds and willows
									along the margins of a moist hammock. The flight of the male is prolonged and both
									sexes, when flushed, always alight on shrubs or trees some distance above the
									ground. A single female from Ormond is of the unstriped variety with the tegmina
									vaguely flecked with fuscous, thus resembling S. a. rubiginosa
									but much larger. S. obscure has been recorded from numerous
									other Florida stations between Jacksonville and Key Largo, but was nowhere found
									in large numbers.
								The known range of the species extends from Baltimore, Md., south and southwest
									in the coastwise states to Texas and Mexico. According to Scudder it is found
									throughout the latter country;  also in New Mexico,
									eastern Colorado, Nebraska and Iowa. R. & H. (1916, 200) state
									that in the southeastern states it is chiefly confined to the sands and gravels of
									the coastal plains and peninsular Florida. Fox (1917) says that in
									Virginia it "appears to occur most regularly in the reedy areas of tidal marshes,
									but it is also found in the dense herbage clothing the adjoining slopes of the dry
									land." Farther back from the coast, at Augusta and Albany, Ga., R. & H. found
									it on high weeds in or near cotton fields and also in long-leaf pine woods. They
									state that from Delaware to Florida it was "common only occasionally, being
									generally but few in numbers and very frequently associated with alutacea."

								
									137. SCHISTOCERCA DAMNIFICA
										(Saussure), 1861, 164. Mischievous Locust.

									Female robust, medium in size; male smaller, subcompressed, much more
										slender. Color a nearly uniform dark rust red or russet-brown; occiput and
										carina of pronotum with a narrow reddish-brown or brownsih-yellow line. Tegmina
										of female rarely with small, dim duski spots, the anal field usually pale brown.
										Outer face of hind femora sometimes whitish, with narrow dark oblique lines
										arranged herring-bone fashion. Head small, the disk of vertex hexagonal; frontal
										costa wide, feebly sulcate, coarsely punctate, the sides parallel below the
										ocellus, a little expanded and flat just above, then narrowed and convex at
										point of union with vertex. Disk of pronotum with the surface very rough with
										small pits and impressions, that of prozona strongly sloping, the median carina
										relatively high, nearly straight, hind margin right angled, male, very
										obtuse-angled or bluntly rounded, female. Tegmina of male slightly exceeding the
										abdomen; those of female reaching base of ovipositor and tip of hind femora, the
										latter shorter than abdomen. Length of body, ♂, 25--27, ♀, 37--42; of antennæ,
										♂, 10, ♀, 11; of pronotum, ♂, 6.5--7, ♀, 8.5--9.5; of tegmina, ♂, 20--25, ♀,
										26--29; of hind femora, ♂, 14--16, ♀, 19--21 mm. (Fig. 115.)
								
								
									Fig. 115. Male. X 1.5. (After R. & H.)
								

								This, our smallest eastern species of Schistocerca, has been
									taken in Indiana only in Crawford and Harrison counties. A single female was
									secured May 10, 1899. This was probably a migrant, as that is a very early date
									for eggs hatched in spring to mature, and it is not known that the species winters
									so far north in either the adult or nymph stage. Other specimens were taken in
									June and July, 1902, and September, 1918. It frequents old fields and roadsides on
									the crests of the higher hills near Wyandotte, and is probably to be found in
									similar localities throughout the southern third of the State. When flushed the
									males fly long distances and usually alight on the limbs of trees or fence posts,
										 around which they dodge, and from which they may
									often be taken with the hand. The females are more clumsy and usually try to
									escape by leaping or diving into a nearby clump of grass or shrubs.
								The range of S. damnifica is southern, and is given by
										Scudder (1899c, 475) as "United States east of the Great Plains,
									from Pennsylvania, Indiana, Illinois and Arkansas to the Gulf." He included,
									however, the southern form calidior in the range as quoted. In
									Ohio it has been taken at Sugar Grove and Cincinnati. Some of Scudder's specimens
									were from different localities in Texas. Saussure's type was from Tennessee, and
									Fox has recently taken it near Clarksville, that State. Allard (1916)
									states that "it is especially common in the cotton fields of northern Georgia,
									where it prefers to rest upon the bare earth rather than upon vegetation, the
									almost uniformly reddish-brown color making it quite indistinguishable from the
									red-land soils of that region." According to Caudell50 the nymphs of damnifica found about
									Washington, D. C., are dimorphic, being either a bright green or brown. He has
									bred both forms to maturity and found the green color to persist to the last stage
									nymphs, but to disappear in the final moult.
								The Cyrtacanthacris unilineata
									F. Walker (1870, 611) and the undescribed Acrydium
										appendiculatum. Uhl. (Ms.) of >Scudder (1877a, 86) are stated
									by Scudder to be synonyms of damnifica, but the latter name was
									based on specimens from Florida, and therefore is to be referred to the race calidior.

								
									137. SCHISTOCERCA DAMNIFICA CALIDIOR
										Rehn & Hebard, 1912, 258.

									More slender and compressed than typical damnifica.
										General color much as there, but the pronotum, discoidal area of tegmina and
										outer face of hind femora usually, female, rarely, male, thickly sprinkled with
										small rounded fuscous dots. Antennæ slightly longer and more filiform than in
											damnifica. Hind margin of metazona less obtusely angulate
										than in the typical form. Tegmina longer and more slender, distinctly surpassing
										the tips of hind femora in both sexes. Structural characters otherwise scarcely
										different. Length of body, ♂, 25--29, ♀, 39--46; of antennæ, ♂, 11, ♀, 12.5; of
										pronotum, ♂, 6.8--7.2, ♀, 9--10; of tegmina, ♂, 24--26, ♀, 33--34; of hind
										femora, ♂, 17--21, ♀, 21--23 mm. (Fig. 116.)
								

								This is one of the most common locusts in Florida during the winter months, the
									specimens at hand having been taken by me from November to April at all collecting
									stations except Key West, and at Mobile, Ala., by Loding. It has been recorded
									from all parts of the mainland of the State by other collectors, but 50Proc. Ent. Soc.
											Wash., 1916, 216.
									 as yet only from Big Pine Key of the southern
									islands. About Dunedin and Ormond it occurs in old deserted fields and along
									pathways and open spaces covered with wire grass in the pine and oak woods.
										R. & H. (1916, 206) give records of its distribution extending
									from Fayetteville, N. Car., south and west through southern Georgia and throughout
									Florida. They state that intergrading forms between it and damnifica occur about Florence, S. Car., and Wilmington and Fayetteville,
									N. Car. The longer tegmina and more slender form easily distinguish the Florida
									specimens from those of typical damnifica at hand from Indiana
									and Arkansas, and while the two forms are very closely related, calidior is probably worthy of its racial name.
								
									Fig. 116. Male. X i.5. (After R. & H.)
								
							

							
								Tribe IV. MELANOPLI.

								This tribe comprises the great majority of the true locusts or Acrididæ of the
									Eastern United States and Canada. They are for the most part of small or medium
									size, and all agree in having the fastigium of vertex more or less declivent and
									gradually merging into the frontal costa; foveolæ wanting or very minute; face
									moderately oblique or subvertical; antennæ filiform, longer than the fore femora;
									eyes of moderate size, usually not very prominent, the interocular space generally
									narrow; frontal costa not prominent, generally sulcate below the ocellus; disk of
									pronotum nearly flat, never crested, prozona generally longer than metazona,
									smooth or feebly punctate; metazona usually densely punctate; lateral carinæ
									usually indistinct or wholly wanting; lateral lobes with hind margin straight or
									nearly so, their posterior lower angle obtuse; tegmina often very short, rarely
									wholly wanting, usually fully developed and tapering gradually throughout their
									length; wings transparent; prosternal spine rather prominent and conical, rarely
									truncate; hind femora generally surpassing the abdomen; hind tibiæ with nine to 14
									spines on outer margin, the apical one lacking; second hind tarsal joint only half
									as long as the first; apex of male abdomen more or less enlarged and upcurved, the
									cerci and subgenital plate variable in the different genera.



								

								As pointed out by Scudder (1897, 4), the tribe is almost exclusively
									American, but one (Podisma) of the 30 genera recognized by him
									being represented in the Old World. Of these 22 are represented in America north
									of Mexico, but only eleven of them in the territory covered by this work. These
									may be separated by the following key, which is abridged and modified from that of
									Scudder.

								
									KEY TO EASTERN GENERA OF TRIBE MELANOPLI.

									a. Side margins of subgenital plate of male, viewed in profile, straight
										throughout or very feebly convex, never at all abruptly dilated or widened at
										base (Fig. 118 a); tegmina and wings wanting or much shorter
										than abdomen.
									b. Form very slender, subcylindrical; prozona three times as long as
										metazona; tegmina and wings wanting; body almost glabrous. I.
												GYMNOSCIRTETES, p. 322.
									bb. Form stout; prozona not over one-half longer than metazona; tegmina
										as long as or longer than pronotum, generally half the length of abdomen; body
										rather thickly pubescent. II. CAMPYLACANTHA,
											p. 325.
									Side margins of subgenital plate of male suddenly dilated or
										widened to a considerable degree at base (Fig. 118, c); if not
										so widened then the entire margin strongly convex or sinuate; tegmina and wings
										variable in length, rarely (Podisma and Aptenopedes) wanting.
									Subgenital plate of male with a distinct tubercle at apex, the
										margins of the plate meeting below the tubercle; cerci of male very slender and
										tapering. (P1. III, a.)
									d. Median carina of pronotum well developed throughout its length;
										lateral carinæ present on front half of prozona; tegmina not reaching middle of
										abdomen; prosternal spine sharply acuminate. III. EOTETTIX, p. 327.
									dd. Median carina feebly developed; lateral carinæ wholly wanting;
										tegmina usually nearly as long as or slightly longer than abdomen, rarely less
										than two-thirds its length; prosternal spine blunt at apex; general color green,
										the median pronotal carina reddish-purple. IV. HESPEROTETTIX, p. 329.
									cc. Subgenital plate of male without a distinct tubercle at apex, or, if
										present, small and the cerci then very broad.
									e. Interspace between the mesosternal lobes in both sexes much wider
										than long, as broad as or broader than the lobes themselves; tegmina usually and
										typically abbreviate, sometimes wanting.
									f. Head very large, face almost vertical; eyes small, prominent the
										interocular space nearly as broad as their greatest width; metazona
										rugulose-punctate; tegmina present, sometimes fully developed. V. DENDROTETTIX, p. 337.
									Head of moderate size, the face slightly oblique; eyes large,
										less prominent, the interocular space distinctly less than  their greatest width; metazona almost smooth; tegmina represented by
										small pads or wholly absent. VI. PODISMA, p.
											340.
									ee. Interspace between the mesosternal lobes distinctly longer than
										broad in male, generally quadrate in female, in both sexes always much narrower
										than the lobes themselves; tegmina variable in length.
									g. Face rather strongly oblique; eyes almost or quite twice as long as
										broad; tegmina linear and widely separated or wholly absent. VII. APTENOPEDES, p. 344.
									gg. Face almost vertical or slightly oblique; eyes rounded, never more
										than one and one-half times longer than broad; tegmina always present, rarely
										linear.
									h. Fastigium of vertex flat or convex; eyes widely separated, the
										interocular space twice as broad as the frontal costa; lateral carinæ distinct
										on both pro- and metazona; tegmina short, nearly as broad as long; cerci
										apically acuminate. VIII. PARATYLOTROPIDIA,
											p. 348.
									hh. Fastigium more or less depressed, its side margins feebly elevated;
										eyes narrowly separated, the interocular space but little wider than frontal
										costa; lateral carinæ of pronotum rarely present; tegmina variable in
										length.
									i. Dorsal surface of pronotum twice as long as the average breadth, the
										sides parallel; antennæ of male twice or more times as long as pronotum;
										subgenital plate of male broad, the apex truncate (Pl. IV, t.)
											IX. PAROXYA, p. 349.
									ii. Dorsal surface of pronotum never twice as long as the average
										breadth, generally only half as long again, the sides more or less constricted
										in the middle; antennæ of male less than twice the length of pronotum;
										subgenital plate of male with the apex usually rounded.
									j. Head swollen, large in proportion to the pronotum, nearly half as
										long again as the long prozona; pronotum feebly flaring in front to receive the
										head; cerci of male styliform; subgenital plate very narrow, the apical margin
										not elevated (Pl. IV, s.) X. PHŒTALIOTES, p. 356.
									jj. Head not large in proportion to pronotum, but little longer than the
										prozona; pronotum not enlarged in front to receive the head; cerci of male
										exceedingly variable, but very rarely styliform; subgenital plate never very
										narrow, often very broad, its apical margin usually elevated. XI. MELANOPLUS, p. 358.
								
							

							
								I. GYMNOSCIRTETES
									Scudder, 1897a, 195. (Gr., "naked" + "to leap.")

								Long, slender, subcylindrical species, having the vertex feebly convex,
									triangular, the interocular area very narrow, sulcate in  male; fastigium feebly declivent, much widened and concave in front of
									eyes; face distinctly, not strongly oblique; frontal costa wider than the
									interspace between the eyes, feebly constricted below the ocellus, deeply sulcate
									throughout; eyes large, prominent, especially so in male; antennæ much longer than
									head and pronotum together; pronotum compressed, cylindrical, front and hind
									margins truncate, sides parallel, median carina low, distinct, feebly cut by front
									and hind sulci; metazona very short, lateral carinæ absent; lateral lobes short,
									their lower margin subangulate at basal third; hind femora very slender; hind
									tibiæ with 8-10 short spines on outer margin; lobes of both meso- and metasterna
									attingent or nearly so. Two species are known, both from the Southern States:

								
									Fig. 117. a, b and c. Male supra-anal
										plate, outline of cercus and subgenital plate of Gymnoscirtetes
											pusillus; d, e, f, same of G. morsei;
											b and e X 32, the others by 21.
										(After Hebard.)
								

								
									KEY TO SPECIES OF GYMNOSCIBTETES.

									a. Smaller, length of body, male, 13.5--15 mm.; apex of subgenital plate
										of male slightly elevated into a minute erect tubercle; cerci straight,
										suberect, tapering from base to apex, as long as the supra-anal plate (Fig. 117,
											a, b, c.) 138. PUSILLUS.
									aa. Larger, length of body, male, 14.2--16.2 mm.; apex of subgenital
										plate strongly elevated in a large, medio-dorsal projection, which is fully
										twice as long as broad, with apex blunt and directed "dorso-cephalad;" cerci
										much longer, subfalcate (Fig. 117, d, e, f.) 139. MORSEI.
								

								
									138. GYMNOSCIRTETES PUSILLUS
										Scudder, 1897, 15. Little Wingless Locust.

									General color dull greenish-yellow; face pale brown; sides with a broad
										shining blackish-brown stripe extending from eyes back along the upper halves of
										lateral lobes of pronotum to beyond middle of abdomen; dorsal surface of abdomen
										and pleura fuscous; hind tibiæ pale dull green, the spines black, paler at base.
										Occiput and disk of pronotum finely alutaceous. Prosternal spine erect, slender,
										tapering to a rather acute apex.  Supra-anal plate
										of male large, triangular, with a narrow median and two broader lateral grooves
										on basal half; furcula represented by two feebly projecting rounded lobes.
										Valves of ovipositor slender, strongly exserted, the apical teeth acute in both
										pairs. Other structural characters as given above. Length of body, ♂ , 12.5--15,
										♀, 17--22; of antennæ, ♂, 5.7, ♀, 6.5; of hind femora, ♂, 7--8, ♀, 9.5--10
										mm.
								

								Hastings, Fla., Aug. 27--Sept. 5. Scudder's types were from Jacksonville, and it
									has been recorded by R. & H. and Morse from Pablo Beach, Gainesville, Cedar
									Keys, Live Oak, DeFuniak Springs, Lakeland and Pine Island, so that it probably
									occurs throughout the State. The Pine Island specimens were nymphs taken by
									Hebard, May 18--20; the other records of adults, Aug.--November.
								G. pusillus is so far known only from Georgia and Florida, its
									northern stations being Jesup and Brunswick, Ga. Morse (1904, 39)
									recorded it as "locally abundant at Waycross, Ga., in the open, lower marshy
									portions of the pine barrens, inhabiting a matted growth made up of pipe-wort,
									sedge and juncus stems." R. & H. (1916, 207) state that in
									southeastern Georgia and northeastern Florida it is "frequently exceedingly
									plentiful locally in the heavier undergrowth of the long-leaf pine forests,
									especially where the ground is low." Hebard says that "they are masters of the art
									of jumping. They can leap so quickly that the eye cannot follow them and can jump
									in any direction with such rapidity that it is impossible to see where they have
									gone. They jump from one tuft of wire grass to the top of another tuft, and there
									cling tightly to the highest straw, ready to make another leap." The species is
									one of the smallest and without doubt the most slender-bodied of all our eastern
									Acridians.

								
									139. GYMNOSCIRTETES MORSEI
										Hebard, 1918, 142. Morse's Wingless Locust.

									"Closely related to G. pusillus Scudder, agreeing in form,
										coloration and color pattern. The genitalia of both sexes, however, offer
										striking and constant characters for specific distinction. Male: Size larger
										than pusillus. Head with interocular space about as wide as
										first antennal joint. Prosternal spine rather elongate, beyond base rather
										slender, cylindrical, scarcely tapering to the bluntly rounded apex. Supra-anal
										plate elongate, shield-shaped, with surface longitudinally trisulcate, the
										lateral margins moderately reflexed and with two small, elongate, longitudinal
										convexities proximo-laterad of the small projecting apex. Cerci specialized,
										distinctive (Fig. 117, e.) Subgenital plate as described in
										key. Female.--Larger than male, larger than in pusillus.
										Interocular space broader than in male, prosternal spine heavier and shorter.
										Ovipositor valves elongate; the dorsal pair with disto-dorsal declivity brief to
										the blunted apical tooth; the ventral pair with disto-lateral and apical tooth
										blunted, the portion beyond the disto-lateral tooth very brief. Length of body,
										♂, 14.2--16.2, ♀, 19.5--21.5;  of antennæ, ♂,
										5.3--6.2, ♀, 6.5--7.2; of pronotum, ♂, 2.3--2.6, ♀, 3--3.1; of hind femora, ♂,
										6.8--7.9, ♀, 9.4--9.7 mm." (Hebard.)
								

								Described from 17 males and 12 females taken at DeFuniak Springs, Fla., Aug. 30,
									1915, in a "boggy area of wire-grass and bog plants which was not over 15 yards
									wide by 40 yards long." While the general facies of this species is almost exactly
									that of pusillus, it is very distinct by the characters given in
									key and description, and shown in Fig. 117. Although Hebard, as quoted above,
									states that morsei is larger than pusillus, R.
									& H. have recorded (1907, 294; 1916, 207) specimens of the latter from Pablo
									and Atlantic Beach, Fla., measuring, males, 15.3, and females, 22.6 mm. in length
									of body.
							

							
								II. CAMPYLACANTHA
									Scudder, 1897a, 198. (Gr., "bent" + "spine.")

								Short, robust, moderately compressed species, having the head rather prominent,
									especially so in male, the occiput arched and elevated above the pronotum;
									fastigium strongly declivent, widened and feebly concave in front of eyes; face
									subvertical, frontal costa shallowly sulcate, widest just above the antennæ, its
									sides thence feebly converging to clypeus; eyes of medium size, not prominent;
									interocular space subequal to, male, or one-half wider, female, than the greatest
									width of frontal costa; antennæ rather stout, more than half the length of body,
									male, longer than head and pronotum together, female; disk of pronotum longer and
									with sides more parallel in male than in female, median carina very low, usually
									cut by only the principal sulcus; prozona one-half longer than metazona, feebly
									tectiform, slightly rugulose, its front margin truncate; metazona nearly flat,
									distinctly rugose, its hind margin obtusely angulate; lateral carinæ absent;
									prosternal spine short, conical, obtuse, slightly inclined backward; front and
									middle femora swollen in male; hind tibiæ with 9-10 spines on outer margin;
									abdomen of male feebly enlarged at apex, the subgenital plate terminating in a
									small tubercle. Five species are known, all from the western United States, one of
									which ranges eastward into our territory.

								
									140. CAMPYLACANTHA OLIVACEA
										(Scudder), 1875b, 472. Olive-green Locust.

									General color bright olive-green, varying occasionally to pale brown or even
										fuscous; occiput usually with a darker green median stripe broadening behind,
										and this often enclosing a median yellowish line, side of head, and sometimes
										the face tinged with yellow; antennæ green at base, orange at middle, the tips
										dusky. Pronotum irregularly flecked with short yellow dashes. Legs
										greenish-yellow, the front and middle femora in part dull orange. Tegmina green,
										ovate-lanceolate, generally reaching middle of 
										abdomen, sometimes to apical fourth, their inner margins feebly overlapping.
										Supra-anal plate of male triangular, its apex acute-angled, the basal two-thirds
										with a distinct median groove between two feebly converging elevated ridges.
										Cerci straight, suberect, shorter than supra-anal plate, feebly tapering and
										somewhat falcate, the apical half less than half as wide as base and slightly
										sulcate on outer face (Fig. 118, a.) Length of body, ♂,
										21--23, ♀, 28--31; of antennæ, ♂ and ♀, 10.5; of tegmina, ♂, 8.5--10, ♀, 10--14;
										of hind femora, ♂, 13.5--16.3, ♀, 17.5--20 mm.
								

								This olive-green locust is not known from either Indiana or Florida, but is
									recorded from Illinois and Georgia, and is in the Davis collection from
									Mississippi. Specimens at hand are from Lincoln, Neb., Fayetteville, Ark., Marcy,
									Okla., and Bosque Co., Texas; Sept. 5--Oct. 28. Ranges from Illinois and Georgia
									west to Nebraska and southeastern Colorado, and southwest through Kansas and
									Oklahoma to Fort Worth, Texas. In Illinois Hart found it moderately common in
									August on the grassy dunes near Havana and Meredosia and states (1907, 233) that
									it is "abundant on the lance-leaved ragweed, Ambrosia
										bidentata Michx., on the dry soils of the Illinoisan glaciation across
									southern Illinois." He also records C. acutipennis Scudd. from
									that State, but this record is based upon dark grayish examples of olivacea as C. acutipennis is only a color variety of
									that species.
								R. & H. (1916, 207) record the finding of one adult and numerous
									nymphs near Macon, Ga., on July 31. There they occurred in thick grasses and weeds
									along the edges of woods. They state that the young could be readily distinguished
									from other Locustid nymphs by their striking whitish antennæ annulate with dark
									brown, these colors greatly fading in the dried specimens.
								
									Fig. 118. Extremities of male abdomens of genera of Melanopli showing the form
										of cerci, etc. X 4. a, Campylacantha olivacea; b, Eotettix
											signatus; c, Podisma glacialis; d, Podisma variegate; e, Aptenopedes
											sphenarioides. (After Scudder.)
								
								Scudder says that in Texas Belfrage found C. olivacea
									frequently sitting on the fences in autumn. Bruner (1897) states that
									in Nebraska it occurs upon sunflowers, Helianthus, pigweed, Chenopodium, and beets. Of its occurrence in Arkansas, Oklahoma
									and Texas, Morse (1907, 44) has written: "This species, with its
									color variety, acutipennis, is a widely distributed and often
									locally very common locust, occurring among weeds in fields, along fence-rows and
									woodland edges. The green form very greatly outnumbers the gray, though the latter
									is by no means  uncommon. It matures late, young
									being common until September, and the adults even seem relatively soft bodied, and
									usually discolor to a dull brown in drying. It is very sluggish, relying upon its
									protective coloration rather than activity, to escape destruction."
							

							
								III. EOTETTIX
									Scudder, 1897a, 198. (Gr., "eastern" +  "grasshopper.")

								Small or median sized species, having the body slender, elongate, feebly
									compressed; head short but rather large and prominent; vertex narrow between the
									eyes, the fastigium slightly declivent, broadening and more or less sulcate or
									concave in front of them; face slightly oblique; frontal costa about as wide as
									the interocular space, shallowly sulcate, with sides usually feebly converging
									below the antennæ, slightly narrowed near vertex; antennæ feebly flattened,
									slightly, female, or distinctly, male, longer than head and pronotum together;
									eyes large, prominent, longer than the cheek below them; pronotum with disk feebly
									tectiform, prozona smooth, metazona finely rugose, its hind margin broadly
									obtuse-angulate, median carina distinct, rather sharp; tegmina less than half the
									length of abdomen, broad, their inner margins usually meeting; hind femora
									reaching tip of abdomen, female, distinctly surpassing it, male; hind tibiæ with
									11--12 spines on outer margin; abdomen of male compressed; furcula distinct; cerci
									styliform. Three species51
									are known, all from the Southern Atlantic States.

								
									KEY TO SPECIES OF EOTETTIX.

									a. Hind tibiæ red; tegmina oval or ovate-lanceolate, their inner margins
										meeting or feebly overlapping.
									b. Tegmina ovate-lanceolate, as long as or longer than pronotum, their
										tips acute or obtusely-angulate; apex of supra-anal plate of male bluntly
										rounded; larger, length of body, male 18 or more mm. 141. SIGNATUS.
									bb. Tegmina oval, shorter than pronotum, their tips rounded; apex of
										supra-anal plate acutely rounded; smaller, length of body, male, not over 16 mm.
											142. PALUSTRIS.
									aa. Hind tibiæ greenish-yellow; tegmina subcircular or broadly ovate,
										shorter than pronotum, their inner edges not attingent; still smaller, length of
										body, male 10--12 mm. 143. PUSILLUS.
								

								
									141. EOTETTIX SIGNATUS
										Scudder, 1897, 54.

									Size medium, robust for the genus, the females distinctly the larger. Pale
										bluish-green fading to greenish-yellow, shining; face and vertex marked with
										fuscous; side of head with a narrow, postocular shining black
								

								51The Eotettix davisi and E. quercicola
									Hebard (1918, 153, 156) have been placed in the Scudderi
										Group of the genus Melanoplus.




								

								
									bar, this extending back along the upper third of pronotal lateral lobe, and
										bordered above and below with a bluish-white line; antennæ dull yellow, dusky
										toward tips; tegmina pale brown with a greenish tinge; hind femora grass-green,
										knees greenish-yellow; hind tibiæ pale red, the spines with tips black; dorsum
										of abdomen bluish-green, each segment in male with three or four black dots.
										Head wider than pronotum; fastigium with a rather deep, median groove, male, or
										concavity, female, feebly declivent; frontal costa widest just above the
										ocellus, where it is as wide as the interocular space, male, or two-thirds as
										wide, female. Disk of pronotum with sides parallel; median carina cut only by
										the principal sulcus; prozona nearly twice as long as metazona, male, one-third
										longer than metazona, female. Tegmina as described in key. Front and middle
										femora enlarged in male. Supra-anal plate of male triangular, the basal half
										with a pair of converging ridges enclosing a deep longitudinal groove; furcula
										consisting of a pair of oblong, divergent blunt projections; cerci tapering
										regularly to an acute point, as long as supra-anal plate (Fig. 118, b); subgenital plate longer than broad, terminating in a small rounded
										tubercle. Length of body, ♂, 18--21, ♀, 25--28; of pronotum, ♀, 4.7--5, ♀, 6--7;
										of tegmina, ♂, 6--6.5, ♀, 6.5--8; of hind femora, ♂, 11.5--13, ♀, 14.5--18
										mm.
								

								Hastings and Dunedin, Fla., Aug. 23--Dec. 11 (W. S. B.). The
									Dunedin specimens were taken in tall grass on the bed of an old lake, Oct.
									24--Dec. 11, mating on the latter date. Scudder's type was from eastern Florida,
									and it is known only from that State, having been recorded from various points
									between Jacksonville, Lakeland and Pine Island. It occurs mainly in moist grassy
									places in open pine woods and along the edges of hammocks, is nowhere common, and
									in life is one of the most handsome of the Melanopli. At Homestead and Detroit it
									was found by R. & H. in July in the prairie-like everglades and about
									pot-holes in the pine woods. They record females from Atlantic Beach measuring
									30.6 mm. in length of body, while at Homestead the smaller females were but 19.5
									mm.

								
									142. EOTETTIX PALUSTRIS
										Morse, 1904a, 7. Swamp Eastern Locust.

									Intermediate in size between signatus and pusillus. Pale yellowish-green, brown above and on tegmina, with fuscous
										postocular stripe as in signatus. Disk of pronotum more tectiform than there.
										Furcula more elongate and less divergent than in signatus. Subgenital plate
										narrower and more pointed. Other differences as given in key. Length of body,
										♂;, 15--15.5, ♀, 21.5; of antennæ, ♂, 8, ♀, 9; of pronotum, ♂, 4, ♀, 5--6; of
										tegmina, ♂, 2--2.8, ♀, 3.5--4 mm.
								

								Live Oak, Fla., Aug. 10 (Morse). Known only from Live Oak and
									Gainesville, Fla., the former being the type locality. There it was found by
										Morse (1904, 40) in the scrubby undergrowth of palmettoes and
									bushes in the damper spots of the pine woods. At Gainesville ten specimens were
									taken August 16 by R. & H. (1907) "in the rank vegetation around
									a flooded sink hole in pine woods."



								

								
									143. EOTETTIX PUSILLUS
										Morse, 1904a, 7. Little Eastern Locust.

									Short, rather robust. Pale yellowish-green, the dorsal surface and tegmina
										brownish; upper third of prozonal lateral lobes, upper sides of hind knees, tips
										of hind tibiæ, tibial spines, and tarsal claws, piceous-black; the entire body
										in life suffused with a metallic velvety lustre which mostly disappears in dried
										specimens. Head wider than pronotum; frontal costa above the antennæ four-fifths
										the width of interocular area, abruptly narrowed below the ocellus to two-thirds
										of its width above. Eyes very prominent. Pronotum relatively shorter than in the
										other species, its disk feebly tectiform; median carina sharp; prozona one-third
										longer than metazona, the latter finely rugose. Tegmina as described in key. Tip
										of male abdomen upcurved; supra-anal plate triangular, as broad at base as long,
										the median basal groove very short; furcula as in palustris;
										cerci slightly shorter than the supra-anal plate, awl-shaped, their tips acute.
										Length of body, ♂, 10--12, ♀, 15.5--20; of antennæ, ♂ and ♀, 8--8.5; of
										pronotum, ♂, 3.5, ♀, 4.5--5; of tegmina, ♂, 1.7--2, ♀, 3--3.3; of hind femora,
										♂, 7.5--8, ♀, 9.5--11 mm.
								

								Denmark, S. Car., Aug. 15 (Morse). This, the pygmy of the
									genus, and one of the smallest of Acridians, has been taken in Florida only at
									Live Oak, Aug. 26, by R. & H. It was described from Waycross, Ga., and
									Denmark, S. Car., and is known also from Fayetteville, N. Car., and several points
									in South Carolina and Georgia. It occurs principally on wire-grass in open pine
									and oak woods and seems to be scarce wherever found. The nymphs are said by R.
									& H. to be "blackish, overlaid with mars orange, the latter color forming a
									pale postocular stripe and strongly indicated over the face and the distal portion
									of the caudal femora."
							

							
								IV. HESPEROTETTIX
									Scudder, 1876a, 262. (Gr., "western" + "grasshopper.")

								Small to median locusts, the sexes not differing greatly in size. They have the
									sides nearly parallel; head small; vertex opposite middle of eyes very narrow,
									often but little wider than second joint of antennæ; face but little oblique,
									frontal costa usually narrow, sulcate throughout, punctate; antennæ of female a
									little shorter than or equalling head and pronotum together, of male a fourth
									longer, the joints slightly flattened; eyes rather small, longer than the cheek
									below them; pronotum longer than in allied genera except Paroxya, the prozona usually half as long again as metazona, the sides of
									disk broadly sloping; median carina low, not cut by the first and second sulci;
									hind margin very obtusely angulate or broadly rounded; lateral lobes of pronotum
									with front and hind margins nearly straight, oblique, lower margin with its  front half directed upward; tegmina variable in
									length, in our eastern species usually shorter than abdomen; fore and middle
									femora of male swollen; hind femora slender, surpassing abdomen in both sexes,
									strongly so in male; subgenital plate of male entire, but with a small subapical
									tubercle; furcula present as distinct projecting lobes; valves of ovipositor
									strongly exserted.
								Scudder (1897, 56) recognized eight species of Hesperotettix from the United States and Mexico. Kirby (1910,
										498) accredits 12 species to the genus. Two more have been recently
									described by Hebard. Of the 14 nominal species, five species and one variety are
									recognized from the Eastern States.

								
									KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF HESPEROTETTIX.

									a. Prozona of pronotum smooth or very sparsely punctate, nowhere
										rugulose; metazona punctate; disk of pronotum feebly tectiform.
									b. Tegmina fully twice or nearly twice as long as pronotum.
									c. Dorsal face of hind femora without dark bars; larger, length of body,
										male, 15.5--18.5 mm.
									d. Hind margin of metazona broadly rounded; prosternal spine short,
										stout, conical; tegmina and wings abbreviated, covering about two-thirds of
											abdomen.144. BREVIPENNIS.
									dd. Hind margin of metazona obtuse-angulate; prosternal spine longer,
										more slender, subcylindrical, its tip rounded; tegmina and wings usually
										surpassing the abdomen, male, only reaching its tip, female.145. PRATENSIS.
									cc. Dorsal face of hind femora (in living specimens) with two faint dark
										cross-bars; smaller, length of body, male, 14.5--15.5 mm.; hind margin of
										metazona and length of tegmina as in pratensis.145a. GEMMICULA.
									bb. Tegmina shorter than pronotum; hind femora without dark cross-bars.
											146. OSCEOLA.
									aa. Prozona and metazona both on disk and lateral lobes distinctly
										rugulose; pronotum more obviously, not strongly, tectiform.
									e. Tegmina elongate, three to five times as long as broad, their inner
										edges overlapping. 147. SPECIOSUS.
									ee. Tegmina ovate, at most one and a half times as long as broad, their
										inner edges scarcely meeting and dorsal and lateral areas not defined. 148. FLORIDENSIS.
								

								
									144. HESPEROTETTIX BREVIPENNIS
										(Thomas), 1874, 67. Northern Purple-striped Locust.
									Small, rather stout, not strongly compressed. General color pea-green;
										median carina of pronotum and a narrow stripe along only the outer margin of
										dorsal area of tegmina, purplish-red; femora and apical third of hind tibiæ more
										or less suffused with the same hue; antennæ pale red, the tips darker; a short
										stripe below the eye, a broad one on upper third of prozonal lateral lobe, a
										spot on vertex, sides of knees and sometimes in part the outer face of hind
										femora, fuscous. Fastigium very slightly concave in front of eyes and with a
										minute concavity between  them. Frontal costa
										narrow, feebly constricted below the ocellus, deeply sulcate throughout, male,
										wider, more shallowly sulcate only below the antennæ, female. Prozona with
										median carina more distinct than on metazona, its surface sparsely and coarsely
										punctate, metazona rather finely and densely punctate. Tegmina usually
										overlapping except near base, their tips rounded and discoidal and dorsal areas
										distinctly defined by the rather coarse ulnar veins. Supra-anal plate of male
										triangular, its lateral halves and apical third irregularly concave, the basal
										third with a median triangular groove lying between two low converging ridges.
										Furcula consisting of a pair of short sub-rounded lobes lying within the basal
										groove of supra-anal plate. Cerci shorter than supra-anal plate, conical,
										strongly tapering from the broad basal to apical third, their tips blunt. Length
										of body, ♂, 15.5--17, ♀, 20--24; of antennæ, ♂, 7.3--8.5, ♀, 6.3-7.2; of
										pronotum, ♂, 5, ♀, 5.5--6; of tegmina, ♂, 7.6--10, ♀, 9.7--11.7; of hind femora,
										♂, 9.5--10.5, ♀, 11.8--12.7 mm.
								

								Wellesley, Mass., July 10--Aug. 8 (Morse). This handsome little
									locust is not known from either Indiana or Florida, but occurs in the coastwise
									states from Massachusetts southwest to Alabama. In New England it has so far been
									recorded only from Wellesley, Dover and Walpole, Mass. Of its occurrence there
										Morse (1898, 272) says: "This is one of our rarer locusts, and with
									its delicately contrasted tints of green and purple, is one of our daintiest and
									most attractively colored species. It is usually captured by sweeping vigorously
									the short tufted growth of beard-grass, Andropogon scoparius
									Michx., which, with other wild grasses and running blackberry vines, sparsely
									clothe the thin soil of the gravel plain formations on which it is found."
								In New Jersey it was first recorded as inhabiting cranberry bogs, but Rehn
										(1909a) considers its occurrence in these bogs as accidental, stating
									that individuals taken near Stafford's Forge, Aug. 12--Sept. 5, were found "only
									in a small area of huckleberry and sweet fern barrens on the edge of pine
									forests." Fox (1914, 509) mentions a number of stations where it has
									been taken in New Jersey, stating that it is almost entirely restricted to the
									Pine Barrens where it frequents low scrub and undergrowth. In Virginia, Georgia
									and Alabama it occurs very sparingly in mountainous or hilly regions. R.
										& H. (1916, 210) state that their speimens "were taken in bunch grass
										Cyperus, particularly where this was plentiful on open slopes,
									and in the luxuriant mountain undergrowth of grasses, vines and oak sprouts, under
									a low forest predominant in black-jack oak."

								
									145. HESPEROTETTIX PRATENSIS
										Scudder, 1897, 64. Meadow Purple-striped Locust.

									Slightly larger, the males more slender and more compressed, than in brevipennis. Color much as there, the face often purplish-brown
										or if  green, with a row of purplish dots along
										each side of frontal costa. Median fuscous stripe of occiput and vertex more
										often complete and with a median thread of yellow. Tegmina with entire dorsal
										area purplish-red. Hind femora more strongly tinged with purplish. Differs
										structurally from brevipennis in having the fastigium in front
										of eyes with a rather deep median sulcus, male, or distinct concavity, female.
										Pronotum slightly longer and more narrow, the metazona less flaring and with
										hind margin distinctly but broadly obtuse-angulate. Tegmina and prosternal spine
										different as described in key, the inner edges of the former overlapping their
										full length. Supra-anal plate of male with margins and median basal ridges much
										higher than in brevipennis, where the margins are scarcely at
										all raised and the ridges but feebly so. Cerci narrower at base, more regularly
										tapering from base to apex (Pl. III, a.) Length of body, ♂,
										17--18.5, ♀, 24--30; of antennæ, ♂, 8--8.3, ♀, 9--10.2; of pronotum, ♂, 4.5--5,
										♀, 6--6.5; of tegmina, ♂, 12--13, ♀, 17--20; of hind femora, ♂, 11--11.6, ♀,
										13.5--16 mm. (Fig. 119.)
								

								In Indiana this dainty and prettily colored species has been noted only in Lake
									County, where it has been taken in two localities. On September 19, 1898, a single
									pair were secured from the long grasses bordering the margin of a swale north of
									Millers. Though careful search was made there and elsewhere in the northern
									counties, no others were secured until July 24, 1902, when they were found to be
									rather common in a long, low, marshy tract, a mile southeast of Hammond. Here the
									males were especially active, leaping from one grass stem to another several times
									in succession, and dodging around the stem the instant they clasped it with their
									legs. The females were oftentimes easily picked up by the fingers. No attempt was
									made by either sex to use the wings in escaping.
								
									Fig. 119. Female, natural size. (After Lugger.)
								
								In Florida H. pratensis has been recorded only from Carrabelle,
									Fort Barrancas, Warrington and Live Oak in the northern third of the State.
										Morse (1904, 16) says that in this region it is not uncommon in
									August along the Gulf shore among the xerophytic strand vegetation; while at Live
									Oak it was found by R. & H. among wire grass and other low plants in small
									clumps of dwarf oaks on the border of a sink.
								After a careful comparison of numerous examples of H. pratensis
									from Indiana, Iowa and Nebraska with those of typical brevipennis from New England, I cannot agree with Morse and R. & H.
									that it is only a long-winged form of the latter species. Aside from the
									difference in wing length, which may be, and probably is a variable character, the
									other structural and color differences pointed out in the key and description are
									constant in the  series at hand, and are undoubtedly
									of sufficient importance to retain it as a valid species, especially if characters
									of less importance are held sufficient to separate other species of the genus.
								The range of H. pratensis is a wide one, extending from Indiana
									and Florida, east of the Mississippi River, north and west to Minnesota,
									Washington and California, and southwest to Texas and Orizaba, Mexico. Hart
									records it from several localities in Illinois, principally from swales among the
									sand ridges of the northwestern portion. It is not recorded from Canada and
									appears to be scarce in Minnesota where, as in northwestern Indiana, it is found
									associated with Melanoplus angustipennis (Dodge.)

								
									145a. HESPEROTETTIX PRATENSIS GEMMICULA
										Hebard, 1918, 158. Little Gem Locust.

									"Male--Size small for the genus, form slender. Medio-longitudinal dorsal
										band of pronotum not solidly pink, the median portion distinctly paler than the
										margins. Dark bar of prozonal lateral lobes solid in coloration, the ventral
										border of this bar white and about equally broad. Tegmina and wings fully
										developed, extending nearly to apices of caudal femora; rarely only to apex of
										abdomen. Tegmina distinctively colored; dorsal and lateral fields green except
										for a broad longitudinal humeral band of pink. Genitalia of the same general
										type as in pratensis and brevipennis, cerci
										alone differing in being narrow and of subequal width in distal half, moderately
										incurved in this portion with apex sharply rounded. Prosternal spine shorter and
										stouter than in brevipennis, tapering more rapidly in distal
										portion to the sharply rounded apex. Caudal femora green, the pregenicular
										pinkish annulus distinct; dorsal surface pale green with two weak but distinct
										broad transverse bands of darker green, and showing no trace of pink along the
										external margin as in brevipennis; external surface green,
										never washed with pink as in brevipennis. Length of body, ♂,
										14.5--15.5, ♀, 16.8--23.3; of pronotum, ♂, 3.6--4.1, ♀, 4.1--5.7; of tegmina, ♂,
										9.7--13, ♀, 11.4--15.5; of hind femora, ♂, 8.8--10.4, ♀, 10.2--12.8 mm." (Hebard.)
								

								Big Bayou, near Pensacola and Carrabelle, Fla., Aug. 28--Sept. 2 (Hebard). The above are the salient points of the original description. The
									dried specimens at Philadelphia show only a faint trace of the dark bands on
									dorsal face of hind femora. The hind margin of metazona is obtusely angled as in
										pratensis, and the length of tegmina much as there. The size
									and color, are, however, more nearly those of brevipennis, the
									maximum length of gemmicula male, being the same as the minimum
									of male brevipennis, while the length of the females of the two
									species are approximately equal.
								I regard gemmicula, therefore, as only a small color variety of
										pratensis, differing slightly in form of cerci and prosternal
									spine.  This opinion is the more enhanced by the
									fact that pratensis has been taken in the same region by Morse,
									who states (1907, 12) that "the Florida examples of H. pratensis
									present a distinctly different type of coloration--one seen in some California
									series of the species. They are also of small size like them but differ in having
									much longer tegmina and wings. H. pratensis as it stands to-day
									should be regarded as a variable and complex species represented in different
									parts of the country by several more or less distinct varieties." It is possible
									that a large series of all three forms will show that gemmicula
									is the real connecting link between brevipennis and pratensis, and that all three are only variable extremes of one widely
									distributed species which will bear the name brevipennis.
								Hebard states that "the species is peculiar to very sandy areas; at Big Bayou it
									was found occasionally in a bushy low sand-loving plant, at Pensacola very scarce
									among the undergrowth of scant grasses and sand-loving plants in forest of
									long-leaf and small sand-pines. At Carrabelle very few were taken through the low
									bushes of the sand dune areas, which are covered heavily with arenicolous shrubs
									and bushes and some scrubby pine and oaks. Only with particular effort was it
									possible to secure the series. Heavy beating was found to be the most productive
									method."

								
									146. HESPEROTETTIX OSCEOLA
										Hebard, 1918, 161.

									Male--Larger and slightly more robust than in gemmicula.
										Dark bar of prozonal lateral lobe narrow, solid in coloration, its lower border
										white, as broad, or twice as broad as the bar itself. Hind femora green without
										dorsal dark bars or pink suffusion, the pinkish annulus near knee broad and
										distinct. Tegmina usually appreciably shorter than pronotum, rarely very
										slightly longer, feebly overlapping; their form broad ovate, the dorsal field
										distinctly defined from lateral one. Tegmina colored as in gemmicula. Genitalia as there, the cerci in the narrow distal portion
										with margins feeble convex. Furcula visible as small subquadrate projections.
										Basal half of supra-anal plate higher than the apical portion; pallium not
										conical and elevated as in gemmicula. Female--Size much
										larger, form more robust. Medio-dorsal stripe of pronotum decidedly broader,
										pale with very dark margins, continued on abdomen to near its apex. Length of
										body, ♂, 16.1--18.5, ♀, 21.4--24.5; of pronotum, ♂, 4.2--3.7, ♀, 5.1--5.7; of
										tegmina, ♂, 3.8--4, ♀, 4.7--5.8; of hind femora, ♂, 11.7, ♀, 13.2--15 mm.
								

								Ocala and DeLeon Springs, Fla., Sept. 8--20; two males, four females taken by R.
									& H. "The species was exceedingly scarce, very long search on four days having
									been made to secure the six examples. Like gemmicula it was
									found peculiar to very sandy areas. At DeLeon Springs one individual was beaten
									from a  dwarf oak in a wide sand scrub area, the
									other from dwarf oaks, bay cedar and other bushes more than a mile distant in the
									sand scrub. At Ocala the four specimens were secured in sandy flatwoods by beating
									the undergrowth, which was composed of a leguminous plant and bunch grass. The
									coloration and color pattern of this insect shows no important differences from
									that of gemmicula. It is possible that it may eventually prove
									to be a geographical race of that species, but we have no evidence of this as
									yet." (Hebard.)
								A study of the type series at Philadelphia leads me to believe this a disinct and
									valid species.

								
									147. HESPEROTETTIX SPECIOSUS
										(Scudder), 1872, 250.

									Size large and form robust for the genus. Grass green, fading to
										yellowish-green in dried specimens, the tegmina and hind tibiæ alone retaining
										the original hue; median carina of pronotum and outer upper face and ring near
										knees of hind femora usually purplish- or pinkish-red; antennæ pale red, dusky
										toward tip; abdomen and inner surface of hind femora pale yellow; hind tibiæ
										green, the spines paler tipped with black. Vertex and occiput more or less
										rugulose; fastigium feebly concave in front of eyes, the concavity almost
										continuous with sulcus of frontal costa, male, separated by a rounded convexity
										of the costa, female. Frontal costa wider than in preceding species, deeply
										sulcate below the antennæ, female, throughout, male. Pronotum with median carina
										low; prozona one-fourth longer than metazona, female, one-half longer, male;
										hind margin broadly obtuse-angulate. Tegmina covering two-thirds to
										three-fourths of abdomen. Supra-anal plate elongate, triangular, its sides low,
										feebly sinuate; its basal half with a rather deep median sulcus between two
										converging ridges which diverge, usually without merging, beyond the middle,
										thus forming another sulcus on apical third; furcula very short, triangular
										lobes. Cerci as long as supra-anal plate, their basal halves broad, strongly
										tapering, apical ones slender, incurved. Apical tubercle of subgenital plate
										broad, prominent, conical, its apex truncate or feebly bifid. Length of body, ♂,
										22--24, ♀, 31--34; of antennæ, ♂, 10, ♀, 11.5; of pronotum, ♂, 6--6.5, ♀, 8--9;
										of tegmina, ♂, 9--13, ♀, 16--18.5; of hind femora, ♂, 14--14.5, ♀, 18--19 mm.
										(Fig.120.)
								
								
									Fig. 120. Female, natural size. (After Bruner.)
								

								Sylvia, Kan.; Caddo and Foss, Okla. July 17--Aug. 8 (Davis). A
									species of western and southwestern range, known east of the Mississippi only from
									the records of Hart (1907, 233) who reports it as occurring in August
									and September, with Campylacantha olivacea Scudd. on the grassy
									dunes near Havana and on the dry soils of southern Illinois. It ranges from
									southern Illinois west  to Colorado and Montana and
									south and southwest to Texas and New Mexico. Somes (1914, 71) records
									a single pair from Mahtomedi, Minn., and states that in Muscatine Co., Iowa, just
									across the river from Illinois, he had taken it in numbers on dry sandy soil.
										Bruner (1897, 135) says that speciosus is quite
									common over the entire State of Nebraska, but more common southward, where it has
									been known to occur in sufficient numbers to do some harm to growing crops; while
										Gillette (1904, 40) states that it occurs throughout eastern
									Colorado to the foothills, sometimes to a height of 6,000 feet. He gives its
									native food plants as sunflower (Helianthus) and a closely
									related Composite, Iva xanthifolia Nutt., and adds: "As this
									grasshopper feeds entirely upon native weeds it cannot be considered of economic
									importance."

								
									148. HESPEROTETTIX FLORIDENSIS
										Morse, 1901b, 130. Florida Purple-striped Locust.

									Smaller and more slender than H. speciosus. Grass-green,
										yellowish beneath, drying to dull yellow; front faces of fore and middle femora
										and upper outer face of hind femora usually, and median carina of pronotum
										rarely, purplish-red; hind tibiæ bluish-green, the spines tipped with black.
										Pronotum more finely rugulose, its median carina lower, hind margin broadly
										rounded. Tegmina as described in key. Supra-anal plate of male, with median
										basal groove oblong, ending at middle; a cross carina near middle of plate
										dividing its upper surface into four concavities. Furcula very short, narrow,
										widely divergent lobes situated one on each base of the median ridges. Cerci
										more slender than in speciosus, twice as long as their basal
										width, their tips acute, not incurved. Valves of ovipositor slender, the dorsal
										and ventral scoops elongate. Length of body, ♂, 17.5--21, ♀, 24--30; of antennæ,
										♂ and ♀, 8--10; of tegmina, ♂, 4.5--6, ♀, 5--7; of hind femora, ♂, 11.5--13, ♀,
										15--16 mm.
								

								Hastings, Fla., Aug. 22. Known only from Florida and Georgia, Hastings being the
									type locality. Elsewhere in Florida it is recorded only from Pablo Beach and San
									Pablo, Aug. 13 (R. & H., 1907), where it was
									found among grasses in marshy spots in the palmetto scrub and along a railway
									ditch, and from DeFuniak Springs, Oct. 17 (Davis,
										1915). In Georgia it has been taken by R. & H. (1916,
										210) at Augusta, Warm Springs, Suwannee Creek and Homerville, July
									29--Aug. 28. They state that "it acts in an unusual manner when pursued, hiding on
									the under side of leaves of low plants with only feet, antennæ and eyes showing
									from above. It was taken among huckleberry, strawberry and other low plants in a
									sandy scrub oak area and on low open land covered with wire-grass, low bushes and
									saw palmetto."
							



							

							
								V. DENDROTETTIX
									Riley,52 1893,
										254. (Gr., "tree" + "grasshopper.")

								Species of moderate size and robust form, having the head large, broad; eyes
									small, prominent, widely separated, no longer than the cheeks below them;
									fastigium much widened, strongly declivent and shallowly but distinctly concave in
									front of eyes, its sides continuous with those of frontal costa; face distinctly,
									not strongly oblique; frontal costa rather wide, low, shallowly sulcate, feebly
									constricted, its margins slightly converging below the ocellus; antennæ slender,
									about half the length of body in both sexes; pronotum short, its apical fourth
									flaring, rugose and upturned to receive the broad head; metazona much shorter and
									slightly wider than prozona, its surface rather strongly rugose-punctate, hind
									margin truncate or broadly rounded; lateral lobes with transverse sulci deep, the
									second and third feebly cutting the low interrupted median carina; tegmina
									variable in form and length; prosternal spine short, stout, subconical; hind
									femora slender, slightly shorter than abdomen, female, feebly surpassing its tip,
									male; hind tibiæ very hirsute, their marginal spines long; end of male abdomen not
									enlarged, subgenital plate scoop-shaped, its apex bluntly rounded; supra-anal
									plate long, triangular, with the usual median basal lengthwise ridges enclosing a
									shallow sulcus.

								
									KEY TO SPECIES OF DENDROTETTIX.

									a. Cerci of male oblong, twice as long as wide, their apical halves
										twisted, depressed, with tips blunt; inner and lower faces of hind femora dark
										blood-red. 149. QUERCUS.
									aa. Cerci styliform, tapering strongly and regularly from a broad base
										to a point; inner and lower faces of hind femora greenish-yellow, the former
										with two black bars. 150. SCUDDERI.
								

								
									149. DENDROTETTIX QUERCUS
										Packard, 1890, 214. Post Oak Locust.

									General color yellow or greenish-yellow varied with piceous. Face yellow;
										occiput with variable black markings, usually with a black median stripe;
										antennæ yellow with dusky markings; side of head with a postocular black bar,
										widening on the prozona, where it covers the upper half of lateral lobe;
										metazona usually greenish-yellow; median carina and transverse sulci usually
										black. Tegmina dull brownish-yellow. Sides of 
								

								52Caudell
										(I915a) gives reasons why this genus should be accredited to Packard,
									that author (1890, 214) having published a description copied verbatim from
										Bruner (1887, 19) of the nymphs under the name of "Dendrotettix quercus Riley Ms." In this copied description Packard makes
									no mention whatever of generic characters, and the description of the nymphs is
									based almost wholly upon color, the only structural characters mentioned being:
									"The pupæ average almost an inch in length and are rather robust in form, with
									short broad head and powerful jaws," terms which could be properly applied to the
									last stage nymphs of a score or more of Acrididæ. Following strictly the rules of
									priority Caudell may be correct, but from a common sense point of view, I believe
									that to Riley, who first gave a name to the genus (Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash.
										1888, 86), and later (loc. cit. above) a full diagnosis of
									its characters, should belong the generic name, while to Packard, who described
									the nymphs, as above stated, should be accredited the species.


								

								
									adomen, pleuræ, knees and subgenital plate of male black. Outer face of hind
										femora dull greenish-yellow rarely with a broad fuscous cross-bar on basal and
										apical thirds; hind tibiæ greenish-yellow with a brighter yellow ring near base
										Tegmina usually abbreviated and no longer than pronotum with tips well rounded;
										sometimes (D. longipennis
										Riley, 1893, 255) fully developed, then extending beyond abdomen in
										both sexes, their apical halves very broad; the inner edges in both forms not
										meeting on basal third but in the long-winged one often overlapping beyond
										middle. Furcula very small, triangular projections lying on the bases of the
										median ridges. Other structural characters as above given. Length of body, ♂,
										24--25, ♀, 29--30; of antennæ, ♂, 14, ♀, 13; of tegmina, (long-winged), ♂,
										20--21, ♀, 22--23.5; of tegmina, (short-winged), ♂, 5, ♀, 6; of hind femora, ♂,
										12--13.5, ♀, 12--13 mm.
								

								Ridgeway and New Lisbon, N. J., July 17--Aug. 10 (Davis);
									Manor, Texas, July 15 (Caudell). East of the Mississippi this
									oak-inhabiting locust has been recorded only from Illinois, New Jersey and New
									York. The Illinois record by Bruner (1893, 15) is substantiated by
									specimens in the Urbana collection from Crete and Dubois. Davis
										(1912) has given an account of its occurrence about Ridgeway and
									Lakehurst, N. J., in 1910 and 1911, when they defoliated the oaks over large
									areas. He states that "the gayly colored grasshoppers were more common on the
									white oaks, though they ate the foliage of scarlet oaks and other members of the
									red oak group; as many as 40 of the insects were counted on the trunks of some
									trees, usually slowly making their way up to what remained of the foliage while
									the excrement of the grasshoppers already on the limbs fell with a rain-like
									patter onto the dry leaves beneath. Some of the grasshoppers were fully winged and
									others were apterous. In addition to the oaks we noted where they had devoured
									parts of the leaves of a sumach, Rhus copallina L." In 1912 not
									a trace of the locusts could be found about Lakehurst, but in 1914 a single pair
									were taken, and the same year a new outbreak was recorded by Caudell
										(1915a) as occurring near New Lisbon, N. J., about 17 miles from
									Lakehurst. Here the locust infested an area of approximately two square miles,
									some of the tallest oaks being nearly defoliated. No later record of their
									presence in New Jersey can be found. In 1912 a single male was taken at Yaphank,
									Long Island, N. Y., this being the only record from that State (Davis, 1915b). The locust was first probably accidentally
									introduced near Ridgeway, N. J., and for a year or two only found conditions
									favorable for a rapid increase, then was kept in check by natural causes until
									1914, when the second outbreak occurred at New Lisbon. The name D.
										longipennis
									Riley (1893, 255) is a synonym of D. quercus,
									having been given to the long-winged form.


								

								West of the Mississippi D. quercus ranges from Missouri,
									southern Iowa and southeastern Nebraska southwest to Washington and Travis
									counties, Texas. It was from these Texas localities that Bruner (1887,
										17) secured his specimens, all nymphs, and therefore not given a
									scientific name by him, he designating them only as the "Post Oak Locust of
									Washington Co., Texas." As noted above, Packard copied Bruner's article verbatim
									under the name "Dendrotettix quercus Riley Ms.," that name
									having been given the nymphs by Riley but unaccompanied by a description. Of the
									habits of the locust in Texas Bruner wrote: 
										"The egg pods are deposited in the ground about the bases of trees or
											indifferently scattered about the surface among the decaying leaves, etc.,
											like those of all other ground-laying species. The young commence hatching
											about the middle of March, and continue to appear until into April. After
											moulting the first time and becoming a little hardened, they immediately climb
											up the trunks of the trees and bushes of all kinds and commence feeding upon
											the new and tender foliage. The imago or mature stage is reached by the last
											of May or during the first part of June.
										"The species is very active and shy in all its stages of growth after leaving
											the egg. The larva and pupa run up the trunks and along the limbs of trees
											with considerable speed, and in this respect differ considerably from all
											other species of locusts with which I am acquainted. I am informed that the
											mature insects are also equally wild and fly like birds. They feed both by day
											and night; and I am told by those who have passed through the woods after
											night, when all else was quiet, that the noise produced by the grinding of
											their jaws was not unlike the greedy feeding of swine."
									
								

								
									150. DENDROTETTIX SCUDDERI
										(Morse), 1906, 120. Scudder's Tree Locust.

									Male--Slender, subcylindrical. General color grayish-brown; a broad shining
										black stripe each side extending from eye along the upper half of lateral lobes
										almost to end of abdomen, this bordered below on prozona with an irregular
										ivory-white spot; face and dorsum of abdomen dull yellow; hind femora with two
										broad oblique black bars on both inner and outer faces; knees fuscous; hind
										tibiæ olive-green, the spines wholly black. Frontal costa slightly narrower and
										more deeply sulcate than in quercus. Pronotum narrower and
										slightly longer; metazona less rugose, with median carina higher. Tegmina
										elongate-oval or sublanceolate, much narrower than in quercus,
										reaching only to base of third abdominal segment; separately by more than their
										greatest width, their tips rounded. Prosternal spine stouter, more oblique.
										Furcula subcylindrical, twice as long as those of quercus,
										widely divergent, their tips blunt. Female--Larger, more robust. Color above
										mixed olive-green, fuscous and brown, the inner and outer faces of hind femora
										dull cherry-red; beneath dull yellow. Occiput less convex, disk of pronotum less
										constricted, its sides more parallel and metazona more feebly punctate with hind
										margin more squarely truncate than in females of quercus.
										Tegmina much narrower, more widely separated. Upper valves of ovipositor with
										concavity or scoop of  dorsal surface much longer,
										their outer margins finely dentate, strongly sinuate. Length of body, ♂, 20, ♀,
										25; of pronotum, ♂, 4.8, ♀, 5; of tegmina, ♂, 3.5, ♀, 4; of hind femora, ♂, 11,
										♀, 12 mm.
								

								The above, the first description of the male, is drawn from an unique taken by
									Davis, July 2, 1919, along the Catamount Trail, at an elevation of about 2,500
									feet, near White Sulphur Springs, W. Va. The female described is in the U. S.
									National Museum collection and was taken by Fox, at a height of 4,000 feet on
									Sounding Knob, near Monterey, Va. It was found "on stony ground in the shrubby
									undergrowth of low open woods on the mountain side." Morse's unique type was a
									female taken on Cheawha Mountain, Ala., July 13, at a height of 2,300 feet, while
									sweeping grass and shrubbery in the vicinity of Pulpit Rock, near the extreme
									summit of the mountain. The three specimens mentioned and two males in the
									Philadelphia collections, taken by R. & H. near Bald Knob, Bath Co., Va., are
									all the individuals known of this handsome tree locust. It appears to be a
									subalpine, forest-loving species, ranging from Virginia to Alabama. Morse first
									described it (loc. cit.) as Podisma scudderi, then
										(Psyche, 1907, 57) changed the name to P.
										australis, as the name scudderi had been previously used
									in Podisma. It has since been found to belong to the genus Dendrotettix, and the original specific name is therefore
									restored.
							

							
								VI. PODISMA
									Latreille, 1829, 188. (Gr., "measuring by feet.")

								Medium or small, subcylindrical species, having the head little if any longer and
									but slightly wider than prozona; antennæ rarely longer than hind femora; fastigium
									not strongly widened, but feebly declivent in front of eyes; face subvertical;
									frontal costa low, not broader, usually much narrower, than the interocular area;
									eyes rather large, rarely prominent; prozona longer than metazona, sometimes twice
									as long, smooth or nearly so; median carina low, sometimes obsolete on prozona;
									lateral carinæ usually wanting; lateral lobes vertical, as long as deep, their
									lower margin sinuous, its hind angle broadly rounded; tegmina normally abbreviate,
									often wanting; prosternal spine short, stout, its tip bluntly rounded; interspace
									between the mesosternal lobes of male as wide as the lobes themselves, of female
									nearly twice as wide as long; abdomen compressed, carinate, female, subcylindrical
									with apex upcurved, male; subgenital plate of male with a distinct tubercle below
									the upper margin; cerci and furcula variable in the different species; valves of
									ovipositor narrow, strongly exserted.
								Kirby (1910, 533) accredits to this genus 31 species, 12 from  the United States, the others from the Old World. Of
									its distribution Scudder (1897, 97) says: "This genus is more widely
									extended than any other of the Melanopli, being the only one not confined to
									America. It is a distinctly boreal type and encircles the globe. The species are
									largely confined to high altitudes as well as high latitudes, a number being
									alpine or subalpine in their respective localities. In this country the species
									are known from two widely separated regions; in the west, the Rocky Mountain
									region from Alberta to northern New Mexico; and in the east from western Ontario
									and New York to Maine."
								Our eastern species have the tegmina wholly wanting while those found in the
									western states, with the exception of one, have them present but abbreviated, thus
									resembling closely many forms of the genus Melanoplus. Two
									species and one race or variety have been described from our territory.

								
									KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF PODISMA.

									a. Upper and outer faces of hind femora nearly uniform green, or the
										upper face faintly banded above; antennæ of male not longer than hind femora;
										front dorsal margin of thorax slightly but obviously rounded and feebly
										emarginate at middle.
									b. Antennæ distinctly shorter than hind femora, male, nearly
										three-fourths as long, female; upper face of hind femora without darker bars;
										cerci stouter, not obviously narrower at middle than at apex (Fig. 118, c.) 151. GLACIALIS.
									bb. Antennæ about as long, male, or five-sixths as long, female, as hind
										femora; upper face of hind femora faintly bifasciate with darker green; cerci
										longer, slightly narrower at middle than at apex or base. 151a.
												CANADENSIS.
									aa. Upper and outer faces of hind femora distinctly bifasciate with
										fuscous; antennæ of male one-fourth or more longer than hind femora; front
										dorsal margin of thorax squarely truncate; cerci of male very slender, strongly
										narrowed at middle. (Fig. 118, d.) 152. VARIEGATA.
								

								
									151. PODISMA GLACIALIS
										(Scudder), 1863, 630. Wingless Mountain Locust.

									Dark olivaceous green above, greenish-yellow beneath, sparsely clothed with
										erect hairs; often drying to dull reddish-brown. Head greenish-yellow, the face
										often with a darker streak, mouth parts paler. Pronotum dark green, the lower
										third of lateral lobes yellow bordered above by a shining black stripe extending
										back from eye but fainter on metazona and sides of abdomen, where it is broken
										to form quadrate blotches or short bars. Inner and lower faces of hind femora in
										great part coral-red. Hind tibiæ bluish-green, the spines black at tips. Vertex
										between the eyes as broad, male, or twice as broad, female, as the first
										antennal joint. Fastigium widened and sulcate, male, or very feebly concave,
										female, in front of eyes, its sides continuous with those of frontal costa. Face
										distinctly, not strongly, oblique; frontal costa as broad as interocular space,
										male,  much narrower, female, sulcate only below
										the antennæ, its sides often evanescent below the ocellus. Pronotum short,
										subcylindrical, its median carina evident but very low, cut by three transverse
										sulci, male, by only the hind one, female, these sulci deep on the lateral
										lobes, the front one short; prozona with front margin feebly rounded, slightly
										emarginate; metazona faintly punctate, its hind margin truncate, very broadly
										and feebly emarginate. Front and middle femora short and swollen in male; hind
										ones slender, slightly surpassing abdomen, male, reaching base of ovipositor,
										female. Supra-anal plate of male long, triangular, acute at tip, its side
										somewhat sinuous, feebly elevated, its median sulcus deep, entire. Furcula
										consisting of a pair of slender, cylindrical subparallel projections, overlying
										the basal fifths of the median ridges. Cerci stout, erect, black, and but feebly
										tapering above the broad basal third, their tips oblique. Subgenital plate
										one-half longer than the preceding segment, its upper margin broadly rounded,
										truncate, but with a slight median notch, the tubercle broad, prominent and
										borne distinctly below the margin of the plate. Length of body, ♂, 15--17.5, ♀,
										19--28; of antennæ, ♂, 8--9.2, ♀, 7--9; of head and pronotum, ♂, 5.5--5.8, ♀,
										6.3--7; of hind femora, ♂, 9--10.8, ♀, 10--12 mm.
								

								This, the typical form of our eastern Podisma, is mainly a
									subalpine species, known only on the higher mountains of New England, the
									Adirondacks and Catskills of New York, and on one or two of the higher peaks of
									eastern Pennsylvania. It is also recorded by Walker (1915) from Price
									Edward's Island and St. Fabien, Quebec. Scudder (1898c, 12) says:
									"More than 35 years ago, as I used to climb the footpath to Mt. Washington from
									the Peabody Valley, one of the first creatures to meet my eye as I emerged above
									the forest at the Ledge would be this wingless grasshopper, then first found in
									the clumps of dwarf birch, Betulanana L. Since then I have taken
									it many times at various points in the lower or subalpine portion of the barren
									summits of the Great Range, and it has also elsewhere been taken below the forest
									line." Morse (1898, 273) says that most of his specimens "were found
									on or among the various species of Vaccinium characteristic of
									the mountain tops and on Mt. Ascutney among dwarf cornel. It is a somewhat
									sluggish insect, relying chiefly for protection upon the similarity of its dark
									olive-green coloring to that of the surrounding vegetation, though on warm days
									the males become fairly active."

								
									151a. PODISMA GLACIALIS CANADENSIS
										E. M. Walker, 1903, 300. Northern Wingless Locust.

									Differs from glacialis mainly by the characters given in
										key. Color nearly the same, the inner and lower faces of hind femora often
										yellow instead of coral-red. Eyes of male slightly more prominent, the
										interocular space and fastigium in front of eyes slightly wider. Cerci of male
										about half as broad at middle as at base. Length of body, ♂, 15--18, ♀, 20-25.2;
											 of antennæ, ♂, 8--10, ♀, 9--10.5; of head and
										pronotum, ♂, 4.8-5.8, ♀, 6--7; of hind femora, ♂, 8.4--10.3, ♀, 10.2--12.6
										mm.
								

								North Bay and Algonquin Park, Ont., Aug. 14--Sept. 12 (Walker).
									A northern race of glacialis, taken by Walker at the localities
									mentioned and at Ft. William and the Temagami District, Ont. Known also from the
									Porcupine Mts., Keweenaw Bay and Dickinson Co., Mich. Walker found them in both
									dry and moist situations in open woods on bushes, chiefly the beaked hazel, Corylus rostrata Ait. and the red raspberry, also on spruce.
									Hebard took them at Keweenaw Bay by beating similar bushes in August and early
									September, and states that the males are active jumpers, quickly on the alert, but
									trusting to their very protective coloration they would not move till almost
									touched by the net. "The females," he says, "were a clear dull grass-green, the
									exact shade of the cloth of a billiard table, the males deep emerald green,
									appearing almost translucent, the back purplish-brown with a median chain of
									cream-colored marks."
								Walker considers canadensis an intermediate form or race
									connecting P. glacialis with P. variegata, but
									the great length of antennæ in the males of variegata, taken in
									connection with the other structural and color differences as given in key and
									description, leads me to place that as a distinct species.

								
									152. PODISMA VARIEGATA
										Scudder, 1897, 101. Variegated Wingless Locust.

									Form and size of P. glacialis. General color
										chocolate-brown with an olivaceous or greenish tinge. Male (of dried specimens)
										with face, a broad pronotal median stripe narrowing and extending back along
										dorsal surface of abdomen, lower halves of pronotal lateral lobes, two
										cross-bars on dorsal face and a subapical annulus of hind femora, cream white or
										dull clay-yellow. Antennæ pale brown, dusky at tip. Lower face of hind femora
										pale red. Hind tibiæ olive-green, the spines black with a pale base. Abdomen
										clay-yellow. Female duller, lacking the pale dorsal stripe, the face in part
										brown, the lower face of hind femora clay-yellow. Eyes more prominent in male,
										with interocular space obviously wider than in glacialis.
										Antennæ of both sexes much longer and more slender than there. Pronotum slightly
										wider with metazona more evidently expanded, its hind margin squarely truncate.
										Hind femora longer and more slender than in glacialis, their
										tips distinctly surpassing the abdomen in male. Furcula slightly shorter and
										more tapering. Cerci of male longer, much more slender, dark brown, not black,
										the apex feebly widened and rounded, not oblique as in glacialis; those of female much more slender, with narrower base and
										more strongly tapering. Supra-anal plate of female shorter, with apex deflexed
										instead of horizontal as in glacialis. Subgenital plate of
										male with upper margin more broadly and deeply notched above the tubercle than
										there. Length of body, ♂, 16.5--20, ♀, 21--26.5; of antennæ, ♂, 10--12, ♀,
										9--11.5; of head and pronotum, ♂, 5.3--6.3, ♀, 6.5--7.8; of hind femora, ♂,
										9.5--10.5, ♀, 12--13.5 mm.
								



								

								DeGrassi Point and Guilford, Ont., Sept. 9--Oct. 21 (Walker).
									Scudder's types were from Ithaca and Enfield Falls, N. Y., and the known range of
									the species extends from the Ontario stations mentioned south to the mountains of
									North Carolina, near Balsam and Pineola, where specimens were taken by Morse who
									says (1904, 41): "This locust seems to be rather widely distributed in the higher
									parts of the North Carolina mountains, inhabiting shrubby undergrowth and thickets
									of weeds and bushes throughout the mountains. It is a sluggish and secretive
									species, and but few examples were observed at any one point." At DeGrassi Point
									Walker found them in swampy ground, where the vegetation was of a boreal
									character. In such places they were found on bushes and the branches and trunks of
									the Arbor-vitae, sometimes eight or ten feet above the ground. Rehn (1900,
										631) says that in Pennsylvania they usually occur on the branches of
									hemlock, and wherever taken have been in the vicinity of that tree. Vestal
										(1914, 107) has recorded it from near Douglas Lake, Mich., from specimens
									identified by Caudell.
								Scudder in his key to the species of Podisma (1897, 97) used
									the form of the cerci and the color of hind femora as the principal characters in
									separating this species from glacialis. Walker (1903,
										298) has endeavored to show that his race canadensis is
									a connecting link between glacialis and variegata, and has used the slight variation in form of cerci and color of
									hind femora in canadensisas his principal evidence. Admitting
									that in canadensis the cerci are more slender, the upper face of
									hind femora faintly barred and the antennæ slightly longer than in typical glacialis; the much greater length of antennæ, different general
									hue, strongly fasciate hind femora, squarely truncate front and hind margins of
									pronotum, longer hind femora of male and distinctly more slender cerci in both
									sexes of variegata present a combination of characters which,
									taken in connection with its range and habitat, lead me to regard it as more than
									an "incipient species" or race of glacialis, and I have
									therefore retained it as Scudder placed it--as a distinct and valid species.
							

							
								VII. APTENOPEDES
									Scudder, 1877a, 83. (Gr., "unfledged" +  "to leap.")

								Slender-bodied, small or medium sized species, having the face strongly oblique,
									occiput and vertex horizontal; fastigium in front of eyes widened and subvertical;
									eyes large, elongate-oval, rather prominent with the interocular area as narrow as
									the apex of frontal costa, male, depressed, tapering above and with interocular
										 space wider than the costa, female; antennæ
									slender, with joints somewhat flattened, about as long as, female, or slightly
									longer than, male, the head and pronotum together; frontal costa narrow, deeply
									sulcate, its margins usually parallel; disk of pronotum rugulose-punctate
									throughout, distinctly widening from apex to base and strongly tectiform, female,
									widening only on the metazona, male; median carina low, cut only by the principal
									sulcus; lateral carinæ wanting; prozona more than twice as long as metazona, its
									front margin usually feebly rounded; metazona with hind margin sub-truncate or
									broadly, feebly emarginate; lateral lobes subvertical, nearly twice as long as
									deep, narrowing downward, front margin strongly oblique, lower one sinuous, its
									hind angle broadly rounded; tegmina linear, about as long as pronotum or absent;
									prosternal spine slender, cylindrical, its apex blunt; inner margin of mesosternal
									lobes broadly convex, their interspace nearly linear, male, or less than half
									their width, female; hind femora slender, reaching base of ovipositor, female,
									slightly surpassing abdomen, male; abdomen compressed and strongly carinate,
									female, subcylindrical, usually nearly horizontal and with apex but little
									enlarged, male; supra-anal plate of male rather short, triangular or suboval, its
									margins reflexed and with a short basal median groove; subgenital plate very
									short, its apical margin low, not tuberculate.
								A genus confined to the South Atlantic States, where it is represented by two
									species and one geographic race.

								
									KEY TO SPECIES OF APTENOPEDES.

									a. Tegmina present as elongate linear pads; margins of frontal costa
										converging above the antennæ and uniting at the lower margin of the convex
										fastigium.
									b. Cerci of male substyliform, nearly straight, tapering rapidly from
										base to middle (Fig. 118, e); shorter than supra-anal plate,
										the latter elongate-triangular, its sides subparallel and apex acute. 153. SPHENARIOIDES.
									bb. Cerci of male with apical half falcate, bent inward, as long as or
										slightly longer than the supra-anal plate, the latter broadly oval, its sides
										curved and apex obtusely rounded.153a.
											CLARA.
									aa. Tegmina wholly wanting; margins of frontal costa feebly converging
										above the antennæ, not uniting but continued separately to the crest of the
										strongly flattened fastigium. 154. APTERA.
								

								
									153. APTENOPEDES SPHENARIOIDES, Scudder, 1877a,
											84. Linear-winged Locust.

									Male slender, subcylindrical; female much larger, strongly compressed.
										General color green, or (more often in female) sometimes a purplish-brown. Head
										and face usually flecked with fuscous dots; antennæ reddish-yellow, their tips
										dusky. Pronotum with a narrow pale yellow stripe each side along its dorsal
										margins, this extending forward along the  oblique
										hind margin of eye and backward along the upper edge of the otherwise black
										tegmina. Outer face of hind femora green, male, or brown, more or less
										infuscate, female, inner and lower faces dull yellow; hind tibiæ dull
										bluish-green, the spines tipped with black. Abdomen of male usually with a
										dorsal median yellowish stripe, banded below each side with a blackish-fuscous
										one; under surface, fore and middle femora and all the tarsi, dull yellow.
										Vertex of male with margins raised and meeting in a point, thus forming a
										triangular concavity between the eyes, in front of which it is extremely
										narrowed; of female with disk almost flat, the margin scarcely elevated, the
										apex more than twice as wide as in the male. Furcula short but distinct, widely
										separated, (not subattingent as stated by Scudder) cylindrical, lying on the
										sides of the basal median ridges. Cerci and other structural characters as
										described above and in key. Length of body, ♂, 16--21, ♀, 22--28; of antennæ, ♂
										and ♀, 7--8; of tegmina, ♂, 3, ♀, 4; of hind femora, ♂, 10, ♀, 11--12 mm.
								

								Ormond, Sanford, Hastings, Lakeland and Dunedin, Fla., August--March (W. S. B.). My first specimens of this peculiar and easily
									identified species were taken at Ormond, March 7, 1899, and were noted (1902, 34)
									as follows: "On a patch of green weeds in an old orange orchard I found a pair of
									wingless, bright green locusts, the tegmina being represented only by narrow,
									oblong, whitish-yellow scales. They leap clumsily when disturbed. On a dead clump
									of grass in a neighboring field I took a brown female of the same species, so that
									it, like many other Acridians, seeks a place of hiding with which it agrees in
									color. There, as long as motionless, it is quite secure from the eyes of those
									birds and reptiles which are ever on the search for a juicy locust." About Dunedin
										A. sphenarioides is frequent in both nymph and adult stages
									throughout the fall and winter months, occurring especially on wire-grass, dwarf
									huckleberry bushes and other low vegetation along the pathways, roadways, ditches
									and streams of open pine woods. It occurs on Hog Island, where the males are
									intermediate between the typical form and the race clara. When
									flushed the males are much the more active, often leaping several feet and
									alighting on some supporting stem or shrub, a foot or more above the ground, where
									they can watch to better advantage the approaching intruder, while the heavier
									bodied females usually attempt to burrow after a short leap or two. Scudder's
									types were from Ft. Reed and Jacksonville, and it has been recorded many times
									from all parts of the State east of DeFuniak Springs, the form taken south of
									Lakeland and Tampa being mostly of the race clara.
								The known range of A. sphenarioides is confined to Florida and
									the southern third of Georgia. The A. rufovittata of
										Scudder (1877a, 85) has been shown by Davis (1915, 98)
									to have been  based on males of aptera and immature females of sphenarioides, and hence
									falls as a synonym under those two species.

								
									153a. APTENOPEDES SPHENARIOIDES CLARA
										Rehn, 1902, 14.

									Usually somewhat longer than typical sphenarioides, and
										agreeing with that form in color and structural characters except in the male
										genital organs, which differ as described in key. The furcula in typical clara, are short, broad, depressed lobes, sometimes so short as
										to be almost or wholly obsolete. Supra-anal plate shorter and wider with apex
										more bluntly rounded. "Cerci more elongate, basal half tapering, apical half
										decurved, falcate, bent inward, displaying a very marked internal shoulder."
										Length of body, ♂, 19--27, ♀, 26--34; of pronotum, ♂, 3.5--5.5, ♀, 5--7; of
										tegmina, ♂, 3--5.5, ♀, 4.7--6.8; of hind femora, ♂, 11--15, ♀, 13--17 mm.
								

								Biscayne Bay, Miami, Ft. Myers, Sarasota, Tampa, Key West and Dunedin, Fla.,
									August--April (W. S. B.). This so-called race occurs in the
									southern half of peninsular Florida, and is so close to the typical form that it
									is scarcely worthy of a varietal name. About Lakeland, Dunedin and Sarasota the
									two forms intergrade, the cerci being slightly shorter than in typical clara, with tips bent inward but without the "shoulder" above
									mentioned, the supra-anal plate intermediate in width and the furcula in form and
									length. The females are absolutely inseparable from those of typical sphenarioides, though usually a little larger. Its habits and haunts are
									essentially the same, though it more often occurs closer to the coast. It has been
									recorded from numerous localities in south Florida, including the southern Keys,
									Rehn's types being from Miami. R. & H. (1914d, 109) state that
									the evidence, based on specimens from Lakeland, strongly indicates that clara is but a geographic race of sphenarioides,
									and Hebard (1915b, 407) has so placed it.

								
									154. APTENOPEDES APTERA
										Scudder, 1877a, 86. Wingless Florida Locust.

									Female larger and more robust than in sphenarioides; males
										much smaller and more slender than females. Males in life green with a broad
										pinkish-red stripe along each side of pronotal disk, and a narrower paler
										reddish-yellow one along dorsal surface of abdomen; disk of pronotum and upper
										sides of abdomen chocolate-brown; antennæ dull green more or less dusky; hind
										tibiæ blue; hind tarsi pink, the claws black-tipped. Female either nearly
										uniform green or pale brown, the abdomen usually with a narrow median dorsal
										reddish-yellow stripe, the sides flecked with small scattered yellowish spots;
										hind tibiæ pale blue, tarsi as in male; all the colors fading much in drying.
										Head larger and broader than in sphenarioides; vertex in
										female narrower between the eyes; fastigium much more strongly flattened in
										front of them, the margins of frontal costa reaching its crest. Pronotum,
										especially that of female, much more strongly rugoie with sides of disk more
										tectiform, its front margin more produced forward 
										being broadly obtuse-angulate in both sexes. First two or three abdominal
										segments strongly rugose-punctate. Supra-anal plate of male triangular, with
										sides subparallel on basal half, sinuous and converging toward the obtuse-angled
										apex; its surface with a median sulcus on basal half and another on apical
										third; furcula very short, narrow, strongly diverging flattened lobes. Cerci
										much as in typical sphenarioides, their apical halves more
										acute. Length of body, ♂, 16--21, ♀, 25--33; of antennæ, ♂, 7.5--9.5, ♀,
										6.5--8.5; of pronotum, ♂, 3.8--4.5, ♂, 6--7.5; of hind femora, ♂, 8.5--12, ♀,
										11--15 mm.
								

								Ormond, Eustis, Lakeland and Dunedin, Fla., Dec. 11--April 6 (W. S.
										B.). The males of this wingless Acridian, with their pink margined pronotal
									disk, bright blue hind tibiæ and pink tarsi are in life among the most handsome of
									Florida locusts. They are much more scarce than the females and about Dunedin have
									mostly been taken by beating the foliage of a tall scurfy Ericad, Xolisma ferruginea Walt., which grows in clumps in very dry, sandy
									localities. The females occur on the same shrub, but more frequently on a much
									lower one, Xolisma fruticosa Michx,, and on or among low
									huckleberries and other Ericads in open pine woods. Not more than three males and
									a dozen mature females have been taken in any one winter, though the nymphs are
									quite frequent from February to April. The species was described from Fort Reed,
									Fla., and has been recorded by other collectors from numerous localities
									throughout that State, and from some of the southern keys, but is usually
									everywhere much less common than sphenarioides. Davis
										(1914, 196) says: "This species is active at night and it is no uncommon
									sight to see several of the grasshoppers devouring the leaves of the scrub
									palmetto, in which they make half-moon shaped cuts; eating down to the
									midrib."
								The known range of A. aptera is practically the same as that of
										sphenarioides, extending, according to R. & H., "from
									Jesup and Homerville, Ga., southward over peninsular Florida and on Big Pine Key."
									As already noted, the males of A. rufovittata Scudder, are to be
									referred to this species.
							

							
								VIII. PARATYLOTROPIDIA
									Scudder,53 1897,
										117. (Gr., "beside" + "keel.")

								Rather stout, somewhat compressed species, having the head large, protuberant,
									not broader than pronotum; face moderately oblique; vertex broadly arched, not
									elevated; fastigium very broad, swollen, feebly declivent, its apex rounded; eyes
									oval, one-half longer than broad; antennæ slender, as long as, female, or longer,
										53Brunner
											(1893, 147) characterized and named this genus, basing it on the then
										undescribed species P. brunnea Scudd. which he did not name.
										Scudder was therefore the first to validate the genus by ascribing to it a fixed
										species.
									 male, than head and pronotum together. Pronotum
									with both median and lateral carinæ, the latter straight in our eastern species,
									becoming obsolete near hind margin which is broadly obtuse-angulate; prosternal
									spine rather slender, pyramidal with rounded apex; interspace between the
									mesosternal lobes much longer than broad in both sexes; tegmina as described in
									generic key, narrowly separated or slightly over-lapping; hind femora very long;
									subgenital plate of male without apical tubercle; abdomen of female tapering,
									valves of ovipositor slender, strongly exserted, their lateral edges sinuous,
									without teeth.
								Two species are known, one, P. brunneri
									Scudder (1897, 118), ranging from Dakota and Arkansas to Texas, the
									other known as yet only from North Carolina.

								
									155. PARATYLOTROPIDIA BEUTENMUELLERI
										Morse, 1907a, 14. Beutenmiiller's Locust.

									"Reddish-brown above, the abdomen varied with yellow. Under surface, sides
										of head, pronotum and metepisterna dull yellow; hind tibiæ deep red, the spines
										tipped with black. Facial costa rather deeply sulcate, narrowed above at meeting
										with vertex; the latter subacute in profile, flat above, its front margins
										angulate over shallow foveolæ open below to the antennal fossæ. Pronotum evenly
										tectiform above, the sides plane, meeting dorsum at an angle less pronounced
										behind. Lateral lobes smooth above, longitudinally rugulose below on prozona,
										coarsely punctate on metazona, flavescent save for a narrow fuscous border below
										lateral carinæ. Metepisterna with distinct rugæ. Tegmina, short, nearly as broad
										as long, truncate, apex broadly rounded, dorsal field broad, scarcely angulate
										with the lateral one. Hind femora of moderate size, olivaceous, rufo-flavescent
										above. Cerci small, triangular, one and one-third times as long as broad,
										acutely pointed. Abdomen keeled above. Length of body, ♀, 27.5; of hind femora,
										13.6; of prozona, 4; metazona, 3; of tegmina, 5 mm. Width of metazona, 5; of
										tegmina, 4 mm." (Morse.)
								

								The above is the original description, omitting the points covered under the
									generic diagnosis. It is so far known only from three females taken by
									Beutenmilller near Black Mountain, N. Car., Aug. 30, 1906, and July, 1912, one
									being in the Davis collection and another in that of the American Museum.
							

							
								IX. PAROXYA
									Scudder, 1877b, 28. (Gr., "near" + "sharp.")

								Medium sized, subcylindrical species, having the head moderately large; face
									distinctly not strongly oblique; eyes large, prominent, more than half as long
									again as the cheek beneath them; vertex strongly narrowed between the eyes, the
									narrowest portion about three-fourths the width of frontal costa, male, as broad
									as costa between the antennæ, female; fastigium widened and with a broad
									lengthwise sulcus in front of eyes, male, or shallow angulate  concavity, female; foveolæ present as small rounded or oval pits;
									frontal costa prominent but scarcely sulcate above the ocellus, less convex and
									more strongly sulcate below it; antennæ of male usually half or more the length of
									body; disk of pronotumn as in generic key, the surface flat or nearly so; median
									carina low, of equal height throughout, usually cut only by the last transverse
									sulcus; prozona one-third to one-half as long again as metazona, the latter with
									surface finely and densely punctate, its hind margin obtusely angulate or bluntly
									rounded; lateral lobes vertical, longer than deep, the lower margin with its front
									half strongly ascending; tegmina and wings variable in length, but in our species
									always much longer than the pronotum; hind femora of average stoutness, equalling
									or more usually surpassing the tip of abdomen; subgenital plate of male short, of
									subequal width throughout; valves of ovipositor strongly exserted, the edges of
									upper ones crenate, of lower ones smooth.
								Kirby (1910, 505) recognizes seven species, some of which are
									synonyms. Two species and two varieties or races occur in our territory. The genus
									is very close to Melanoplus and seems to be connected with it by
									the variety P. a. paroxyoides Scudd. However, the species have a
									facies which is easily recognizable after a slight acquaintance, this being due
									largely to the slender, straight, parallel form.

								
									KEY TO EASTERN FORMS OF PAROXYA.

									a. Body shorter, of female rarely over 28 mm.; antennæ of male shorter
										than hind femora; tegmina at least as long as abdomen, male, often slightly
										shorter, female.
									b. Inner upper face of hind femora nearly uniform in color, not or
										indistinctly barred with fuscous; form more slender, typical of the genus.156. ATLANTICA.
									bb. Inner upper face of hind femora with three fuscous bars and outer
										face often trifasciate with pale and dark bars (Fig. 122); form stouter, much
										resembling that of Melanoplus. 156a. PAROXYOIDES.
									aa. Body longer, of female usually 30 or more mm.; antennæ of male
										longer than hind femora; tegmina variable in length.
									c. Tegmina normally as long as abdomen, male, often slightly shorter,
										female; furcula relatively slender, subcylindrical, their inner margins not
										attingent; cerci of male with tips broadly rounded; sides of apical margins of
										subgenital plate not elevated. 157. CLAVULIGER.
									cc. Tegmina covering at most two-thirds of abdomen; furcula stouter,
										more depressed, their basal halves attingent (Pl. IV. t);
										cerci with tips subtruncate, feebly emarginate; sides of apical margins of
										subgenital plate elevated and somewhat flaring. 157a. HOOSIERI.
								


								

								
									156. PAROXYA ATLANTICA
										Scudder, 1877b, 29. Atlantic Locust.

									Size small for the genus, the sexes more equal in size than in the other
										species. Metazona, tegmina and upper and outer faces of all the femora of male a
										uniform light wood-brown, occiput and prozona darker. A broad black stripe
										extends from the eye along the upper half of the lateral lobes of pronotum as
										far as the posterior transverse sulcus, where it merges gradually into the paler
										brown, this black stripe bordered below by one of ivory white, brightest on the
										head, and often flecked with fuscous dots; metapleura also ivory white. Face
										grayish-olive, flecked or tinged with yellowish; basal two-thirds of antennæ the
										color of tegmina, apical third usually darker. Palpi and prosternal spine
										yellow. Sternites of thorax olive brown; those of abdomen yellow, as are also
										the lower faces of all the femora. Hind tibiæ dull pale green (basal third
										sometimes light brown), with a black spot at knee; the spines with their apical
										thirds black. Female darker, discoidal area of tegmina sometimes obscurely and
										sparingly flecked with fuscous, the yellow of under side dull or wanting.
										Prozona one-third longer than metazona, the latter with hind margins
										obtuse-angulate. Supra-anal plate of male very short, triangular, with a short
										basal triangular sulcus, in which rest the furcula; these consisting, in
										northern individuals (scudderi Blatch.), of a pair of
										flattish, oblong plates with their inner edges parallel and tips rounded; in the
										southern ones (typical atlantica) they are subtriangular with
										the tips narrow and feebly diverging. Cerci long, slender, strongly incurved,
										narrowed at middle, the basal half stouter, apical third flattened, feebly
										concave and carinate on outer face, rounded at tip. Other structural characters
										as given above. Length of body, ♂, 16--24, ♀, 22--28; of antennæ, ♂ and ♀,
										8.5--12; of pronotum, ♂, 4.2--5.8, ♀, 5.5--6; of tegmina, ♂, 12--18, ♀,
										14.5--18; of hind femora, ♂, 11--14, ♀, 13--16 mm. (Fig. 121, a,
											b.)
								
								
									Fig. 121. a, Paroxya atlantica Schtdd., male; b, female; c, P. clavuliger hoosieri (Blatch.), male.
										All X 1.3 (Original.)
								

								In Indiana this graceful-bodied species was first found in small numbers on July
									27, about the grassy margins of a pond in the sand dune region north of Millers,
									Lake County, and within one-half a mile of the shore of Lake Michigan. On the
									following day a single pair were taken from a similar locality near Tolleston, in
									the same county, and about four miles from the lake,  but still within the sand covered area. It was usually found clinging to the
									stems of the tall rushes and grasses common in such locations, and when disturbed
									the males used the wings in a noiseless flight, while the females depended upon
									their leaping powers to escape. When closely followed, they would attempt to hide
									by burrowing in the fallen grass. A single male was afterward taken from low
									ground along a railway southeast of Hammond, and on August 20th it was found in
									numbers in the tall grasses along a lobe of Bass Lake, Starke County.
								Some of the first specimens taken were sent to Scudder who, basing his opinion
									largely on the form of the furcula, stated that they represented an undescribed
									species allied to atlantica, but of smaller size and with longer
									cerci. Not having specimens of atlantica at hand for comparison,
									I described them (1898, 59) as Paroxya scudderi. R. &
										H. (1916, 249) have shown that the Indiana specimens represent only a
									smaller incipient northern race of atlantica. With a large
									series of Florida atlantica for comparison, I agree with their
									opinion, though a number of characters other than the shape of furcula separate
									the northern and southern forms; the hind margin of metazona being less produced
									and more broadly angulate and the valves of ovipositor having longer, more slender
									points in the Indiana than in Florida specimens.
								In Florida I have found P. atlantica to be a common locust
									between Nov.1 and April 15, it having been collected by me at all stations except
									Cape Sable and Key West. It occurs for the most part among grasses and sedges
									along the borders of inland lakes, ponds and streams and the bays and lagoons of
									the coast. On Hog Island, opposite Dunedin, several females have been taken having
									the face, disk and lower sides of pronotum and upper and lower faces of hind
									femora a bright purplish-red. Elsewhere in Florida it has been recorded from many
									places by other collectors, and doubtless occurs in numbers in both adult and
									nymph stages in all parts of the State throughout the year.
								The known range of P. atlantica is mainly confined to the
									Atlantic coastwise states, extending from Jamesburg and Lakehurst, N. J., south
									and west at least as far as the southern extremity of Florida, Mobile, Ala., and
									Biloxi and Gulfport, Miss. Inland it is known only from Northern Indiana and
									Illinois. Morse (1907, 53) says it is "common in the piney woods of
									the Gulf Strip of the Coastal Plain, especially in grassy places among the
									inkberry shrubbery, Ilex glabra L., and also in swampy spots and
									sometimes in the salt marshes." In New Jersey Fox (1914) says it is
									"a characteristic species of the sphagnum bogs, 
									frequenting especially the areas of chain-fern, Woodwardia
										virginica L."

								
									156a. PAROXYA ATLANTICA PAROXYOIDES
										(Scudder), 1897b, 28.

									A rather robust form of medium size, separated from typical atlantica mainly by the characters given in the key. Form somewhat
										heavier. Tegmina shorter, those of female rarely reaching base of ovipositor,
										more often feebly maculate with small fuscous spots along the discoidal area.
										Hind femora slightly more robust. Hind tibiæ more distinctly glaucous or
										bluish-green, with a pale subapical annulus. Cerci of male longer, more slender,
										their apical thirds roundly spatulate. Otherwise as in typical atlantica. Length of body, ♂, 18.1--20, ♀, 27--28; of antennæ, ♂ and ♀,
										10--11; of tegmina, ♂, 13--15, ♀, 17--18: of hind femora, ♂, 11.3--12, ♀,
										14.5--15 mm.
								

								In early March I have found this southern race of P. atlantica
									quite frequent at Long Key and Key West, Fla., among the low shrubs and grasses
									which cover sparsely the broken fragments of coquina rock along the shores of the
									islands. It is described by Scudder (1897, 331) under the name of Melanoplus paroxyoides, his types being from Key West and
									Tallahassee. R. & H. (1912) first placed it as a race of atlantica, their specimens being from several of the southern keys
									and taken in the heavy jungle-like tangled growth, as well as among the low
									vegetation of the bare coquina rocks. In their opinion it is confined to the keys
									of South Florida, but a male at hand was taken at Ft. Myers, March 12.
								
									Fig. 122. Hind femur of male of P. a. paroxyoides, showing
										fuscous markings. X 3. (After R. & H.)
								

								
									157. PAROXYA CLAVULIGER
										(Serville), 1839, 676. Olive-green Swamp Locust.

									Size large for the genus, the males usually much the more slender. Under
										surface, abdomen and femora olivaceous-green; occiput, disk of pronotum and
										tegmina uniform pale to dark brown. Face, lower sides of pronotum and pleura
										creamy-white, sometimes dull yellow in female. The usual shining black bar
										extends back from eyes to metazona, there merging into the brown. Antennæ
										fuscous-brown, the front margins of segments paler. Hind femora with outer face
										often infuscate, their knees and the claws and arolia of tarsi black. Hind tibiæ
										bluish-green with black spines. Vertex and frontal costa much as in atlantica, the foveolæ of the former more distinct. Pronotum with hind
										margin obtuse, often broadly rounded, and median carina sometimes feebly cut by
										all three sulci. Supra-anal plate of male long, triangular with a broad median
										rounded ridge extending two-thirds its length, on the summit of which, in the
										basal half of the plate, is a narrow, deep sulcus, this after interruption is
										again visible along the apical fourth; furcula as described in key. Cerci long.
											 slender, incurved, narrowed at middle, the
										apical fourth flattened and concave without (Pl. IV. t.)
										Subgenital plate of male with apex subtruncate, the lateral margins low. Length
										of body, ♂, 20--32, ♀, 28--44; of antennæ, ♂, 13--19, ♀, 9--15; of pronotum, ♂,
										4.5--6.7, ♀, 6--8.5; of tegmina, ♂, 12--22, ♀, 16--28; of hind femora, ♂,
										12--16.5, ♀, 16--22 mm.
								

								Boston, Mass., Aug. 11 (Morse); Gainesville, Fla., Sept.
									20--Oct. 24 (Fattig); Sanford, Lake Okeechobee and Dunedin,
									Fla., Dec. 11--Apr. 4 (W. S. B.). In Florida I have found this
									species in winter much less common than atlantica, not more than
									half a dozen being found at any one locality. There its habits and haunts are
									essentially the same as those of atlantica. At other seasons it
									appears to be more abundant, having been recorded from numerous stations as
									common, especially in the typical saw-grass of the everglades and among tall
									grasses growing near sink-holes and damp places in the pine woods.
								The known range of typical clavuliger is much more extensive
									than that of the other species of Paroxya, but is mainly
									submaritime, extending from Arner, Ontario, and southern New England to southern
									Florida, Louisiana and Dallas, Texas. From most of its known stations it has been
									recorded under the name Paroxya floridana Thos., which R.
										& H. (1916, 251) have shown to be a synonym. For a number of years it
									was confused with P. atlantica, and was often mentioned or
									recorded under that name. In New England Morse (1898, 296) says: "It
									occurs locally in swamps and marshes, especially on cord-grass (Spartina) growing in the tide-water ditches of salt meadows and in the
									long sedge of bushy inland meadows and swamps. While active and alert it is
									readily captured, owing to its habit of trying to escape observation by getting
									out of sight behind the stouter stems of grass and weeds rather than by flight, to
									which it resorts only when alarmed. It leaps well and quickly but its flight is
									comparatively short." He has described (1893a) a melanistic form from near
									Cambridge, Mass., the males being "deep-greenish-black with a peculiar oily
									lustre."
								In Virginia Fox (1917) records clavuliger as
									"abundant in the tidal marshes of the Coastal Plain, frequenting the dense growths
									of Scirpus americanus Pers. and Spartina
										cynosuroides L., but not present in true salt marsh dominated by Spartina glabra Muhl. It also occurs inland in bogs and wet
									meadows overgrown with cat-tails, dense grasses, and other rank herbage. At Jarman
									Gap in the Blue Ridge the species was found in a small boggy spot near the head of
									a stream quite close to the summit."



								


								
									157a. PAROXYA CLAVULIGER HOOSIERI
										(Blatchley), 1892a, 31. Hoosier Locust.

									Size and form of P. clavuliger. The living males have the
										antennæ, pale reddish-brown, infuscated at tip, the apical sixth of each segment
										yellowish; face green, clypeus and mouth-parts yellow; vertex, disk of pronotum
										and tegmina, plain olive-brown, immaculate. Lower half of pronotal lateral lobes
										greenish-yellow, upper half with a broad, shining black stripe reaching from eye
										to hind margin. Under side of abdomen pale yellow; metapleura yellow, its hind
										margin black. Femora green, knees black; hind tibiæ greenish, yellowish-brown at
										base, with black spines. Females duller, the disk of pronotum and tegmina
										sometimes with minute fuscous spots, the black stripes of pronotum reaching only
										to metazona; abdomen with a black stripe each side, above which are numerous
										small black blotches. Foveolæ almost twice as long as wide, more distinct in
										female. Tegmina oblong, reaching to middle of abdomen and slightly overlapping
										on median dorsal line, the wings but little shorter. Supra-anal plate of male as
										in clavuliger but somewhat shorter; furcula consisting of a
										pair of oblong, feebly convex adjacent plates, their inner edges so abruptly
										narrowed near middle as to form a blunt tooth, thence feebly tapering and
										diverging to the obtuse tips. Length of body, ♂, 20--22, ♀, 29--34; of antennæ,
										♂, 12--15, ♀, 11--13; of pronotum, ♂, 5--6, ♀, 6--7; of tegmina, ♂, 9--10, ♀,
										11--13; of hind femora, ♂, 12--14, ♀, 16--18 mm. (Fig. 121, c.)
								

								This handsome locust was first noted in Indiana about the margins of the "Goose
									Pond," Vigo Co., on October 11, 1891. It at once attracted attention on account of
									the length of the male antennæ, and the black stripes on the sides of the abdomen
									of the female. The pond was then almost dry, and the dense growth of sedges and
									rushes which had filled its shallow margins, were, in some places, burned away.
									Over the burned spots had sprung up a dense green vegetation, and here this Paroxya flourished in company with Truxalis
										brevicornis and Dichromorpha viridis, while a few feet
									away Leptysma marginicollis found a suitable home among the
									rushes and sedges still standing. Both sexes of P. hoosieri were
									very active, leaping vigorously when approached, and difficult to capture except
									by throwing the net over them as they rested on the ground. On October 27th, the
									spot was again visited, and, although several heavy frosts had occurred, the
									species was still fairly common. At this time, however, they were all found in the
									small patches of grass which grew among the fallen leaves a few yards from the
									edges of the pond proper.
								Since then the locust has been found to be rather common in the western and
									northern portions of the State, where it occurs about the borders of marshes,
									especially those bordering lakes and tamarack bogs. In Gibson Co. it was found
									mature on July  10. Outside of Indiana P. hoosieri has been recorded only from near Oberlin, Ohio, where Dr.
									Lynds Jones found it "in abundance in the rank vegetation which sprang up in a dry
									swamp surrounded by woods," and from Milneburg, La., where Morse (1907,
										54) captured a male at the edge of a swamp, which measured 26 mm. in
									length of body, its antennæ being 17 and tegmina 12 mm. in length.
								On one occasion I found a female of this species and also one of Chlacaltis conspersa Harr., a few inches apart on, the stump of a downy
									poplar, Populus heterophylla L., each with the abdomen buried to
									the full length in the soft wood, but no eggs could be discovered. Nothing has
									been recorded concerning the habits of oviposition of the members of the genus Paroxya, and it would be surprising if they, like the Chlœaltis mentioned, should seek wood rather than earth as the receptive
									matrix for the eggs.
								P. hoosieri is closely related to P.
										clavuliger (Serv.), so close indeed, that after describing it I recorded it
									(1894, 244) as a short-winged form of P. atlantica, specimens of
										clavuliger having been sent me under the name of atlantica by Morse and Scudder. The differences in the abdominal
									appendages of male as set forth in key and description appear, however, to be
									constant, and it is therefore here retained as a northern or inland race of clavuliger.
							

							
								X. PHŒTALIOTES
									Scudder, 1897a, 202. (Gr., "a roamer.")

								Elongate, rather slender species, having the body feebly compressed; head large,
									prominent, nearly half as long again as prozona; vertex prominent, the narrowest
									portion one and one-half times as wide as frontal costa; fastigium declivent and
									with a broad median furrow or depression; frontal costa with lower half much wider
									than upper, not sulcate but concave around the ocellus; antennæ about
									three-fourths the length of hind femora; pronotum enlarged a little in front to
									receive the head; disk with sides feebly sloping, hind margin broadly
									obtuse-angled; median carina rather sharp, of equal height throughout; lateral
									lobes with lower margin obtuse-angled near middle; tegmina either abbreviate and a
									little longer than pronotum, broadly lanceolate, with inner margins sometimes
									attingent about the middle, but often well separated, or fully developed and
									surpassing the hind femora in both sexes; hind femora slender, surpassing the tip
									of abdomen, male, a little shorter, female.
								This genus is closely related to Melanoplus, but is
									distinguished by its large head, feebly flaring prozona and substyliform cerci.
									One species, widely distributed west of the Mississippi and occasionally found
									east of that stream, is known.



								

								
									158. PHŒTALIOTES NEBRASCENSIS
										(Thomas), 1872, 455. Large-headed Locust.

									General color olive-green, more or less marked with fuscous. Face
										olive-green, darker above. Antennæ reddish, dusky toward tips. A broad blackish
										band back of eye extends along side of pronotum to posterior transverse sulcus;
										disk of pronotum and tegmina wood brown. Abdomen of male with sides greenish,
										the posterior third of each segment fuscous; in female the fuscous predominates.
										Front and middle femora reddish yellow; hind femora greenish tinged with
										reddish-brown, lower face reddish-yellow, knees black. Hind tibiæ dull green,
										the spines black. Under surface greenish-yellow. Male with abdomen compressed,
										carinate above, its apical fourth thickened and curved upward; cerci depressed,
										styliform; supra-anal plate short, broad, triangular, its apex obtuse, median
										basal ridges widely separated and at middle of plate sending off a spur at right
										angles towards the sides; furcula minute, subtriangular, widely separated (Pl.
										IV. s.) Other structural characters as given under generic
										heading. Length of body, ♂, 21--24, ♀, 23--30; of antennæ, ♂, 8--11, ♀, 7--9; of
										pronotum, ♂, 4.5--5.5, ♀, 6--7; of tegmina, (short-winged) ♂, 6--6.5, ♀, 7--7.5;
										of tegmina, long-winged, ♂, 18--19, ♀, 18--20; of hind femora, ♂, 11--13, ♀,
										12.5--15 mm. (Fig. 123.)
								

								Only the short-winged form of this dull colored locust has been taken in Indiana,
									and those only in Lake and Porter counties on October 11 and 12. Just east of
									Hammond, they were found in a long, low, marshy tract among the leaves of blue
									flag. The next day they were more abundant about some marshes northwest of Dune
									Park. The males were strong and active leapers, oftentimes giving several great
									jumps to a tuft of bunch grass or weeds and gliding down it to the ground, where
									they squatted close until picked up with the fingers. The females were more
									sluggish and several were taken from between the stems of grass where they were
									standing on their heads, after endeavoring to escape by diving downward.
								With the exception of a single Massachusetts record, Porter Co., Ind., is the
									most eastern point from which the species has been recorded, its range extending
									thence west and north to Ft. McLeod, B. C., Montana and Wyoming, and south and
									southwest through Texas and Arizona to Cordoba, Mexico.
								
									Fig. 123. Male. After Lugger.)
								
								In Illinois it was first recorded from Colona and Cordova by McNeill (1891,
										76) under the name of Pezotettix autumnalis Dodge, a
									synonym. Hart (1907) mentions it also as occurring along swales
									between sand ridges near Waukegan; these and the Massachusetts record above noted
									being the only ones outside of  Indiana east of the
									Mississippi. Morse (1907, 53) found it a "common campestrian species
									among the dense grass of the plains and prairies of Oklahoma and northern Texas.
									The young are often largely dull ivory white in color and present a very singular
									appearance with their absurdly large heads." Somes (1914, 96) records
									it from Iowa and Minnesota and says that: 
										"It appears at first glance very much like some of the brachypterous forms of
												Melanoplus, but the compressed body and large head seem to
											separate it, even in the field. We first took it in Iowa by sweeping tall
											grasses in an upland meadow; a more careful examination resulted in the
											discovery of numerous specimens crouching among the stems and dead leaves at
											the bases of the plants. In Minnesota we have taken it in low marshes, along
											lakes and at the tops of high gravelly hills sparsely covered with grasses and
											weeds."
									
								

								From these notes it will be seen that P. nebrascensis may occur
									in almost any kind of a habitat within its range. The Caloptenus
										volucris
									Dodge (1877, 112) is a name given the long-winged form, and the Melanoplus harrisi
									Morse (Psyche, XVI, 1909, 12) is a synonym. The latter was described
									from a single male taken at Needham, Mass., Aug. 23, "among the rank herbage of an
									abandoned upland field," and was probably adventive rather than a fixed resident
									of the region.
							

							
								XI. MELANOPLUS
									Stål, 1873, 79. (Gr., "black" + "armor.")

								Body moderately stout, generally feebly compressed; head not or very rarely
									prominent, but little if any longer than prozona; face usually almost vertical;
									eyes rounded-oval, never more than half as long again as broad; interocular space
									at most but little wider than the frontal costa; fastigium more or less declivent,
									merging gradually into the frontal costa, always more or less sulcate or concave,
									especially so in male; frontal costa of average width and prominence, usually
									sulcate below the ocellus; antennæ slender, filiform, never longer than hind
									femora and never more than twice as long as pronotum; disk of pronotum variable in
									the different Series as described below, its lateral carinæ usually obsolete;
									lateral lobes of pronotum vertical or nearly so, their upper half usually with a
									blackish stripe; tegmina always present, in some species being mere oval or
									lanceolate scales, but little, if any, longer than pronotum, in others fully
									developed, and then attaining or slightly surpassing the tips of hind femora ;54 wings either represented by
									minute scales or fully developed, transparent, 54Four of our eastern species, viz., dawsoni, fasciatus, borealis and ponderosus,
										are known to be dimorphic in wing length, but in the short-winged form of the
										last three the tegmina cover half or more of the abdomen.
									 almost colorless; hind femora moderately long and
									slender, usually reaching tip of abdomen, female, surpassing it, male; cerci of
									male exceedingly variable in form, often enlarged at apex, rarely styliform, and
									usually about the length of supra-anal plate; furcula usually present and
									developed to a variable extent, also variable in form, so that they and the cerci
									furnish characters much used in separating the species one from another;
									ovipositor usually strongly exserted.
								This genus comprises more species than does any other of the North American
									Orthoptera, no less than 146 having been listed by Scudder (1900)
									from the United States and Canada, and treated by him in his "Revision of the
									Melanopli" and its supplement. Of the distribution of the species he says (1897,
									123) : "The genus Melanoplus, so richly endowed with species, is naturally very
									widely distributed, though so far as known it is completely confined to the
									continent of North America and does not occur, so far as reported, south of
									Mexico. Within this region it is as wide spread as all the other genera of
									Melanopli combined, extending from the Arctic Circle in Alaska and on the
									Mackenzie River, and from northern Labrador and perhaps southern Greenland on the
									north to the extremity of Florida and southern Mexico on the south, and from the
									Atlantic to the Pacific. It is, however, far richer in species in the west than in
									the east." Since 1900 numerous species have been described, and Kirby (1910,
										509) listed 202 species of the genus from North America, including
									Mexico. From the territory covered by the present work 51 species and 10 varieties
									are recognized. Some of these, to the casual observer, may seem very similar in
									size, color and general appearance, but a close examination of the abdominal
									appendages of the male will at once prove their distinctness. The tyro will
									probably have much difficulty in separating the females of the different species;
									in fact, he can only do so by taking the two sexes in the field, where they are
									usually to be found associated together.
								While dull colored and uninteresting to most people, the members of this genus
									form the most characteristic group of our Acrididæ. To it belong our most common
									locusts and the ones which do the most injury. From mid-May until late November in
									the latitude of Indiana they leap from our pathway in numbers, whether we stroll
									through open woodland, sunny meadow, or along the roadside; while in the back
									yards and on the lawns of our city homes they swarm in great profusion.
								The Kansas or Rocky Mountain locust, Melanoplus spretis (Thos.)
									belongs to this genus but does not occur east of the  Mississippi (Fig. 124). Contrary to the general belief, it is not a large,
									robust species, being but little larger than our common eastern M.
										atlanis (Riley), and bearing to the latter a close general resemblance; so
									close, in fact, that only specialists can readily tell them apart. Millions of
									dollars of damage was done in the Western States by these small insects in the
									summers of 1873 and 1875. Migrating in vast clouds from one part of the country to
									another they would fall upon a cornfield and convert, in a few hours, the green
									and promising acres into a desolate stretch of bare, spindling stalks and stubs.
									In the words of the prophet Joel: "The land was as the garden of Eden before them,
									and behind them a desolate wilderness; yea, and nothing did escape them."
								
									Fig. 124. Melanoplus spretis (Thos.). Male. Natural size.
								
								On account of the great number of eastern species they are, for convenience of
									treatment, first separated into two Divisions, and each of these is then farther
									divided into smaller groups or Series. The name given to each series in this work
									is that of the first described eastern species of the series, and in general,
									especially in Division I, the series bear but little if any relation to those of
									Scudder in his "Revision." The keys to series are based largely on the males, the
									females being so similar in color and structure that satisfactory characters for
									their inclusion could not be found.

								
									KEY TO DIVISIONS OF EASTERN SPECIES OF MELANOPLUS.

									a. Tegmina much shorter than abdomen, often shorter or no longer than
										the pronotum; furcula of male almost always feebly developed, often no longer
										than the last dorsal segment to which they are joined. DIVISION I. p. 360.
									aa. Tegmina (except in the females of some borealis)
										as long as or longer than the abdomen; furcula usually either well developed or
										obsolete. DIVISION II. p. 408.
								

								
									Division I. SHORT-WINGED
											SPECIES OF MELANOPLUS.

									The short-winged forms of Melanoplus inhabit more commonly
										thickets, woodlands and sides of wooded ravines, gulches and mountain slopes
										rather than open fields and prairies. They seldom wander far from their original
										hatching place and are therefore more local in distribution and more secretive
										in habits than their long-winged congeners. The latter are considered the more
										primitive, the short-winged ones having gradually evolved from them by becoming
										adapted to a life where sustained flight is difficult or impossible. Hence along
										the wooded mountain slopes of  New England and the
										southern States the short-winged forms are much the more numerous. Where a
										species is dimorphic in wing-length, the long-winged individuals appear to be
										more numerous toward the northern part of its range and the brachypterous toward
										the southern. This is probably due, in part at least, to the length of the
										season and the consequent food supply, the short northern summers necessitating
										a mobility not possessed by the brachypterous forms.
									As already noted, the form of supra-anal and subgenital plates and that of the
										cerci and furcula in Melanoplus are exceedingly variable, even
										in the same species, and the number of described nominal species and races,
										based mainly upon the variations of these abdominal organs, is entirely too
										great. The eastern species of this Division are grouped into seven Series as
										follows:

									
										KEY TO EASTERN SERIES OF SHORT-WINGED MELANOPLUS.

										a. Hind tibiæ green, glaucous, or greenish-yellow, never red; tegmina
											rarely as long as pronotum, usually distinctly shorter, their dorsal margins
											well separated, rarely (Series I,) attingent or feebly overlapping; median
											carina of pronotum low but usually distinct throughout.
										b. Prosternal spine conical or subcylindrical, its tips usually
											bluntly rounded, sometimes subacute; tips of tegmina broadly rounded.
										c. Hind tibiæ pale to bright green; furcula minute, shorter than the
											last dorsal segment to which they are attached, the basal third not widened or
											thickened (Pl. III, c, e); prosternal spine short, stout,
											conical. SERIES I, p. 362.
										cc. Hind tibiæ glaucous or dull greenish-yellow; furcula as long as,
											usually much longer than the last dorsal segment, their basal thirds or more
											usually either widened or thickened.
										d. General color greenish-yellow or pale brown; hind femora without
											fuscous bars on upper face; sides of pronotal disk subparallel, male, feebly
											divergent on metazona, female; prosternal spine rather slender,
											subcylindrical, its tip bluntly rounded. SERIES II, p.
												367.
										dd. General color dark reddish- or grayish-brown; upper face of hind
											femora usually obliquely bifasciate with fuscous; sides of pronotal disk
											strongly divergent behind in female; prosternal spine stouter, subconical, its
											tip rounded or subacute. SERIES III, p. 372.
										bb. Prosternal spine prominent, broad, flattened cylindric, the apex
											blunt, broadly rounded, usually transversely excised; tips of tegmina
											subtruncate, females, rarely broadly rounded, males; furcula shorter than the
											last dorsal segment or wholly wanting, rarely (strumosus)
											nearly half the length of supra-anal plate. SERIES IV, p.
												379.
										aa. Hind tibiæ wholly or in great part red.55
									

									55Rarely and
										abnormally dull greenish-yellow, the tegmina then distinctly longer than
										pronotum.



									

									
										e. Tegmina shorter than or but slightly longer than pronotum, at the
											most but slightly overlapping, their dorsal and median areas but feebly if at
											all defined.
										f. Median carina of pronotum distinct only on metazona and sometimes
											the apical third of prozona; tegmina with dorsal margins well separated,
											rarely subattingent in male; prosternal spine, short, conical or pyramidal;
											furcula as long or longer than last dorsal segment. SERIES V,
												p. 386.
										ff. Median carina of pronotum low but distinct throughout; tegmina
											with dorsal margins attingent or slightly overlapping, their tips subacute or
											obliquely rounded; prosternal spine longer, subcylindrical with blunt rounded
											apex; furcula (except in dawsoni) distinctly shorter than
											last dorsal segment. SERIES VI, p. 391.
										ee. Tegmina distinctly longer than pronotum, their dorsal and median
											areas sharply defined, dorsal margins strongly overlapping, tips narrowly
											rounded or subacute; median carina of pronotum distinct only on metazona;
											furcula no longer than the last dorsal segment, sometimes wanting. SERIES VII, p. 398.
									

									
										Series I. THE GRACILIS
												GROUP.

										Slender subcylindrical species of medium or small size and grayish-brown hue,
											having the postocular dark stripe extending back at least as far as metazona;
											hind tibiæ green; pronotum subcylindrical, its disk slightly convex with sides
											subparallel, male, feebly divergent, female, median carina percurrent,
											sometimes less distinct on prozona than on metazona, the latter with hind
											margin subtruncate or broadly obtuse-angulate; prosternal spine short,
											conical, the tip bluntly rounded; tegmina shorter than or subequal to pronotum
											in length, either widely separated or slightly overlapping, their tips broadly
											rounded; extremity of male abdomen feebly swollen; furcula very short,
											cylindrical projections or minute rounded lobes; cerci slender flattened
											plates, usually obviously narrower at middle than at apex (Pl. III, c, e) ; subgenital plate small, distinctly narrower than long,
											with slightly elevated, sometimes tuberculate extremity.

										
											KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF GRACILIS GROUP.

											a. Tegmina narrowly oblong, their dorsal margins widely separated;
												hind femora green without dark cross-bars; hind margin of metazona
												subtruncate and with a feeble median notch. 159. GRACILIS.
											aa. Tegmina elliptical, slightly overlapping, male, feebly
												separated, female; hind femora dull yellow with two oblique brownish or
												fuscous cross-bars; hind margin of metazona obtusely angled or broadly
												rounded without trace of emargination. 160. VIRIDIPES.
										

										
											159. MELANOPLUS GRACILIS
												(Bruner), 1876, 124. Graceful Narrow-winged Locust.

											Slender, subcylindrical, compressed, size small for the genus. Dull ash
												or wood brown above, greenish-yellow beneath. Head greenish-yellow 
												
													Plate III. Dorsal and side views of extremities of male abdomens of Hesperotettix and Melanoplus, showing
														the appendages, X 4. a, of H. pratensis;
															b, M. scudderi; c, M. viridipes; d, M. obovatipennis; e, M. gracilis;
															f, M. morsei; g, M. fasciatus; h, M. walshi; i, M. atlanis; j, M.
															impudicus. (After Scudder.)
												 except on occiput, which is brownish or olivaceous, sometimes with
												a narrow median yellow line. Pronotum with a shining blackish bar extending
												backward from eye along the upper half of each lateral lobe to metazona;
												lower halves of lateral lobes greenish-yellow. Hind femora bright green,
												lower face yellowish, knees black; hind tibiæ green, the spines black; all
												the colors fading or becoming darker in drying. Vertex not swollen or
												elevated above the pronotum; interocular space very  narow, about equalling the width of first antennal joint, male,
												nearly twice as broad, female; fastigium strongly declivent, narrowly but
												distinctly sulcate, male, broadly and shallowly concave, female. Frontal
												costa prominent, slightly wider than interspace between the eyes, feebly
												sulcate below the ocellus. Pronotum subcylindrical, faintly expanding on
												metazona; disk with sides feebly sloping; median carina low, distinct, equal
												throughout; prozona nearly twice the length of metazona. Tegmina about the
												length of prozona, narrowly oblong; tips subacuminate, male, narrowly
												rounded, female. Hind femora very slender, exceeding the abdomen in both
												sexes. Cerci as long as supra-anal plate, narrow, the middle third but half
												as broad as base, apical third slightly expanded, somewhat flattened and
												feebly curved backward or downward Supra-anal plate triangular, with obtuse
												apex and a rather deep, entire median groove; furcula usually consisting of
												a pair of minute oblong lobes, lying on the outer sides of the median ridges
												(Pl. III, e.) Length of body, ♂, 14--16, ♀, 18.5--20; of
												antennæ, ♂, 8.5--9, ♀, 7.5--8; of pronotum, ♂, 4.5, ♀, 5--5.5; of tegmina,
												♂, 2.5--3, ♀, 3.5--4; of hind femora, ♂, 9.5--10, ♀, 11--11.5 mm. (Fig.
												125.)
										

										In Indiana this is one of the more common of the short-winged members of Melanoplus. It probably occurs throughout the State, but has
											not been noted in the counties south of Monroe and Knox. It frequents rather
											low, wooded bluegrass pastures and is especially fond of resting and mating
											upon the foliage of the iron weeds (Vernonia) which grow
											abundantly in such places. Spots along the roads and pathways through such
											woods, where the ground ivy carpets the earth and the great ragweed and
											jewel-weed grow luxuriantly, are also very attractive to this graceful bodied
											locust. It is also partial to the tall grasses growing in ravines and along
											the borders of sloughs and marshes. In central Indiana the males begin to
											reach maturity by June 15th, the females about a week later. By July 5th they
											are mating in numbers. They have also been noted mating as late as November
											10th, and it may be possible that in favorable seasons, a second brood
											matures. Like most other wingless species, they are active leapers, the males,
											especially, being noted for their somersaults while endeavoring to escape
											capture.
										
											Fig. 125. Male X 1.5 (Original.)
										
										The furcula of the males of gracilis vary much in size and
											form, ranging from minute rounded or triangular parallel lobes to much larger
											finger-like diverging projections, longer than the dorsal segment to which
											they are attached.
										The known range of this easily distinguished little locust extends from
											central Ohio (Mead), Jackson Co., Mich. (Hubbell),  and Monterey, Va. (Fox), west and north to Minnesota, South Dakota and eastern
											Nebraska and southwest through Kentucky to Clarksville, Tenn., Mississippi and
											Arkansas. McNeill records it as rare in northwestern Illinois but more common
											in the central part of the State; Allen as "abundant in grassy groves in
											Iowa," and Somes (1914, 79) as uncommon in Minnesota, stating
											that there: "It prefers thickets of elder undergrown with blackberry. From one
											such spot I took twelve of these pretty little insects in less than half an
											hour." At Magazine Mountain, Ark., Morse (1907, 48) found it in
											"a cool damp thicket at a height of 2,400 feet where it was not uncommon but
											very alert and secretive, seldom showing itself and quick to leap away." The
												Pezotettix minutipennis
											Thos. (1876, 66) is a synonym.

										
											160. MELANOPLUS VIRIDIPES
												Scudder, 1897b, 13. Green-legged Locust.

											Rather slender, subcompressed; size medium. Males, brownish-fuscous
												above, dull yellow beneath, occiput darker. Side of head behind the lower
												half of eye with a broad shining black stripe, this extending backward the
												full length of upper half of lateral lobe of pronotum and bordered below by
												ivory white or yellowish. Disk of pronotum and tegmina wood brown. Fore and
												middle femora and all the tibiæ greenish; the hind tibiæ with a black basal
												ring followed by a pale one. Metapleuræ, hind knees, hind margins of three
												or four ventral segments and often both apical and hind margins of the last
												two, shining black or fuscous. Females duller, the black postocular stripe
												not extending downward on cheek as in male, and backward only to metazona,
												the dorsal surface and sides of abdomen more strongly fuscous, the dark bars
												of hind femora less distinct. Vertex moderately swollen, scarcely elevated
												above the pronotum, the portion between the eyes half as broad again, male,
												or twice as broad, female, as basal joint of antennæ. Fastigium rather
												strongly declivent, distinctly sulcate, male, more widely and shallowly so,
												female. Frontal costa feebly narrowed above the antennæ, shallowly sulcate
												in the region of the ocellus, male, almost flat, female. Pronotum with disk
												feebly expanding on metazona; prozona about half as long again as the
												densely punctate metazona, its median carina low, often in part subobsolete.
												Tegmina equalling, female, or slightly longer, male than pronotum,
												elliptical, their tips rounded. Supra-anal plate triangular, its apex
												acute-angled, median sulcus broad, shallow, interrupted at middle; furcula
												consisting of a pair of minute, widely separated, triangular lobes, lying
												outside the bases of the median ridges. Cerci extremely variable in shape,
												their typical form being long (nearly three times as long as broad at base),
												tapering gradually from base to middle; the apical half or more slender,
												subequal, feebly decurved, the tip rounded on dorsal side only, its outer
												face concave and ventral angle slightly produced (Pl. III, c.) Apex of subgenital plate feebly prolonged upward into a small
												conical tubercle. Length of body, ♂, 16--18, ♀, 21.5--23; of antennæ, ♂,
												9.5, ♀, 8.5--9; of pronotum, ♂, 5, ♀, 6; of tegmina, ♂ and ♀, 5--6; of hind
												femora, ♂, 8.5--9.5, ♀, 11.5--12 mm. (Fig. 126.)
										



										

										In Indiana this handsome short-winged form is the first locust to reach
											maturity from eggs hatched in spring, a mature male having been taken in Vigo
											County on May 11th, and a number of both sexes in Posey County on May 12th. By
											June 1st it is common locally, and by August 1st has mostly disappeared. It
											frequents rather low, flat woods and clearings, being found about the margins
											of burned or bare places.
										On June 3, 1900, I happened upon a large colony of viridipes in an upland woods in Marion Co. They were in an open,
											rather bare tract near the center of the woods, which was surrounded by beech
											and black maple trees. I took with the fingers, 40 of them in 20 minutes, and
											could have secured as many more. The males, when first disturbed, would leap
											two or three feet, almost perpendicularly, for several times in rapid
											succession, then give one or two sidewise leaps, and if still pursued,
											endeavor to hide the head beneath a dead leaf. The females were more clumsy
											and after giving one or two short leaps would squat close to the ground, when
											they were readily taken. One pair were mating and a number were yet in the
											nymph stage. On June 1, 1902, I found the species abundant in the same place,
											and again on June 5, 1904. In Lake Co. it was taken in a similar woods on the
											west side of Cedar Lake. It probably occurs in suitable localities over the
											greater portion of the State.
										
											Fig. 126. Male. X 1.3. (Original.)
										
										East of Indiana typical viridipes has been recorded
											definitely only from Vermont, Massachusetts and Ohio. In western New England
											it is very scarce, occurring among low shrubby dry upland thickets. In Ohio
											Mead reported it as fairly common in Franklin and Highland counties, and
											Hubbell (Ms.) reports it from Washtenaw Co., Mich. Farther west the species is
											known only from central and northwestern Illinois, where McNeill says that "it
											shows a decided preference for open grassy ravines," and from Nebraska, where
											Bruner reports it as "found only occasionally in woods along the Missouri
											River." It is probably a much more abundant species than the records show, its
											early appearance and sylvan habitat preventing it from being better known.
										As noted in the description, the cerci of the male viridipes vary greatly in shape, not only in breadth but also in the
											degree of the concavity of the dorsal margin, and therefore in the apparent
											width of the apical expansion. Specimens are often taken in which they are
											much stouter than there described, being less than twice as long as wide at
											base, with both margins almost parallel  from
											basal third to near apex, the apical third being more than half the width of
											base. Between this form and the typical one, there is one with the dorsal
											margin strongly concave at middle, the apical third therefore apparently
											broadened with apex obliquely excised. This was described by Morse
												(1904a, 9) as M. deceptus (Fig. 127, f). Another form with cerci very similar to the typical one but with
											dorsal margin more concave and tip transversely excised or subtruncate, he
											described (loc. cit.) as M. similis (Fig. 127,
												g). I regard both these nominal species as, at the most,
											only names for forms of male viridipes having the cerci
											extremely modified as described, the females being absolutely inseparable from
											those of viridipes. His deceptus was based
											upon specimens from Balsam, N. Car., Jasper Ga., and Vigo Co., Ind., the Vigo
											Co. male cotypes being collected by myself, with a colony of typical viridipes, one of them having been used by Scudder as a cotype
											of that species. Aside from the localities above given the form deceptus has been recorded by R. & H. from Black Mountain, N.
											Car., Clayton, Ga.,. and Tennessee. Morse's southern speciimens were taken at
											heights of 2,600 to 6,100 feet, and he mentions it as inhabiting "deciduous
											forests at high elevations."
										M. similis was described by Morse from three male specimens
											taken July 25 at Murphy, Cherokee Co., N. Car., in dry upland forests of pine
											and oak. It has since been recorded by R. & H. from near Bluemont, Va.,
											and several points in Rabun Co., Ga., and by Kostir from Vinton, Ohio,
										Including as synonyms deceptus and similis, the known range of viridipes is thus
											extended from New England southwest to Rabun Co., Ga. A pair of the Georgia
											specimens labelled similis, kindly loaned me by Davis, were
											found to be typical viridipes, the cerci having the tips
											rounded on dorsal side, not transversely excised. In the opinion of R.
												& H. (1916, 212) the M. juvencus
											Scudd. (1897b, 14) was based upon a specimen of viridipes placed by accident with his series of M.
												puer, the locality, Ft. Reed, Fla., being derived from one of the
											latter.
									

									
										Series II. THE DECORUM
												GROUP.

										Slender bodied species of small or medium size, having the general color pale
											brown or greenish-yellow with a dark shining postocular stripe extending back
											at least as far as metazona; hind tibiæ greenish-yellow; pronotum with median
											carina sharp, distinct throughout, hind margin subtruncate or broadly rounded,
											prozona one-half or more longer than metazona, sides of disk parallel, male,
											feebly divergent, female; tegmina oval, shorter 
											than pronotum, their inner margins not overlapping, the dorsal and anal fields
											not defined, tips broadly rounded; hind femora slender, equalling or feebly
											surpassing tip of abdomen, male, reaching base of ovipositor, female, their
											color nearly uniform, without dark cross-bars; extremity of male abdomen but
											little enlarged, feebly upcurved; furcula and cerci variable according to
											species; subgenital plate distinctly tapering from base to apex, the latter
											narrow, rarely tuberculate, but usually with a subapical tubercle. Five
											closely related forms comprise the group, all represented in the southern
											coastwise states and hygrophilous in habitat.
										
											Fig. 127. Outlines of cerci of males of Melanoplus. X 16.
													a, decorus; b, australis; c, attenuatus; d, hebardi; e,
													nubilus; f, deceptus; g, similis. The last two synonyms of viridipes. (After R. & H. and Morse.)
										

										
											KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF DECORUS GROUP.

											a. Postocular dark-stripe present but narrowed on metazona; middle
												of apical margin of subgenital plate of male projected upward as a distinct
												and slender tubercle; furcula one-third or more the length of supra-anal
												plate (Fig. 128, a.)161. DECORUS.
											aa. Postocular dark stripe ending abruptly at front margin of
												metazona; apical margin of subgenital plate without a tubercle, the plate
												usually with a blunt one below the margin.
											b. Sides of abdomen without black markings; apical third of male
												cerci spatulate, the tips broadly rounded (Fig. 127, b.)
													162. AUSTRALIS.
											bb. Sides of abdomen with a black stripe or blotches; apical third
												of cerci but slightly widened, the tips subtruncate, feebly bifid (Fig. 127,
													c, d, e.)
											c. Larger, length of body, male, 18.5--22; dorsal surface of abdomen
												pale.
											d. Prozona one-half longer than metazona; basal third of lateral
												margins of supra-anal plate incised to form a prominent broadly rounded
												overlapping fold; furcula slender, evenly tapering, about one-fourth as long
												as supra-anal plate (Fig. 128, c.) 163.
														ATTENUATUS.
											dd. Prozona nearly twice as long as metazona; basal marginal
												plications of supra-anal plate evident but feeble; furcula small knob-like
												plates with divergent angulate tips, scarcely one-fifth the length of
												supra-anal plate. (Fig. 128, d.) 163a.
														HEBARDI.


											

											cc. Smaller, males not over 16.8 mm. in length; dorsal surface of
												abdomen of male in great part fuscous; subapical tubercle of subgenital
												plate very distinct. 164. NUBILUS.
										

										
											Fig. 128. Dorsal views of supra-anal plates and furcula of males of Melanoplus. X 10. a, decorus; b, australis; c,
													attenuatus; d, hebardi; e, nubilus. (After R. & H.)
										

										
											161. MELANOPLUS DECORUS
												Scudder, 1897b, 13.

											Size small, slender; females more robust, much the larger. Brown, more
												or less infuscated, greenish-yellow beneath. Occiput, disk of pronotum,
												metapleuræ and sides of abdomen in great part fuscous. Face greenish-yellow
												flecked with fuscous; antennæ reddish-yellow, darker toward tips; cheeks,
												lower half of pronotal lobes and front and middle legs yellow. Tegmina pale
												brown. Hind femora reddish-yellow, the outer face often infuscate, knees in
												great part black, inner and lower faces bright yellow. Hind tibiæ pale
												green, spines black. Female duller, sometimes melanistic, then a nearly
												uniform fuscous brown. Interocular space narrower than first antennal joint,
												male, as wide as frontal costa, female. Fastigium narrowly and shallowly
												concave, male, more broadly so, female. Frontal costa narrow, feebly or not
												at all sulcate. Prozona two-thirds longer than metazona, its disk feebly
												convex, male, strongly rounded into lateral lobes, female; metazona nearly
												flat, finely rugose-punctate, hind margin subtruncate or very broadly
												rounded. Tegmina oval, reaching front margin of third abdominal segment,
												slightly shorter than pronotum, male, one-third shorter, female, their inner
												margins slightly separated, male, by one-half their width, female.
												Supra-anal plate of male elongate-triangular, apex subacute, margins of
												apical half thickened, convex and paralleled within by a pair of short blunt
												ridges, these strongly converging but not meeting near apex; median sulcus
												narrow on basal half of plate, expanded on apical half (Fig. 128, a.) Furcula elongate, tapering, divergent, lying on sides of
												basal median ridges. Cerci longer than supra-anal plate, basal third rather
												broad, strongly tapering, apical fourth feebly expanded, one-third as wide
												as base, strongly incurved, the tip broadly rounded (Fig. 127, a.) Length of body, ♂, 17--20, ♀, 20.5--25.3; of antennæ, ♂, 12, ♀,
												8.5; of pronotum, ♂, 4.1, ♀ 5.5; of tegmina, ♂, 4--4.8, ♀, 4; of hind
												femora, ♂ 9.5--11, ♀, 13 mm.
										

										This locust is known only from North Carolina, where it has been taken near
											Wilmington, Winter Park, Lake Waccamaw, Dingo Bluff and Newbern, Sept. 7--Nov.
											15. R. & H. (1916, 215) state that their specimens from
											Winter Park were found "among low plants and scant grasses about a swampy
											depression in pine woods; those from Wilmington in the wet mucky border of a
											swampy tract which was covered thickly with grasses, pitcher plants and venus'
											fly-traps, and dotted with low bushes."



										

										
											162. MELANOPLUS AUSTRALIS
												Morse, 1904a, 13. Southern Locust.

											Somewhat larger and more slender than decorus. Pale
												yellowish-green without fuscous markings on sides of abdomen. Postocular
												fuscous stripe of female frequently subobsolete or interrupted by narrow
												oblique yellowish-green fasciæ. Hind femora of female often with upper and
												outer faces in part infuscate; knees fuscous. Hind tibiæ grayish-green, the
												spines wholly black. . Prozona one-half longer than metazona, the latter
												with surface distinctly reticulate-rugose, its hind margin broadly rounded.
												Tegmina obovate, their tips broadly rounded. Supra-anal plate much as in decorus, but wider, with apex more blunt, the subapical
												internal ridges not converging as there but subparallel (Fig. 128, b.) Furcula one-third the length of supra-anal plate, feebly
												divergent, broad at base, abruptly narrowed near middle, then tapering on
												inner side to finger-like tips. Cerci slender, three times as long as broad,
												the middle third one-half or less the width of base, apical third
												subspatulate, thin, feebly incurved, convex and slightly carinate
												externally, concave internally (Fig. 127, b.) Upper margin
												of subgenital plate, viewed from above, broadly rounded or
												horse-shoe-shaped, the plate with a blunt subapical tubercle behind. Length
												of body, ♂, 16.4--22, ♀, 23--27; of antennæ, ♂, 12--13, ♀, 8--9; of
												pronotum, ♂, 5, ♀, 6.2; of tegmina, ♂, 3.5--4.5, ♀, 5--5.7; of hind femora,
												♂, 11.5, ♀, 13--14 mm.
										

										Known only from South Carolina and Georgia. Morse's unique male type was
											taken August 14 near Savannah, Ga., from a "tangled growth of grass, sedge,
											weeds, etc., on swampy ground." R. & H. found it in numbers at Yemassee,
											S. Car., and Sandfly, Ga., Sept. 3 and 4. They state (1916, 216) that it is
											the most brilliantly colored species of the group, ranging from lemon chrome
											suffused with greenish or orange, to army-brown showing a yellowish suffusion.
											The brighter colored individuals were "taken on green plants, the duller ones
											among the yellowish and brown fronds of the brackens. The males were active
											but not alert, and were easy to capture, the females much less active and
											usually met with in the heavier undergrowth where much greater concealment was
											afforded." The species was found at Yemassee among low swamp-loving plants in
											wet ground through the short-leaf pine woods; while at Sandfly and Isle of
											Hope, Ga., it occurred in tall rank succulent undergrowth such as patches of
											yellow and brown bracken ferns in swampy gray-bark pine woods.

										
											163. MELANOPLUS ATTENUATUS
												Scudder, 1897b, 13. Slender-bodied Locust.

											Size medium; form very slender. Color much as in decorus and australis; postocular black stripe
												confined to the prozona, strongly shining. Sides of four or five basal
												segments of abdomen with large quadrate black or fuscous blotches. Hind
												tibiæ pale dull green, basal third tinged with dull yellow, spines black,
												paler at base. Metazona densely punctate, less rugose than in austratis. Tegmina narrower, subelliptical, separated by about
												one-third their width, their tips broadly rounded. Supra-anal plate  much as in decorus, the
												subapical inner ridges less distinct, converging as there; the basal third
												of lateral margins incised and overlapping (Fig. 128, c.)
												Cerci very slender, the middle less than half the width of base, the apical
												third feebly widened, incurved and slightly grooved on outer face, its lower
												portion expanded and flattened to form a blunt lobe, the tip subtruncate and
												feebly emarginate (Fig. 127, c.) Subgenital plate much as
												in australis. Length of body, ♂, 18.5--20.6; of antennæ,
												9.5--10.5; of pronotum, 4.5; of tegmina, 4--4.2; of hind femora, 11--11.5
												mm.
										

										Magnolia, S. Car., Sept. 5 (Hebard). Scudder's types were
											taken in November at Smithville, N. Car. Morse has recorded it from Denmark,
											S. Car., and R. & H. (1916, 216) from Sullivan Island,
											Magnolia and Ashley Junction, S. Car., and Augusta, Ga. It occurs among low
											shrubs and grasses in swampy depressions in pine woods. The elongate, slender
											body, form of male cerci, shorter and broader subgenital plate and black sides
											of abdomen separate it from australis, to which it is
											otherwise very closely related. Only adult males have been recorded, though
											nymphs of both sexes were secured by R. & H. in July and August.

										
											163a. MELANOPLUS ATTENUATUS HEBARDI
												(Rehn), 1906, 235. Hebard's Short-winged Locust.

											Darker than attenuatus, dorsum and sides of abdomen
												often with a row of large pale spots. Prozona slightly longer; metazona more
												coarsely rugose. Tegmina shorter, more widely separated, their tips more
												rounded. Basal lateral margins of supra-anal plate more swollen and
												thickened, the median sulcus percurrent. "Tegmina about four-fifths the
												length of pronotum, subovate, the greatest width two-thirds the length,
												apical section rounded, subtruncate, separated above by a space equal to the
												width of frontal costa. Supra-anal plate elongate-triangular with sides in
												more than distal half straight, convergent, its surface very decidedly
												flattened with median sulcus less pronounced than in decorus and distal convergent ridges subobsolete (Fig. 128, d.) Furcula as described in key. Cerci tapering in the
												proximal half, slender mesad, distinctly expanded distad, rounded dorsad,
												and with a rectangulate lobule ventrad, the distal half distinctly bent
												mesad, and falling slightly short of the tip of supra-anal plate (Fig. 127,
													d.) Length of body, ♂, 22; of pronotum, 5; of tegmina,
												3.6; of hind femora, 12.5." (Rehn.)
										

										A comparison of a male taken by Fox at Macon, Ga., with the types of both attenuatus and hebardi showed that the two
											are very similar, differing only in the minor characters given above and in
											the key. The Macon specimen shows intermediate characters, the furcula closely
											resembling those of attenuatus, the cerci those of hebardi. As the two forms occur in the same general region and
											but few specimens of either are as yet known, there is little doubt but that
												hebardi will prove to be only a variety or race of attenuatus, and I have so placed it.



										

										Fox (Ms.) states that about Macon "hebardi is, next to scudderi, the most frequent of the short-winged Melanopli,
											occurring in the undergrowth of woods, especially in low wet areas."
										Rehn's unique male type, taken in Thomas Co., Ga., Jan. 6, is the only adult
											so far recorded. Several nymphs were found by R. & H. at Albany, Ga., on
											August 1, in the "heavy undergrowth of the long-leaf pine forest along the
											Flint River."

										
											164. MELANOPLUS NUBILUS
												Rehn & Hebard, 1916, 217.

											Size small for the group. Color of decorus, the males
												with dark postocular stripe ending at front margin of metazona, and dorsal
												surface as well as sides of abdomen fuscous. Females with postocular stripe
												on prozona subobsolete or interrupted and only the basal thirds of abdominal
												segments black. Prozona one-half longer than metazona, the latter with sides
												subparallel, surface rugose-reticulate and hind margin broadly rounded.
												Tegmina as in attenuatus. Supra-anal plate much as in decorus and australis, but somewhat
												shorter, the subapical internal ridges feebly converging and uniting to form
												the apex of the plate (Fig. 128, e.) Furcula very slender,
												subparallel, finger-like projections, about one-fourth the length of the
												supra-anal plate. Cerci very slender, the apical third feebly widened, its
												dorsal portion flattened and tips subtruncate and distinctly emarginate
												(Fig. 127, e.) Length of body, ♂, 15.8--16.8, ♀, 21.2--25;
												of pronotum, ♂, 3.7--4.1, ♀, 4.9--5.3; of tegmina, ♂, 2.6--3.8, ♀, 3.8--4.5;
												of hind femora, ♂, 9.3--10, ♀, 12.4--13.1 mm. (Fig. 129, a.)
										

										This form is recorded only from the type locality, Fayetteville, N. Car.,
											Sept. 9. It also appears to be very closely related to attenuatus, and a large series will probably prove that attenuatus, hebardi and nubilus are but forms of a
											single species varying slightly in color and in the structure of the male
											abdominal appendages. R. & H. (1916, 219) state that nubilus "was taken in short-leaf pine woods around a mill pond
											at Fayetteville. The males were occasional on gall-berry and other bushes and
											were found usually two or three feet from the ground, sitting up warily or
											jumping away, while the females were decidedly less abundant and less active
											and by hiding often eluded pursuit."
									

									
										Series III. THE OBOVATIPENNIS GROUP.

										This group comprises small or medium sized species, all of which agree in
											having the general color dull brown above, greenish-yellow beneath, with a
											shining postocular black stripe, usually extending back the full length of the
											pronotal lateral lobes and down the metapleuræ; hind tibiæ dull
											greenish-yellow with black spines; pronotum with sides of disk subparallel,
											male, strongly divergent on metazona, female, median carina low but distinct
											throughout; prozona one-half or more longer than  metazona; tegmina oval or obovate, rarely over two-thirds the length of
											pronotum, their upper inner margins distinctly separated in both sexes, dorsal
											and anal fields not defined, tips broadly rounded; hind femora slender,
											slightly surpassing tip of abdomen, male, reaching tip or base of ovipositor,
											female; furcula and cerci variable, according to species; subgenital plate
											rather broad, feebly narrowed above, rarely strongly tuberculate.
										Six species and one variety comprise the group, all represented in our
											territory; five of them being known only from south of the Ohio River. They
											inhabit, for the most part, dry hillside thickets and wooded mountain
											slopes.

										
											KEY TO SPECIES OF THE OBOVATIPENNIS GROUP.

											a. Subgenital plate of male not strongly projected upward and
												backward into a prominent tubercle; vertex but moderately projecting in
												front of eyes.
											b. Sides of abdomen without distinct fuscous stripes or blotches for
												two-thirds or more its length; tips of male cerci not obliquely excised with
												lower angle pointed and decurved.
											c. Hind margin of metazona without a trace of median notch; furcula
												cylindrical, tapering.
											d. Subgenital plate of male without a subapical tubercle; cerci of
												male truncate at tip (Pl. III, d.)165.
														OBOVATIPENNIS.
											dd. Subgenital plate of male with a distinct but feeble subapical
												tubercle; tips of male cerci broadly rounded. 166. TEPIDUS.
											cc. Hind margin of metazona with a minute but distinct median notch;
												cerci of male obliquely rounded at tip; furcula very broad at base, abruptly
												narrowed and more or less angled or bifid at middle. (Pl. III, f.) 167. MORSEI.
											bb. Sides of abdomen with a distinct and sharply defined fuscous
												stripe or fuscous blotches, sometimes wanting in female; tips of male cerci
												usually obliquely excised with lower angle pointed and decurved.
											e. Dark stripe of lateral lobes narrow and sharply defined from the
												pale ventral portion in both sexes; prosternal spine conical, acutely
												pointed; tips of male cerci with pronounced lower angle (Fig. 129, b.)
											f. Furcula short, flattened, distant, parallel finger-like
												projections about as long as the last dorsal segment. 168.
														TRIBULUS.
											ff. Furcula much wider and longer, feebly tapering, flattened from
												enlarged bases, their length one-third that of supra-anal plate. 168a. TRIBULOIDES.
											ee. Dark stripe of lateral lobes broader, and in the female feebly
												defined, with lower portion more or less infuscated; prosternal spine
												cylindro-conic, bluntly pointed; tips of cerci with lower angle blunt (Fig.
												129, c.) 169. DEVIUS.
											aa. Subgenital plate of male strongly projected upward and backward
													 into a prominent apical tubercle (Fig. 129,
													d.); vertex in both sexes strongly protuberant in front
												of eyes. 170. DECORATUS.
										

										
											Fig. 129. a, Outline of M. nubilus X 2;
													b, cercus of male of M. tribulus; c,
												same of M. devius X 16; d, end of
												abdomen of male of M. decoratus X 6. (After R. & H.
												and Morse.)
										

										
											165. MELANOPLUS OBOVATIPENNIS
												(Blatchley), 1894, 241. Obovate-winged Locust.

											Male below the medium in size for the genus, female much larger and more
												robust. Above dull grayish-brown or tan, with the dark fuscous postocular
												stripe as described above, this bordered below by an ivory-white band
												extending back from cheek, covering the lower half of lateral lobe, then
												curving down between the front and middle coxæ; metapleura ivory-white.
												Below dirty yellowish-brown with lower face of femora orange-yellow. Hind
												femora with two indistinct blackish bars on upper and outer faces; knees
												black. Hind tibiæ olive-green, annulate with whitish near base. Abdomen
												tinged with fuscous, rarely with dark blotches on sides of one or two basal
												segments. Antennæ with basal half reddish-brown, apical half fuscous.
												Interocular space nearly twice, male, or more than twice, female, the width
												of basal joint of antennæ; fastigium strongly decfivent, narrowly and
												shallowly sulcate, male, broadly depressed with distinct raised margins,
												female. Frontal costa about the width of interocular space, distinctly
												sulcate, male, slightly depressed about the ocellus, female. Pronotum rather
												long, faintly, male, distinctly, female, widening on metazona; hind margin
												truncate in female, a little rounded in male; prozona nearly twice as long
												as the densely punctate metazona. Tegmina about two-thirds the length of
												pronotum, obovate or broadly ovate in out line, a little longer than their
												greatest width, their inner edges widely separated, female, less widely but
												never attingent, male. Wings represented by a slender oblong scale.
												Supra-anal plate elongate-triangular, its apex rather blunt, margins and
												median basal ridges very low, the former but slightly recurved, the latter
												enclosing a narrow and shallow sulcus, which ends slightly beyond the middle
												of plate. Furcula consisting of a pair of tapering, cylindrical, diverging
												processes about one-third the length of' supra-anal plate. Cerci rather
												slender, feebly incurved, middle third but little more than half the width
												of base, apical third again somewhat widened and slightly excavated on outer
												face, the apex subtruncate. Subgenital plate almost as broad as long, the
												apical margin not elevated. Length of body, ♂, 15--16, ♀, 24--29; of
												antennæ, ♂, 10, ♀, 9.5--10.2; of pronotum, ♂, 4.5, ♀ 6; of tegmina, ♂,
												3--3.5, ♀, 4--4.3; of hind femora, ♂, 10, ♀, 12.5--13.2 mm. (Fig.
												130.)
										

										This olive-brown, short-winged locust probably occurs throughout the southern
											two-thirds of Indiana, but has not been taken 
											north of Tippecanoe Co. In central Indiana it reaches maturity about September
											1, and frequents, for the most part, high, dry, open woods, especially those
											in which beech and oak trees predominate. On the tops of the hills, in the
											coal district of Vigo Co., and on the wooded slopes of the Knobs of southern
											Indiana, where the soil is a clay, and the herbaceous vegetation somewhat
											limited, it is, in mid-autumn, the prevailing, and often only, representative
											of the family. While mostly xerophytic in habitat, in late October, if the
											season is dry, it is often found in company with Dichromorpha
												viridis and Truxalis brevicornis among the reeds and
											tall rank grasses near the border of marshes, and as late as November 22, has
											been noted enjoying the afternoon sunshine from a perch on the bottom plank or
											rail of a fence. About Lafayette Fox (1915, 26) found it only in
											the herbaceous thickets surrounding marshes or damp spots. The females are
											always much more numerous than the males, the ratio being about five to one.
											Their larger, robust form renders them more clumsy and hence more easily
											caught by the hand, the males being active leapers and requiring quick
											movement on the part of the collector to effect their capture. Like the other
											short-winged sylvan species, obovatipennis often appears in
											colonies, a score or more being sometimes noted within an area of a few square
											rods and then no others seen for a long distance.
										
											Fig. 130. Female. X 1.5 (Original.)
										
										The known range of M. obovatipennis extends from southern
											Ohio (Kostir) and north-central Indiana west to Missouri and
											south and southwest to Tennessee, Arkansas, Oklahoma and Texas. Scudder
												(1897, 265) records it from High Bridge and Mammoth Cave, Ky., St.
											Louis, Mo., and Dallas, Texas. Fox (Ms.) reports it as occurring near
											Clarksville, Tenn. McNeill (1899a, 369) states that it is a
											rather uncommon species in Washington and Sebastian counties, Ark., and that
											it is the species recorded by him (1891, 77) as Pezotettix
												mancus Smith from Running Lake, Ill. Hart (1906, 81)
											states that it occurs on "'high wooded hillsides throughout Illinois."
												Morse (1907, 50) mentions it as "a very common species in
											xerophytic upland forests in Arkansas and probably much of the territory of
											the adjoining States," and records it from numerous stations in Arkansas and
											from Howe and South McAlester, Okla. These are the only definite records which
											have been found of its occurrence.


										

										
											166. MELANOPLUS TEPIDUS
												Morse, 1906, 121.

											Size and form of obovatipennis. Color much as there,
												the dark postocular stripe more shining, broader, deflexed to cover all
												three pleurae. Interocular space narrower, more deeply sulcate; eyes
												slightly larger. Pronotum a little more elongate, its sides more divergent
												on metazona; disk more tectiform, the prozona finely alutaceous; lateral
												lobes longer, less deep. Tegmina of male more elongate, less widely
												separated; of female somewhat broader, more approximate above. Furcula
												shorter, less tapering, their bases more swollen; apical halves
												subdepressed, the tips obtuse. Cerci with apical halves broadly and deeply
												sulcate without. Upper valves of ovipositor narrower at base in side view,
												the dorsum of scoop longer and more narrow.
										

										Three pairs taken by Morse at Meridian, Miss., July 16, 1905. No additional
											records or notes regarding the habits can be found. He stated (1907, 23) that
											"the range of Melanoplus obovatipennis has been extended
											south to southern Mississippi in the nearly related form tepidus, which may intergrade." A comparison of his types with obovatipennis shows that the two differ as shown above, tepidus, in my opinion, being a very distinct form.

										
											167. MELANOPLUS MORSEI
												Blatchley, 1903, 309. Morse's Locust.

											Male below the medium in size, female larger and more robust. Grayish or
												purplish-brown above, greenish-yellow below. Face greenish-yellow more or
												less sprinkled with fuscous; the usual postocular stripe shining black,
												bordered below with greenish-yellow. Tegmina wood-brown. Hind femora
												reddish-brown, sometimes with a fuscous tinge in female, upper and inner
												faces usually with two faint fuscous cross-bars; knees shining black; hind
												tibiæ pale green. Vertex but little swollen, not at all, male, or slightly
												female, elevated above the pronotum; interocular space about as wide, male,
												or less than one and one-half times as wide, female, as basal joint of
												antennæ; fastigium gently sloping, distinctly angulate at middle of each
												side, sulcate in male, flat in female. Frontal costa slightly wider than
												basal joint of antennæ, feebly sulcate below the ocellus in male. Eyes of
												male very prominent. Disk of pronotum faintly expanding on metazona, male,
												distinctly throughout, female; median carina low, subobsolete on posterior
												third of prozona, the latter nearly twice the length of the rather coarsely
												punctate metazona. Tegmina broadly ovate or subrounded, as broad as long, in
												female a little shorter than pronotum, their inner edges separated by a
												space equal to two-thirds their width. Supra-anal plate as in obovatipennis, the shallow and narrow medium sulcus usually
												percurrent. Furcula as described in key, the outer fingers slender, feebly
												divergent, reaching nearly to middle of supra-anal plate, the inner ones
												forming a very short process or angulation (Pl. III, f.)
												Cerci rather broad, subfalcate, the middle third more than one-half the
												width of base, the apical third expanded and curved upward or forward,
												excavated on the outer face. Subgenital plate longer than broad, distinctly
												narrowing from below upward, its apical margin subelliptical. Length of
												body, ♂, 17--18, ♀, 23--25; of antennæ, ♂, 10--11, ♀, 8--9; of pronotum, ♂,
												4--5, ♀, 5.5;  of tegmina, ♂, 4, ♀, 5; of hind
												femora, ♂, 10--11, ♀, 12--13 mm. (Fig. 131.)
										

										This small brown locust was originally described from numerous specimens
											taken in Crawford and Lawrence counties, Ind., between June 24 and July 15,
											and has not since been noted in the State. Near Wyandotte, Crawford Co., it
											occurred only along roadsides and in bare limestone glades on the crests and
											upper slopes of the high wooded hills. In Lawrence County it was found to be
											rather common in mid-July among the underbrush of high wooded slopes on the
											State University farm, three miles southeast of Mitchell. Here the soil was
											very sparsely vegetated, sedges and wild asters being the prevailing herbs.
											The ground was covered with the dead leaves of the last season, with whose
											colors the hues of the locusts so blended that they were invisible while
											motionless. The males leap briskly when approached, but only for a short
											distance. The heavier bodied females are more clumsy, and are easily caught
											with the hand.
										
											Fig. 131. Male. X 1.5. (Original.) 
										
										In color and general appearance this locust bears a close resemblance to M. obovatipennis, but on comparing the two, morsei is easily distinguished by its less prominent head, larger
											eyes, narrower interocular space, more feebly sulcate frontal costa, longer
											antennæ of male, more coarsely punctate metazona, broader tegmina of female
											and especially by the form of the male cerci and furcula. It reaches maturity
											some time in June, while adults of obovatipennis have not
											been noted till the last days of August.
										The general range of morsei is probably southern, the only
											records outside of Indiana being from Hocking Co., Ohio (Kostir), and Hattiesburg, Miss. At the latter place Morse mentions
											(1907, 50) the finding of a pair in woodland on sandy river-bottom land in
											company with M. viola. These he states were very large, the
											male measuring 22, the female 28 mm. in length of body. The locust should be
											found on dry woodland slopes in various localities in the southern thirds of
											Indiana and Ohio, and throughout Kentucky and Tennessee.

										
											168. MELANOPLUS TRIBULUS
												Morse, 1904a, 11.

											Size medium, form of obovatipennis. Dark reddish-brown
												above, white and flavescent beneath. Postocular stripe continued into
												fuscous of sides of abdomen. Hind femora with indications of oblique fuscous
												bars, the knees fuscous. Hind tibiæ glaucous with black spines. Disk of
												pronotum somewhat convex above, once and a half, female, or twice, male, as
													 long as wide, midcarina distinct,
												percurrent, hind margin slightly convex, emarginate. Tegmina broadly ovate,
												about three-fourths as long as, pronotum. Male abdomen subclavate,
												considerably upturned. Subgenital plate with sides much expanded basally,
												the ventral face very short, convex, terminating in a very short blunt
												subapical fuscous tubercle. Supra-anal plate shield-shaped, with convex
												sides abruptly narrowed to terminate in an acute point with straight sides.
												Furcula as described in key. Cerci slender, three times as long as basal
												width, tapering in basal third to about half the basal width, equal in
												middle fourth, expanded slightly distally into a laminate obliquely excised
												tip, the upper angle rounded, the lower acutely pointed, the whole organ
												gently incurved, the tip slightly decurved (Fig. 129, b.)
												Length of body, ♂, 18.5--19, ♀, 26; of antennæ, ♂, 10.5, ♀, 8; of tegmina,
												♂, 3.5--4.3, ♀, 4.5; of hind femora, ♂, 10.5, ♀, 12.5 mm.
										

										Great Falls and Round Hill, Va. (Davis). Morse's types were
											taken in highland forest on the summit of Sharptop Mountain, near Jasper, Ga.,
											July 26. It ranges from Staten Island, N. Y., southern Pennsylvania and
											Stafford's Forge, N. J., southwest to Georgia, occurring among the undergrowth
											of deciduous forest and thickets on hillsides and mountain slopes.

										
											168a. MELANOPLUS TRIBULUS TRIBULOIDES
												Morse, 1906, 121.

											"Similar to M. tribulus but with the digits of the
												furcula much wider and longer, flattened from enlarged bases, in length
												equalling or exceeding the middle breadth of the cerci; the cerci narrower
												in the middle." (Morse.)
										

										The above is the short original description based on two males, three
											females, taken at a height of of 2,000--2,400 feet on Cheawha Mountain,
											Alabama, and one male, two females, at 1,000 feet near the base of the
											mountain. No other records can be found. A comparison of the types of the two
											forms tribulus and tribuloides show that
											they differ only in the form and length of the furcula as shown in key. In tribulus they lie outside the median basal ridges, in tribuloides on the ridges. Since the furcula of M. gracilis and other short-winged Melanoplus are
											known to vary much in size and shape, tribuloides is
											considered as only a variety of tribulus.

										
											169. MELANOPLUS DEVIUS
												Morse, 1904a, 12.

											Very similar to M. tribulus, the males almost
												inseparable, but having the prosternal spine stouter and more blunt; furcula
												longer, more tapering and less distant; cerci with apical half black or
												fuscous, "equal or a little expanded apically, laminate, transversely
												excised at apex, the upper angle more rounded than the lower, the dorsal
												margin sinuous, the ventral one concave." (Morse.) Females
												more robust than in tribulus with more widely infuscated
												lateral lobe of pronotum, the tegmina apically narrower and more acutely
												rounded (very broadly so in tribulus); hind margin of
												metazona scarcely emarginate at middle, valves of ovipositor shorter and  broader. Length of body, ♂, 17--20, ♀,
												22--26.5; of antennæ, ♂, 9--10, ♀, 7.5--8.5; of tegmina, ♂, 2.5--3, ♀,
												2.8--3.5; of hind femora, ♂, 10--11.5, ♀, 11.5--13 mm.
										

										Specimens at hand from the U. S. National Museum and Morse collections are
											from Jefferson, N. Car., and Wytheville, Va., Aug. 15--Sept. 4. Morse's types
											were from the latter place and Topton, N. Car. ,and were taken in dry mountain
											forests at elevations of 3,000 to 4,000 feet. Its known range extends from
											Wytheville and Bolar, Va., through the Carolinas to Mountain City, Ga. It
											occurs for the most part in rather scant undergrowth of heavy deciduous
											forests on the mountain slopes.

										
											170. MELANOPLUS DECORATUS
												Morse, 1904a, 12.

											Size rather small and form slender for the group. Dark reddish-brown,
												greenish-yellow beneath, the postocular shining black stripe extending back
												nearly or quite to end of abdomen, male, sometimes rather faint, female.
												Upper and outer faces of hind femora usually with feeble fuscous cross-bars.
												Hind tibiæ dull greenish-yellow, with a blackish annulus near base and often
												more or less infuscate near tip. Median carina of pronotum faint on basal
												third of prozona. Hind margin of metazona truncate or nearly so. Tegmina
												asymmetrically obovate, the costal margin more convex, the tips rather
												broadly rounded. Supra-anal plate broadly triangular, the sides upcurved to
												form broad, rather deep concavities each side the narrow median sulcus,
												which extends from base to apical third, then widens between two short and
												converging higher ridges. Furcula rather broad at base, tapering, divergent,
												lying outside the bases of the median ridges. Cerci with apical third
												widened, concave without, the apex subrounded, with ventral alpical angle
												somewhat produced. Subgenital plate with apical tubercle strongly enlarged,
												produced and curved upward so that the ventral length of the plate is almost
												or quite equal to its basal depth (Fig. 129, d.) Length of
												body, ♂, 15--18, ♀, 21.5--25; of antennæ, ♀, 8.5--9.5, ♀, 8--9; of tegmina,
												♂ and ♀, 3.5--4; of hind femora, ♂, 9.5--11, ♀, 10.7--12 mm.
										

										Clarksville, Tenn., June 27-July 7 (Fox). Morse's types
											were from Wytheville, Va., Murphy and Topton, N. Car., and Blue Ridge, Ga.,
											July 25--Sept. 4; taken among low shrubs in dry mountain forests at elevations
											of 1,700 to 4,000 feet. R. & H. (1916, 220) record it also
											from Orange, Va., and Clayton and Macon, Ga. It is a very distinct species,
											the males being readily recognized by the peculiar prolonged subgenital
											tubercle, which, as Morse says, "appears more like a malformation than other-
											wise."
									

									
										Series IV. THE PUER
												GROUP.

										Species of small or very small size, with general hue reddish- or
											grayish-brown, often more or less tinged or mottled with fuscous; postocular
											black or fuscous stripe present and extending 
											back at least as far as metazona, male, often subobsolete, female; hind tibiæ
											glaucous or pale greenish-blue, often yellowish at base and tip, the spines
											black or pale at base; disk of pronotum with sides distinctly but feebly
											divergent, male, more strongly so, female, median carina low but distinct
											throughout, prozona one-half or more longer than metazona; prosternal spine as
											described in key to Series; tegmina shorter than pronotum, oval or obovate,
											usually well separated but sometimes attingent or nearly so, their tips
											usually subtruncate, more often so in female; hind femora rather stout,
											distinctly surpassing abdomen, male, reaching or slightly surpassing its tip,
											female. Male abdominal appendages variable according to species.
										Seven species of the group are known, all from the southern coastwise states.
											The males are readily separated by the characters given in the following key.
											The females are very similar in structure and general appearance, and no
											satisfactory key can be made for their determination.

										
											Fig. 132. Outlines of cerci of males of Melanoplus. X 10.
													a, pygmcus; b, stegocercus; c, scapularis; e, mirus; f,
													strumosus; d, apex of male abdomen of M.
													rotundipennis, showing form of cercus and p, the strongly elevated
												pallium. X 4. (After Davis, R. & H. and Scudder.)
										

										
											KEY TO SPECIES OF PUER GROUP.

											a. Furcula very short or absent; supra-anal plate of male without
												deep subapical lateral emarginations, which give its apex a trilobate
												appearance.
											b. Furcula distinct but very short (Fig. 133, a);
												tegmina separated by one-half or more the width of one of them.
											c. Hind margin of metazona with a distinct but small median notch;
												cerci of male substyliform, very slender, feebly tapering beyond the
												thickened base (Fig. 133, a, b); pallium not elevated
												above the tip of subgenital plate. 171. PUER.
											cc. Hind margin of metazona rarely with a very minute median notch;
												cerci laminate, the apical third slightly wider than the middle; pallium
												conical, strongly elevated above the apex of subgenital plate (Fig. 132, d.) 172. ROTUNDIPENNIS.



											

											bb. Furcula wholly absent; tegmina usually less widely separated,
												often attingent.
											d. Subgenital plate not greatly produced backward in the form of a
												conical scoop; cerci not as in dd. below.
											e. Cerci subspatulate, the apex larger and more evenly rounded than
												in rotundipennis (Fig. 132, a); apex of
												subgenital plate produced into a short rounded knob; tegmina separated by
												1.5 mm. 173. PYGMӔUS.
											ee. Cerci not subspatulate; subgenital plate without an apical knob;
												tegmina subattingent or feebly overlapping.
											f. Cerci broad at base, thence with sides. almost straight, feebly
												widening into a broad subrectangular plate, its apex either suttruncate or
												broadly rounded (Fig. 132, b); tegmina of female obovate,
												the tips subtruncate. 174. STEGOCERCUS.
											ff. Cerci broad at base, the apical half expanding into a lamellate
												plate resembling a scapula with apex broadly obtusely emarginate (Fig. 132,
													c); tegmina of female elongate-oval their tips broadly
												rounded. 175. SCAPULARIS.
											dd. Subgenital plate greatly produced and compressed into a conical
												scoop with sharply rounded apex; cerci moderately broad at base, then
												narrowing sharply on dorsal margin to half the basal width at middle, again
												expanding to basal width and finally gradually narrowing to a sharp angle
												(Fig. 132, e.) 176. MIRUS.
											aa. Furcula nearly half as long as supra-anal plate, the latter with
												deep subapical lateral emarginations which give its apex a trilobate aspect
												(Fig. 133, f.) 177. STRUMOSUS.
										

										
											Fig 133. a and b, Dorsal and side views
												of apex of male abdomen of M. puer. X 1.5. Supra-anal
												plates of males of Melanoplus. c, stegocercus; d, mirus; e,
													scapularis; f, strumosus. X 10. (After R. & H.)
										

										
											171. MELANOPLUS PUER
												(Scudder), 1877a, 87. Least Short-winged Locust.

											Very small for both genus and group, the females one-third the larger.
												Above dull reddish-brown; beneath dull yellow. Face yellow, usually dotted
												with small fuscous spots; occiput, disk of pronotum and dorsum of abdomen
												dark reddish-brown. Male with upper half of prozonal lateral lobe, meso- and
												metapleura and sides of two or three basal segments of abdomen shining
												black; female with these dark markings often vague. Hind femora dull yellow,
												their upper and inner faces usually bifasciate with fuscous; lower face
												reddish-yellow. Hind tibiæ purplish-green, the base and tip dull yellow
												mottled with brown; spines black, pale at base. Interocular space narrow, as
												broad as, male, or but slightly broader, female, than first antennal joint.
												Fastigium strongly declivent, widened and broadly sulcate in front of eyes.
												Frontal costa narrow, shallowly sulcate at and below the ocellus. Eyes
												subelliptical, those of male very prominent 
												and longer than the cheek below them. Pronotum with disk flat and sides
												nearly parallel, male, rounded and distinctly divergent behind, female;
												prozona one-half longer than metazona, the latter densely and finely
												rugose-punctate. Tegmina elongate-oval or obovate, twice as long as broad,
												their tips subtruncate. Extremity of male abdomen feebly swollen, but little
												upcurved. Supra-anal plate short, broadly triangular, apex subacute, side
												margins feebly elevated to form a large shallow concavity each side of the
												rather wide, tapering median basal sulcus which reaches only middle of
												plate. Furcula consisting of a pair of very short, divergent, oblong
												processes lying on the bases of the median ridges (Fig. 133, a,
													b.) Cerci as described in key, feebly incurved, shorter than
												supra-anal plate, their tips blunt. Subgenital plate small, subconical, the
												apex ending in a slight erect tubercle. Length of body, ♂, 10--16, ♀,
												16--21; of antennæ, ♂, 5.5--6, ♀, 6.5--7; of pronotum, ♂, 3--4, ♀, 4.2--5;
												of tegmina, ♂, 2.2--3, ♀, 2.5--3.5; of hind femora, ♂, 7.5--8.5, ♀, 9--11.5
												mm.
										

										Miami, Ft. Myers, Sarasota and Dunedin, Fla., Dec.-April (W. S.
												B.). This, the smallest known species of the genus, is known only from
											the mainland of the southern two-thirds of Florida. Scudder's types were from
											Ft. Reed and it has been recorded from numerous localities south of that
											place. The species varies much in size and color, some males at hand from
											Sarasota being but 10 mm. in length, while R. & H. record a series from
											Miami (1912) ranging from 13.5--17 and females 19--22.5 mm. in length. About
											Dunedin puer is the only short-winged Melanoplus so far taken and occurs sparingly in both nymph and adult
											stages throughout the winter, mating from mid-January to April. It is found
											for the most part in small colonies in the wire-grass about moist places and
											along pathways in open pine woods, while in early spring it is often taken by
											sweeping huckleberry and other low shrubs. The males are rather slow to flush
											but very active after being once frightened. The living females are often a
											handsome purplish-gray in general hue and are much more sluggish in their
											movements. Several of the Dunedin males have the black postocular stripe very
											shining, extending back the full length of pronotum and half or more the
											length of abdomen.

										
											172. MELANOPLUS ROTUNDIPENNIS
												(Scudder), 1877a, 86. Round-winged Locust.

											Size small for the genus, medium for the group. Color much as in puer, the black postocular stripe extending back nearly to
												middle of abdomen, male, only to metazona, female; meso- and metapleura
												black, the latter with crest yellow. Upper and inner faces of hind femora
												usually bifasciate with fuscous, the bars sometimes lacking in female; hind
												tibiæ dull glaucous, tinged with yellow near base and apex. Vertex and
												fastigium much as in puer, the latter more shallowly
												sulcate in female; frontal costa more deeply sulcate below the ocellus. Disk
												of pronotum feebly convex and rounded into lateral lobes in both sexes,
												otherwise as in puer. 
												Tegmina elongate-ovate, one-third longer than broad, the tips subtruncate.
												Extremity of male abdomen strongly upcurved. Supra-anal plate broadly
												triangular, the apex obtuse; sides less elevated than in puer, the median basal sulcus much wider, more shallow and extending
												to apical third of the plate. Furcula very short, oblong, flattened, widely
												separated processes lying on the base of the median ridges; last dorsal
												segment almost separated at middle. Cerci rather stout, laminate, gradually
												narrowed to middle, the apical third slightly widened, feebly grooved
												without, the tips rounded and slightly incurved (Fig. 132, d.) Subgenital plate very small, feebly narrowed to apex, the apical
												margin but slightly elevated. Length of body, ♂, 13.6--17.5, ♀, 17--23; of
												antennæ, ♂, 7.5--8, ♀, 8--8.5; of pronotum, ♂, 3.5--4.5, ♀, 4.2--4.8; of
												tegmina, ♂, 3--3.8, ♀, 3.3--41; of hind femora, ♂, 9--11, ♀, 11--13
												mm.
										

										LaGrange and Gainesville, Fla., Sept. 9--12 (Davis. Other
											specimens at hand from the U. S. National Museum and Morse collections are
											from Cedar Keys, Ocala and Live Oak, August 10--15. The known range of rotundipennis is limited, extending, according to R.
												& H. (1916, 222), only from Brunswick to Thomasville, in southern
											Georgia and southward throughout northern and central Florida to Lakeland. It
											is the prevailing short-winged Melanoplus in northern
											Florida, occurring among the saw palmettoes and underbrush of open pine woods
											and "varying much in general color according to environment, from mottled
											grayish on sand to dark red-brown among dead leaves and other plant debris."
											The Melanoplus inops of Scudder (1897, 329) and
												R. & H. (1907, 295) is a synonym.

										
											173. MELANOPLUS PYGMӔS
												Davis, 1915, 96. Pygmy Locust.

											"Related to M. rotundipennis but differing in the
												distinctly broader and more truncate prosternal spine in both sexes, which
												is broader than long; and in the distinctive male genitalia. Size a little
												smaller and form more slender than in average rotundipennis. Color resembling the less heavily marked examples of
												that species; the hind femora with three fuscous blotches above, pale yellow
												beneath, male, weakly orange, female; hind tibiæ very pale blue with a
												slight purplish suffusion. Lateral lobes of pronotum almost immaculate in
												female. Dorsum of pronotum with lateral carinæ more divergent toward
												posterior margin than in rotundipennis. Eyes less
												protuberant; frontal costa distinctly sulcate throughout. Tegmina much the
												same, separated by a width of 1.2 mm. Supra-anal plate more elongate,
												distinctly longer than broad, the median ridge confined to basal third.
												Cerci as described in key (Fig. 132, a.) Length of body,
												♂, 14, ♀, 23; of pronotum, ♂, 3.3, ♀, 4.8; of tegmina, ♂, 2.8, ♀, 4; of hind
												femora, ♂, 9.7, ♀, 12.7 mm. Greatest width of tegmina, ♂, 1.8, ♀, 2.6; of
												hind femora, ♂, 2.3, ♀, 3.2 mm." (Davis.)
										

										The above, taken in connection with the key, presents the salient points of
											the original description of this species. It was described from a single pair
											taken by Mutchler and Watson at  DeFuniak
											Springs, Fla., Oct. 17--19, the types being in the American Museum of Natural
											History. Other specimens collected by R. & H. at the type locality, Aug.
											30, are in the Davis collection.

										
											174. MELANOPLUS STEGOCERCUS
												Rehn & Hebard, 1916, 223.

											Form of M. rotundipennis but slightly larger and more
												compact. Color much as there, the black postocular stripe extending the full
												length of pronotal lobes and along the sides to middle of abdomen. in both
												sexes. Dorsal surface of abdomen and outer face of hind femora often largely
												fuscous; upper and inner faces of hind femora with three blackish
												cross-bars. Disk of pronotum rounded into the lateral lobes, the lateral
												carinæ very faint, feebly divergent backward, male, more strongly so,
												female; hind margin of metazona rounded, without trace of median notch.
												Tegmina almost as broad as long, tips subtruncate, more distinctly so in
												female. Supra-anal plate elongate-triangular, the median basal ridges very
												broad, the sulcus between them wide, shallow, ill defined, percurrent or
												nearly so (Fig. 133, c.) Cerci as described in key, the
												apical sixth impressed. Subgenital plate rather narrow, subcompressed, about
												2 mm. in length, its apex narrowly rounded. Length of body, ♂, 15--17.5, ♀,
												19--22; of pronotum, ♂, 3.8--4, ♀, 4.8--5; of tegmina, ♂, 3--3.2, ♀,
												3.8--4.2; of hind femora, ♂, 10--11, ♀, 11.5--12.5 mm. (Fig. 134, a.)
										

										
											Fig. 134. Lateral outlines of males of Melanoplus. a,
													stegocercus; b, mirus; c, scapularis. X 2. (After R. & H.)
										

										The above description was drawn from a series of specimens in the
											Philadelphia collections taken by R. & H. near Groveland, Ga., Sept. 21.
											The unique male type collected by Bradley July 28, was from the same locality.
											There is no record of its occurrence elsewhere, nor of its habits.

										
											175. MELANOPLUS SCAPULARIS
												Rehn & Hebard, 1916, 226.

											Color and measurements as in stegocercus. The male
												differs in the form of cerci as described in key and shown in Fig. 132, the
												apical third being widely expanded, broadly emarginate, the upper outer lobe
												the longer with apex rounded. Subgenital plate a little shorter, less
												compressed with apex wider, subtruncate. The females differ only in having
												the tegmina a little more narrow with apex more evidently rounded (Fig. 134,
													c.)
										

										Known only from Jesup, Sandfly and Isle of Hope, Ga., and Woodville, Fla.,
											Sept. 1--3. At Jesup it was found "in a restricted area of a sandy tract
											covered with low bushy plants, such as Myrica pumila Michx.,
												Quercus minima Sarg., gall-berry bushes and saw
											palmettoes, and at the other localities "in scant  undergrowth of the slightly more elevated portions of the flat, almost
											swampy gray-bark pine woods." (R. & H.)
										Very close to stegocercus and may prove to be only a
											variety of that species.

										
											176. MELANOPLUS MIRUS
												Rehn & Hebard, 1916, 224.

											"Size and form similar to moderately large South Florida males of M. puer. Tegmina much as in M.
													rotundipennis, their apices more or less noticeably truncate.
												Extremity of abdomen tumid, greatly produced and upcurved. Supra-anal plate
												simple as in scapularis, but with lateral margins very
												weakly convex and converging evenly caudad (Fig. 133, d.)
												Cerci as described in key, all of the narrowing and widening due to the
												curvature of the dorsal margin, the ventral margin almost straight, the
												apices of the two cerci subattingent just beyond the distal extremity of the
												supra-anal plate (Fig. 132, e.) Disto-ventral abdominal
												segment produced mesad in a very small sharp point. Subgenital plate as
												described in key. Females closely resembling the large ones of M. puer, the principal sulcus more decided on dorsum of pronotum;
												smaller and more compact with shorter and more robust limbs than those of
													M. rotundipennis. Color much as in rotundipennis, the males with ventral margins of caudal femora
												sharply pale and quite striking, this marking broader proximad (Fig. 134,
													b.) Length of body, ♂, 15.5--16.2, ♀, 18.8--20; of
												pronotum, ♂, 3.6--3.8, ♀, 4.1--4.7; of tegmina, ♂, 3--3.7, ♀, 3.7--4.3; of
												hind femora, ♂, 9.4--9.8, ♀, 10.6--11.2 mm." (R. &
												H.)
										

										The above comprises the salient features of the original description. The
											species was described from three pairs taken at Weldon, N. Car., July 24,
											where it "was found very scarce in scattered woods of low pines and oaks, with
											a typical ammophytic undergrowth of huckleberry and other low bushes and
											plants. The insects were wary, but were found to hide constantly, so that by
											careful approach they were picked up with ease." No other record is known.

										
											177. MELANOPLUS STRUMOSUS
												Morse, 1904a, 11.

											Deep reddish-brown above, whitish or flavescent beneath. Postocular
												fuscous stripe indistinct female, deep black and extending on to abdomen,
												male. Hind femora very faintly obliquely bifasciate with fuscous. Hind tibiæ
												glaucous, paler at base and tip, the spines black tipped. Disk of pronotum
												twice, male, or once and a half female, as long as wide, midcarina
												percurrent. Prosternal spine prominent, flattened, subcylindric, slightly
												curved backward, apex transversely excised, the angles rounded. Tegmina
												small, obovate, two-thirds as long as pronotum, attingent or slightly
												separated, their tips broadly rounded. Male abdomen subclavate, the
												subgenital plate and preceding segment tumescent, broader than deep, greatly
												elongated, the former elongate scoop-shaped, bluntly rounded at apex.
												Supra-anal plate as described in key, its disk with a prominent transverse
												median ridge crossing two-thirds its width; furcula broad at base, then
												suddenly narrowed to finger-like projections whose tips reach the ends of
													 the transverse ridge, thus enclosing a
												shallow, subquadrate basal median sulcus (Fig. 133, f.)
												Cerci slender, two-thirds as long as supra-anal plate, tapering evenly in
												basal half to one-fourth the basal width, the apical half bent gently upward
												and inward, the tip slightly expanded, obliquely excised, with upper angle
												rounded, ventral one acute (Fig. 132, f.) Length of body,
												♂, 15--17, ♀, 17.5--26; of antennæ, ♂, 6, ♀, 7; of tegmina, ♂, 2.7, ♀,
												3.5--4; of hind femora, ♀, 10, ♀, 11.5--13 mm.
										

										Morse's types, which I have examined, were taken at Denmark, S. Car., and
											DeFuniak Springs, Fla., Aug. 5--15, from among shrubbery in open pine woods.
											The known range of the species extends from Fayetteville, N. Car., to Lookout
											Mountain, Alabama. R. & H. (1916, 228) record it from a
											number of localities in the Carolinas and Georgia, it having been found by
											them mainly among oak sprouts in pine woods and on mountain slopes. In the
											majority of their specimens the fuscous bars of hind femora were very faint or
											lacking, though in a few they were heavy and very pronounced.
									
									
										Fig. 135. a, b, c. Outlines of tegmen, cercus and furcula
											of M. mancus; d, e, dorsal and side views of apex of abdomen
											of M. islandicus; f, outlines of cercus of male of M. divergens; g, same of M. celatus; h, same
											of M. sylvestris. (After Morse and McDaniel.)
									

									
										Series V. THE MANCUS
												GROUP.

										This group consists of short, rather small robust species of a dull brown and
											clay-yellow hue, having the antennæ shorter than hind femora; pronotum rather
											short, feebly widening behind, more distinctly so in female, its disk
											obviously tectiform; prozona not over one-third longer than metazona, the
											latter with hind margin broadly rounded or very obtuse-angulate, median carina
											distinct only on metazona; tegmina oval, shorter than pronotum, their dorsal
											margins well separated, sometimes subattingent in male; prosternal spine
											short, blunt, conical or pyramidal; hind tibiæ red with black spines; abdomen
											compressed, carinate above, its extremity in male but little enlarged, feebly
											upcurved; supra-anal plate triangular, the usual median groove narrow; furcula
											small, triangular or subcylindrical projections lying on the bases of the
											median ridges; cerci usually short, nearly straight, substyliform or laminate;
											subgenital plate small, conical,  subpyramidal,
											erect, the apex not over one-fourth the width of base. Four species and one
											variety are known from our territory.

										
											KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF MANCUS GROUP.

											a. Cerci of male simple, not sub-bifurcate or boot-shaped.
											b. Lateral carinæ of pronotum wanting; subgenital plate of male
												strongly narrowed to a prolonged conical apex; tegmina of female with tips
												broadly evenly rounded (Fig. 135, a.) 178. MANCUS.
											bb. Lateral carinæ obvious, especially so on metazona of female;
												subgenital less narrowed and prolonged; tegmina of female with tips narrowly
												rounded or subangulate.
											c. Cerci of male strongly tapering, the apex much less than one-half
												the width of base (Fig. 135, d, h); prosternal spine
												stout, broad, the apex subtruncate or broadly rounded.
											d. Median sulcus of supra-anal plate percurrent; cerci shorter,
												their length not more than one-half more than their basal width, the apical
												fourth concave on outer side (Fig. 135,d.) 179. ISLANDICUS.
											dd. Median sulcus evanescent on apical half of supra-anal; cerci
												longer, much more attenuate, their length nearly twice their basal width,
												the apical fourth not concave without (Fig. 135, h.) 179a. SYLVESTRIS.
											cc. Cerci shorter, sublamellate, triangular, tapering much less
												rapidly to a flattened apex (Fig. 135 g); prosternal spine
												more slender, cylindro-conic, its apex narrowly rounded. 180. CELATUS.
											aa. Cerci of male sub-bifurcate or roughly boot-shaped, somewhat
												similar to those of M. confusus (Fig. 135, f.) 181. DIVERGENS.
										

										
											178. MELANOPLUS MANCUS
												(S. I. Smith), 1868, 149. Smith's Locust.

											Short, rather robust, the female much the larger. Dark brown above, dull
												clay yellow beneath, abdomen and hind femora reddish-brown; face
												greenish-yellow flecked with fuscous; antennæ dull yellow, dusky toward
												tips; the usual pisceous postocular stripe, fainter on metazona, bordered
												below by dull yellow; mesopleura and front half of metapleura black; sides
												of basal half of abdomen of male with a dark stripe, of female much flecked
												with fuscous. Lower face of hind femora yellow; knees in part fuscous; hind
												tibiæ deep red, male, paler red, female. Vertex feebly convex; interocular
												space as wide as frontal costa between the antennæ; fastigium strongly
												declivent, rather deeply sulcate, male, shallowly concave, female. Frontal
												costa narrowed above the antennæ, male, nearly equal throughout, female,
												feebly concave at and below the ocellus. Prozona one-fourth longer than
												metazona, its median carina obvious but low, transverse sulci deep; hind
												margin of metazona subtruncate or broadly rounded. Tegmina ovate, two-thirds
												the length of pronotum, separated by one-half their width, female, less than
												one-fourth, male. Prosternal spine rather short, conical, subdepressed,
												erect, blunt, male, shorter and more pointed, female. Supra-anal plate of
												male elongate-triangular, the side margins strongly elevated; median ridges
												low, terminating at middle; furcula 
												subcylindrical, finger-like, parallel projections lying on the bases of the
												median ridges. Cerci longer than supra-anal plate, the apical two-thirds
												narrow, of nearly equal width, incurved and feebly concave on outer face
												near tip (Fig. 135, a, b, c.) Length of body, ♂, 14--17.5,
												♀, 18--25; of antennæ, ♂, 6.5--7, ♀, 6.5--7.2; of pronotum, ♂, 4, ♀, 5; of
												tegmina, ♂, 2.5--3.5, ♀, 3.5--4.5; of hind femora, ♂, 8.3--9, ♀, 10--12
												mm.
										

										Speckled Mountain, Maine (Morse); North Madison, Conn.,
											Aug. 19--28 (W. S. B.). I first saw living specimens of this
											brown short-winged locust on the bare ledges of the Hammonasset River near
											North Madison, Conn., in August, 1896, where they were basking in the sunshine
											in company with Spharagemon saxatile Morse. It is known
											definitely only from four or five New England localities, Lake Hopatcong, N.
											J., and Central, Pa., and is usually found on mountain slopes at a height of
											2,500 to 3,300 feet, though often on hilltops at much lower levels.
												Morse (1898, 280) states that most of his specimens were taken
											on Speckled Mountain, Me., where: "It was plentiful, associated with Podisma glacialis among the various species of Vaccinium on the bare upper portions of the mountain. It is quite
											alert and agile, when approached springing suddenly and to a considerable
											distance, sometimes making several leaps in succession. It probably matures in
											late July or early August as it has been taken on the mountains from August 14
											to September 6." The Running Lake, Illinois, record of McNeill
												(1891) was based on a specimen of M. obovatipennis
											(Bl.).
										Two of the females at hand, one from Speckled Mountain, the other from North
											Madison, have the hind margin of pronotum with a distinct median notch, all
											the others being without trace of such emargination. All the males have the
											median ridges of supra-anal plate united just beyond the middle, the very
											narrow median sulcus therefore confined to the basal half of the plate and not
											percurrent as stated by Scudder (1897, 219) ; the apical third of
											the plate beyond the ridges being concave, but not sulcate.

										
											179. MELANOPLUS ISLANDICUS
												Blatchley, 1898a, 196. Island Locust.

											Males slender, size small for the genus; females larger, moderately
												robust. Dark wood-brown above, greenish-yellow below; antennæ uniform pale
												brownish-yellow. Face, lower halves of lateral lobes and metapleura dull
												yellow, ivory-white in life. Disk of pronotum dark brown, often with
												scattered vague dull yellow blotches; the usual dark bar on sides of prozona
												and abdomen distinct in male, vague in female. Hind femora with upper and
												inner faces faintly, obliquely bifasciate with fuscous. Hind tibiæ deep red
												with a vague black annulus near base. Frontal costa obviously but shallowly
												sulcate nearly throughout, male, only just below ocellus, female. Prozona
												but one-fifth longer than metazona, its median carina obsolete or but
												faintly indicated; lateral carinæ distinct on metazona, female, scarcely
												evident, male. Tegmina oval, about one-fourth 
												shorter than pronotum, their inner margins well separated. Supra-anal plate
												of male elongate-triangular, its median sulcus very narrow, percurrent or
												nearly so; furcula short, flattish oblong projections lying somewhat
												obliquely on the bases of the sharp narrow median ridges (Fig. 135, d, e.) Cerci as described in key. Subgenital plate erect,
												conical, its sides compressed and apex subacute. Length of body, ♂,
												14.5--17, ♀, 19--24; of antennæ, ♂, 6--7.5, ♀, 7--8.5; of pronotum, ♂, 4, ♀,
												5.5; of tegmina, ♂, 3.5--4, ♀, 4--5; of hind femora, ♂, 9--9.5, ♀,
												10.5--11.5 mm.
										

										LaSalle Island, Mich.; Steuben Co., Ind., August 11--19 (W. S.
												B.) ; DeGrassi Point, Ont. (Walker). The types of
											this species were taken by me on LaSalle Island, Aug. 17, 1897. They were
											found about the borders of a small clearing and along a narrow pathway through
											the dense spruce, birch and hemlock woods. When approached they would leap
											from the pathway into the mosses and liverworts bordering its sides, and there
											remain quiet while the intruder passed by. None were found at a distance of
											more than ten feet from this pathway, though especial search was made for
											them. On several subsequent visits to this and adjacent islands they were
											found fairly plentiful in similar habitats. Other locusts taken with them were
												Circotettix verruculatus (Kirby), Melanoplus
												dodgei huroni Bl., and Camnula pellucida Scudd. A
											single male of islandicus was taken from a path in a partly
											drained tamarack marsh near the border of Clear Lake, Steuben Co., Ind., Aug.
											11, 1905.
										Outside of these localities typical islandicus has been
											recorded only from DeGrassi Point, Ft. William, Aurora, Toronto and Georgian
											Bay, Ontario, and near Pequaming, Douglas Lake and Porcupine Mountains, Mich.
											At DeGrassi Point and Aurora Walker took his types of M.
												abortivus (Can. Ent. 1898, 92), a synonym of islandicus, "from openings in rich shady woods and on their borders,
											especially where the timber is of a coniferous growth. Seldom more than one or
											two were seen at once, though by diligent search specimens can be secured
											almost any day during the proper season, which lasts from the first week in
											July to the beginning of October." Near Pequaming Hebard (1909)
											found islandicus scarce and very local in distribution, only
											one colony of any size being found during three summers' collecting. This was
											in a growth of small hardwood trees. At Douglas Lake, Vestal
												(1914) took it in deep moist forests of beech, maple and hemlock,
											July 26--Aug. 12.

										
											179a. MELANOPLUS ISLANDICUS SYLVESTRIS
												Morse, 1904a, 10.

											"A near relative of islandicus, differing chiefly in
												the form of the male cerci (Fig. 135, h) which, while of
												the same general structure, are narrower at base and have the distal half
												bent slightly upward and drawn out  into a
												slender compressed, sub-styliform tip, the whole appendage being one and
												three-quarters or twice as long as the width of base." (Morse.) Females inseparable from those of islandicus. Furcula of males somewhat longer and stouter,
												finger-like projections lying parallel on or within the bases of the median
												ridges instead of somewhat obliquely across them as in islandicus.
										

										M. sylvestris was described from Blowing Rock, Linville and and
											Pineola, N. Car., the specimens being taken July 13 and August 28 in cold
											deciduous forests, where they were found leaping actively about among the
											undergrowth of Vaccinium, Gaultheria, Galax, etc., at
											elevations of 3,500 to 4,000 feet.
										Morse (loc. cit.) says: "The three species islandicus, celatus and sylvestris are evidently
											nearly related descendants of the same parent form, modified by isolation.
											Intergrades may yet be discovered." R. & H. (1916, 229)
											record sylvestris from several points in Rabun Co., Ga., and
											from Black Mountain, N. Car., and add: "This form is clearly an offshoot of
												M. islandicus as stated by Morse, probably but a
											geographic race." Since the form of the cerci, furcula, etc., are known to be
											extremely variable in other species of short-winged Melanoplus, I place sylvestris as a southern variety
											or race of islandicus.

										
											180. MELANOPLUS CELATUS
												Morse, 1904a, 10.

											Closely related to M. islandicus, agreeing with it in
												size, coloration, markings and form. The males differ in the form of cerci,
												as described in key (Fig. 135, g) and in having the
												furcula longer, more robust, lying parallel on the bases of the median
												ridges; subgenital plate wider, much less tapering, its apex narrowly
												rounded, not conical as in islandicus. Females scarcely
												separable, somewhat stouter, pronotum wider, tegmina larger, more
												approximate above.
										

										Monterey, Va., Aug. 20--Sept. 11 (Fox). Morse's types were
											from Wytheville, Va., where they were found in shrubby growth among pines on
											dry stony soil at a height of 3,000 to 3,500 feet. In the mountain sections of
											Virginia Fox has taken celatus at Jarman Gap, Monterey and
											Hot Springs, July 30--Sept. 7. He states (1917, 220) that it "appears to be
											very sporadic in distribution and usually very scarce. All specimens were
											taken in or close to open deciduous woods on mountain slopes in grassy or
											shrubby undergrowth."

										
											181. MELANOPLUS DIVERGENS
												Morse, 1904a, 8.

											Size and appearance of other members of the series, but easily
												distinguished by the sub-bifurcate cerci. General color as in the others,
												the fuscous markings on sides of hind femora more evident. Vertex blunt.
												Pronotum broad with flattened disk, subangulate at junction with lateral
												lobes, the midcarina distinct on metazona, absent on prozona. Prosternal
												spine short, usually conical with acutely pointed tip, sometimes much  broadened laterally with wide, bluntly rounded
												apex. Tegmina shorter than pronotum, ovate or ovate-lanceolate, usually
												covering second abdominal segment, subattingent in male, widely separated in
												female, their tips sharply rounded. Subgenital plate with apex truncate or
												slightly emarginate, the sides, viewed from above, nearly straight.
												Supra-anal plate longer than wide, triangular, pointed at apex, the sides
												convex. Furcula stout, feebly tapering parallel projections about equalling
												the last segment in length and lying on the bases of the median ridges.
												Cerci roughly boot-shaped, the base very broad, a little longer than wide;
												apical two-fifths bent abruptly upward at an angle of 35° or 40°, narrowed
												to about one-half the width of base and tapering to a broad, evenly rounded
												blunt apex; the dorsal margin at the angle or bend, deeply concave, ventral
												margin strongly angulate and beyond the angle straight or slightly concave,
												thus forming a sub-bifurcate organ as long as the supra-anal plate; the
												whole appendage being thick, strongly convex externally, especially on tip
												which is curved gently inward (Fig. 135, f.) Length of
												body, ♂, 9--10, ♀, 11--20; of antennæ, ♂, 6--6.5, ♀, 6--7; of tegmina, ♂,
												2--3, ♀, 2--4; of hind femora, ♂, 8.5--9.5, ♀, 9.5--11 mm.
										

										"Balsam, Jackson Co., N. Car., July 24--Aug. 19. Thirty-three specimens found
											in Vaccinium thickets and other low shrubbery in deciduous
											forests and clearings at an elevation of 5,000 to 6,000 feet." (Morse.)
										R. & H. (1910a, 634) record six additional specimens taken
											October 7 at the same place; the males exceeding Morse's measurements by 4
											mm.
									

									
										Series VI. THE SCUDDERI GROUP.

										Species of medium or small size and rather robust form, having the general
											color grayish or russet-brown with the usual dark postocular stripe of the
											genus feebly developed, often absent in females; hind tibiæ red with black
											spines; disk of pronotum relatively short with sides subparallel, male, feebly
											divergent backward, female, surface slightly convex or feebly tectiform,
											median carina low, distinct throughout; prozona not over one-half longer than
											metazona, the latter finely rugose-punctate with hind margin obtuse-angulate
											or broadly rounded; tegmina usually about as long as or slightly longer than
											pronotum, oval or sub-lanceolate, their dorsal margins attingent or
											overlapping, tips subacuminate or obliquely rounded, dorsal and lateral fields
											feebly if at all defined; prosternal spine stout, subcylindrical, with blunt
											rounded apex; hind femora rather slender, usually distinctly surpassing
											abdomen, male, reaching its tip or slightly beyond, female, their color nearly
											uniform, rarely with faint fuscous bars on upper face; extremity of male
											abdomen but slightly enlarged, usually nearly horizontal, subgenital plate
											broad at base, rapidly tapering to a narrow apex, usually without apical or
											sub-apical tubercle.


										

										Four species and two varieties of the group occur in our territory, two of
											them with extended range, the others confined to the southern coastwise
											states.

										
											Fig. 136. a, Outline of tegmen of female of M. scudderi; b, outline of male cercus of same; c,
												same of M. carnegiei; e, same of M.
													quercicola; d, side view of apex of male abdomen of M.
													dawsoni . (After Morse and R. & H.)
										

										
											KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF SCUDDERI GROUP.

											a. General color grayish- or dark reddish-brown; size smaller, the
												males not over 18.5 mm.
											b. Furcula nearly half the length of the supra-anal plate (Fig.
												137); prozona as broad as or broader than long; tegmina ovate-lanceolate,
												subcuminate, slightly longer than pronotum (rarely fully developed.) 182. DAWSONI.
											bb. Furcula very short or wanting, when present scarcely half the
												length of the last dorsal segment (Pl. III, b); prozona
												longer than broad.
											c. Tegmina as long as or slightly longer than pronotum, their tips
												subacuminate; cerci subfalcate, their rounded tips about half as broad as
												base (Fig. 136, a, b.) 183. SCUDDERI.
											cc. Tegmina shorter than pronotum, their tips narrowly rounded;
												cerci shorter, triangular, their tips less than one-fourth as broad as base
												(Fig. 136, c.)
											d. Cerci rather broadly triangular, tapering evenly from base to
												apex; furcula short finger-like or triangular projections lying on the bases
												of the median ridges. 184. CARNEGIEI.
											dd. Cerci elongate-triangular, tapering from base to middle, the
												apical half very narrow, of nearly equal width throughout; furcula
												represented only by swollen convexities of the margins of median notch of
												last dorsal segment. 184a. ACIDOCERCUS.
											aa. General color pale reddish-yellow or ochraceous-tawny; larger,
												males 19 or more mm. in length.
											e. Tegmina broadly oval with tips feebly truncate the females with
												dorsal and lateral fields slightly but obvously defined; cercus a triangular
												plate, slightly less than twice as long as its basal width, its apical
												fourth not incurved. 185. DAVISI.56
											ee. Tegmina oval, their tips rounded and dorsal and lateral fields
												not defined; cercus more slender, slightly over twice as long as its basal
												width, its apical fourth much narrower and curved inward (Fig. 136,e.)185a. QUERCICOLA.56
										

										56These two forms were
											placed by Hebard in the genus Eotettix, he stating (1918,
											153) that "in general appearance these insects suggest rather strongly a very
											large and exceedingly smooth development of the Scudderi group of the genus
												Melanoplus. The general structure, however, satisfies us
											that they must be assigned to Eotettix." Now the principal
											structural characters of the genus Eotettix as given by
											Scudder, its founder (1897a, 11), are the presence of a distinct subapical
											tubercle on subgenital plate of male, a sharply acuminate prosternal spine,
											distinctly developed furcula and styliform cerci, all of which characters fail
											in davisi and quercicola. I have,
											therefore, placed them in this series of Melanoplus.



										


										
											182. MELANOPLUS DAWSONI
												(Scudder), 1875f, 343. Dawson's Locust.

											Size small or medium, the sexes subequal. Above grayish- or olive-brown,
												tinged with fuscous, beneath dull yellow; the piceous postocular stripe
												extending only to metazona, subobsolete in female; face and lower half of
												pronotal lobes olive-gray; metapleura in great part white. Hind femora
												reddish-yellow, their upper and inner faces usually with faint fuscous
												cross-bars. Interocular space about twice the breadth of first antennal
												joint. Frontal costa convex above the ocellus, female, nearly flat
												throughout, male distinctly punctate. Pronotum short, the disk convex;
												prozona slightly longer than wide, male, subquadrate, female, less than
												one-third longer than metazona, the latter with hind margin obtuse-angled.
												Tegmina as described in key. Supra-anal plate elongate-triangular, its apex
												acute, lateral margins broader and more elevated on basal half; median
												sulcus rather shallow, percurrent. Furcula consisting of a pair of
												subparallel, slender, flattened tapering processes lying outside the median
												ridges (Fig. 137.) Cerci shorter than supra-anal plate, subfalcate, the
												apical third less than half the width of base, feebly concave without, the
												tips rounded. Subgenital plate small, longer than broad, subpyramidal,
												apically compressed, the apical margin but feebly elevated. Length of body,
												♂, 14--17, ♀, 19--22; of antennæ, ♂, 7.5, ♀, 6.3; of pronotum, ♂, 3.5--4, ♀,
												5.5--6; of tegmina, ♂, 5.3--7, ♀, 5--6; of hind femora, ♂, 8.7--9, ♀
												10--10.5 mm. (Fig. 138.)
										
										
											Fig. 137. Dorsal view of apex of male abdomen of M.
													dawsoni. (After Lugger.)
										

										Toronto, Ontario (Walker) ; Crawford Co., Iowa; Lincoln and
											Valentine, Neb. (Bruner). Scudder (1900a, 102)
											has recorded this species from Brunswick, Me.; Morse (1919)
											from Manchester, N. H., and Shull (1911, 226) from Saginaw
											Bay, Mich. It is also known from northern Pennsylvania. E. M. Walker
												(1899, 31) states that it is not uncommon near Toronto, "frequenting
											dry sandy soil, generally somewhat bushy or scrubby, but also occurring in
											open sandy fields. At McDonald's Falls on the Severn River, Ont., it was found
											in a sandy and somewhat hilly district, thinly wooded with oak and white pine
											and with a scattered undergrowth of blueberry, Jersey Tea and Sweet Fern
											shrubs. The above are the only records from our territory, the general range
											of the species extending over central southern Canada, and from Iowa to
											Minnesota and Wyoming, southwest to northern New Mexico. A long-winged form
											(var. completus Scudder) with tegmina 15--17 mm. in length,
											fully developed and greatly surpassing the hind femora, is known, but appears
											to be scarce.
										
											Fig. 138. Male. (After Lugger.)
										


										

										Bruner records dawsoni as not rare in Nebraska on low
											grounds, while Somes (1914, 77) states that in Minnesota, between
											June 21 and Sept. 10, "it is a much more common and widely distributed species
											than M. scudderi and appears to adapt itself to more varied
											conditions of habitat than any other of our brachypterous forms, being most
											abundant amid such brushy growths as Symphoricarpos, Corylus
											and Taxus." It is said by Gillette to be common, up to 8,000
											feet, on the foothills in Colorado, where mountainous plants and scrub oaks
											form practically the only vegetation. Pezotettix tellustris
											Scudder (1876, 502) and P. abditum
											Dodge (1877, 113) are synonyms. M. dawsoni is a
											somewhat aberrant form of the present group, but is apparently more closely
											related to its members than to those of the next group with some of which it
											was classed by Scudder.


										
											183. MELANOPLUS SCUDDERI
												(Uhler), 1864, 555. Scudder's Short-winged Locust.

											Size small for the genus, medium for the group, the females distinctly
												the larger. Above dull reddish- or wood-brown, nearly uniform in the female;
												face greenish-yellow, much mottled with fuscous; the male, and sometimes the
												female, with an indistinct postocular fuscous stripe reaching the metazona.
												Upper surface of abdomen often clouded with fuscous. Hind femora usually
												with two faint dark bars on upper and inner faces, knees blackish. Under
												surface dull clay- to bright yellow. Interoculal space about as broad as
												frontal costa, female, two-thirds as broad, male; fastigium strongly
												declivent, its median concavity shallow. Frontal costa feebly sulcate at and
												below the ocellus, female, nearly throughout, male. Pronotum with disk
												broadly convex, prozona from a fourth to a half longer than the densely
												punctate metazona; front margin truncate or nearly so, often faintly notched
												in middle, hind margin obtuse-angled. Tegmina, elongate-ovate, male, more
												broadly ovate, female, their inner edges slightly separated or attingent,
												male, usually slightly over-lapping, female. Supra-anal plate triangular,
												its apex acute-angulate, the median ridges narrow, sharp, enclosing a
												narrow, deep, almost percurrent median sulcus which slightly widens apically
												(Pl. III, b.) Furcula minute triangular processes lying
												obliquely on the bases of the median ridges. Cerci as described in key,
												about twice as long as their basal breadth, slightly incurved, their apical
												halves broadly concave (Fig. 136, b.) Subgenital plate
												small, conical, the upper margin subacute. Length of body, ♂, 16.2--18.5, ♀,
												22--24; of antennæ, ♂ and ♀, 7.5--8; of pronotum, ♂, 5.2--5.6, ♀, 6.2--6.7;
												of tegmina, ♂, 5.2--5.5, ♀, 7--8; of hind femora, ♂, 10.5--12, ♀, 12.5--14
												mm.
										

										In Indiana this dull colored locust is the most abundant of the short-winged
											species of Melanoplus, occurring throughout the State, but
											more common in the southern portion. In the central counties it begins to
											reach maturity about August 5th, and has been taken as late as November 22d.
											It is one of the most  comon of the late autumn
											locusts, frequenting the borders of open woods, fence rows and roadsides,
											especially in dry situations where blue-grass abounds. On warm sunny
											afternoons in November, it may often be seen resting quietly on the sides of
											logs, or the lower part of rail or board fences, and apparently enjoying the
											sunshine. In the center of the city of Indianapolis I have often noted it
											along the edges of walks, though it is less common on the lawns than its
											long-winged congeners, femur-rubrum and differentialis. It is able to withstand quite severe frosts and has
											been seen mating as late as November 15. From Florida M.
												scudderi is known only by a single male taken by Davis at Monticello,
											in the extreme northern part of the State.
										The known range of scudderi is a wide one, extending from
											New England west to Minnesota and central Nebraska and south and southwest to
											northern Florida, Oklahoma and Ft. Worth, Texas. In New England Morse and
											Scudder have recorded it from Maine, Massachusetts and Connecticut, Morse
											stating (1898, 280) that it is a local but common species, preferring dry
											hillsides among bushes, roadsides and open woods. It is not recorded from
											Canada, and in Michigan is known only from Washtenaw Co.
										Lugger (1898, 185) mentions it as uncommon in Minnesota, and
											Somes records it from only half a dozen localities, stating that there it
											reaches maturity about August 20, and is most common in open woodlands.
												Morse (1907, 52) records it from numerous localities in
											Arkansas, Oklahoma and northern Texas, and calls it a "locally common, even
											abundant, and very widely distributed species." Wherever M.
												scudderi occurs it appears to be, as in Indiana, one of the more common
											of the late autumn locusts, its gray and brown hues serving it well for
											protection among the fallen leaves, grass stems and other debris of that
											season.

										
											184. MELANOPLUS CARNEGIEI
												Morse, 1904a, 10. Carnegie's Locust.

											A medium sized species closely resembling scudderi in
												size and form. General color reddish- instead of grayish-brown, the
												postocular black stripe of male more distinct. Frontal costa more deeply
												sulcate. Disk of pronotum scarcely as wide, its sides subparallel in both
												sexes, median carina more distinct. Tegmina shorter, usually slightly
												overlapping. Supra-anal plate shorter, its margins less elevated, median
												sulcus broader, terminating at middle of plate. Furcula minute,
												subcylindrical, parallel, lying straight on the bases of the median ridges.
												Cerci scarcely longer than their basal breadth, three-fifths as long as the
												supra-anal plate, thick at base, tapering evenly to the straight apex (Fig.
												136, c.) Subgenital plate scoop-shaped, subconical, the
												apex narrow, rounded or subtruncate. Length of body, ♂, 14--17.5, ♀, 23--24;
												of antennæ, ♂, 7--8.5, ♀, 8.5--10; of pronotum, ♂, 4.5, ♀, 6.3--6.7; of
												tegmina, ♂, 4--4.5, ♀, 5--6; of hind femora, ♂, 10--12, ♀, 13.5--14.5
												mm.
										



										

										Specimens at hand are from Denmark and Yemassee, S. Car., August 10--Sept. 4.
											Its known range is given by R. & H. (1916, 229) as extending
											"from Sulphur Springs, N. Car., Pinnacle Peak and Blue Ridge, Ga., south and
											east as far as Warm Springs and Macon, Ga., and Yemassee, S. Car." It is
											sylvan in habitat, occurring on the ground among the undergrowth of pine and
											oak woods.

										
											184a. MELANOPLUS CARNEGIEI ACIDOCERCUS
												Hebard, 1919a, 290.

											Very close to carnegiei, the males agreeing absolutely
												in color, size and measurements, differing only in the form of cerci and
												less developed furcula as described in key, and in having the median sulcus
												of supra-anal plate percurrent and subgenital plate a little wider, less
												conical, its extreme apex feebly thickened to form a small tubercle. Females
												slightly paler with sides of pronotum a little less divergent; tegmina
												slightly longer, their edges feebly overlapping.
										

										This locust was taken by R. & H. in some numbers Sept. 5, 6, at
											Bainbridge, Ga. An examination of the type series at Philadelphia showed that
											the male cerci and furcula were both variable in form and development, the
											slender apical portion of cerci in some individuals being much shorter than in
											others, while the furcula occasionally had very short projections from the
											swollen bases, thus approaching those of carnegiei. I
											therefore regard acidocercus as only an offshoot or
											incipient species as yet worthy only of a trinomial name.
										"The species was found common in oak shoots in areas of sandy soil overgrown
											with oaks, and occasional among the scant grasses and plants growing on sandy
											soil, in the higher areas of the long-leaf pine woods." (Hebard.)

										
											185. MELANOPLUS DAVISI
												(Hebard), 1918, 153. Davis's Oak Locust.

											Size large for the group, the female especially so. General color pale
												brown to dull clay-yellow, the usual broad postocular black stripe, narrower
												in female, extending back to metazona; lower part of lateral lobes
												clay-yellow; face russet to yellowish. Tegmina pale brown, male; dull
												clay-yellow above, slightly darker on sides, female. Under surface dull
												yellow. Outer face of hind femora reddish-yellow with a paler ring near
												knee, upper face buffy with two broad brown cross-bars, these often absent
												in female; hind tibiæ coral-red, the spines black. Interocular space about
												as wide as basal joint of antennæ, male, four-fifths the width of frontal
												costa, female. Fastigium moderately produced and shallowly concave. Frontal
												costa broad, sulcate only in the region of the ocellus. Pronotum with median
												carina moderately high; hind margin broadly obtuse-angulate or sub-rounded.
												Tegmina broadly oval, usually slightly overlapping, as long as prozona and
												half the metazona. Prosternal spine short, subconical, its apex blunt,
												rounded. Furcula consisting of two nearly attingent slight convexities from
												each of which projects beyond the segment a minute rounded appendage.
												Supra-anal plate moderately broad, shield-shape, its  basal third strongly sulcate with the margins of the sulcations
												carinate. Cerci as described in key, the margins feebly convergent to the
												narrowly rounded apex: Subgenital plate small, convex, tapering to the very
												narrow and produced rounded apex which is without a trace of the subapical
												tubercle found in the species of Eotettix. Valves of
												ovipositor moderately elongate, not strongly curved distad to their acute
												apices. Length of body, ♂, 18.5--22, ♀, 25--27.2; of pronotum, ♂, 4.8--5.2,
												♀, 6.3--7; of tegmina, ♂, 4.1--5.1, ♀, 4.2--5.7; of hind femora, ♂,
												11.7--12.9, ♀, 14.8--15.8 mm.
										

										This locust was taken by R. & H. at DeFuniak Springs and Pensacola, Fla.,
											Aug. 28--30. At the former place "it was found in sandy long-leaf pine woods,
											with undergrowth of wire-grass and many oak shoots and dwarf oak. Wherever
											this type of country occurred the insect was found in large numbers, the oak
											undergrowth evidently being the food plant. The species is truly thamnophilus,
											not rapid in its movements, but jumping with great power. When approached,
											individuals often hid on the under side of the oak leaves and when seized by a
											sudden grasp were found to cling tenaciously to their support." (Hebard.) At Pensacola it was very rare among gallberry bushes, Ilex glabra L., in low, sandy pine woods.

										
											185a. MELANOPLUS DAVISI QUERCICOLA
												(Hebard), 1918, 156. Oak-loving Locust.

											"Agrees in all respects with davisi except in the
												following features: Size somewhat smaller, form less attenuate. Tegmina
												slightly overlapping, oval, the curvature of the margin greatest distad,
												surface showing no definition between dorsal and lateral fields. Prosternal
												spine stouter, that of female somewhat flattened in front and behind.
												Supra-anal plate as in davisi except that a transverse
												carina runs for a short distance laterad from the extremities of the carinæ
												bounding the proximal median sulcus. Cercus slightly over twice as long as
												proximal width, dorsal margin very feebly concave to apex, ventral margin
												feebly convex and converging toward dorsal margin in proximal three-fourths;
												the remaining narrow distal fourth of the cercus curved inward with margins
												parallel to the rounded apex, this portion about one-third as wide as the
												basal width (Fig. 136, e.) Subgenital plate with apex
												decidedly broader, feebly bilobate. Length of body, ♂, 16.3--21, ♀,
												23.2--30.5; of pronotum, ♂, 4.1--5.2, ♀, 5.8--7.2; of tegmina, ♂, 3.9--4.8,
												♀, 5.1--6.8; of hind femora, ♂, 10.5--12.3, ♀, 13.5--16.5 mm." (Hebard.)
										

										The above includes all the essential parts of the original description. The
											locust was taken by R. & H. at Woodville, Carrabelle and Ocala, Fla.,
											Sept. 1--19. Of its habits Hebard (1918, 158) says: "The species
											was found common in sandy long-leaf pine, Pinus palustris
											Mill, flatwoods among dwarf oak and oak shoots at Woodville; very few in scrub
											oak and oak shoots on flat  sandy soil at
											Carrabelle, and few in oak clumps at from two to five feet from the ground at
											Ocala, in an environment very similar to that at Woodville. The species, like
												davisi, is thamnophilus, not rapid in movement, but
											extremely powerful in leaping and unusually able in hiding in the oak
											undergrowth to which it is peculiar."
										An examination of the type series of both davisi and quercicola showed that the entire general facies of the two is
											the same; the color varying only in the slightly greater width of the dark
											pronotal stripe in the female of davisi. The definition
											between the dorsal and lateral fields of tegmina in that species is very
											slight and evident only in the females. The only difference of any note
											between the two is, therefore, that of the form of the male cerci as described
											in key, and this also is not greater than that shown among races of other
											species of short-winged Melanoplus. I therefore regard quercicola as only an incipient race or variety of davisi, it bearing the same relation to davisi that acidocercus does to carnegiei. In fact all four forms are so closely related that the tyro
											will have much difficulty in separating them. The cerci of davisi are of the same form as those of carnegiei,
											the figure 13 of Hebard (1918, Pl. VIII) showing the apex
											entirely too blunt.
									

									
										Series VII. THE FASCIATUS GROUP.

										Medium or large-sized species of robust form and dull hue, having the antennæ
											about as long as, male, or two-thirds as long, female, as hind femora; prozona
											usually quadrate, flat or feebly tectiform, rarely more than one-fourth longer
											than metazona, its sides parallel, front margin truncate; metazona flat, its
											sides parallel, male, usually, but never strongly, diverging, female, its hind
											margin obtuse-angulate; median carina low but distinct on metazona, absent or
											with a trace near front margin only on prozona; lateral carinæ wanting;
											tegmina sub-lanceolate, distinctly longer than pronotum, covering from
											one-half to three-fourths the abdomen, their tips narrowly rounded or
											subacute, inner margins overlapping, dorsal and median areas sharply defined;
											prosternal spine variable; hind femora bifasciate with fuscous on upper and
											outer faces; hind tibiæ normally wholly or in great part red, often with basal
											third pale, the spines black; abdomen compressed, carinate, more strongly so
											in female, the extremity in male enlarged, upcurved; furcula, when present,
											very short, flattened, oblong or triangular projections lying on the sides of
											the median ridges of supra-anal plate; cerci and subgenital plate variable in
											the different species.



										

										In length and form of tegmina the members of this group are intermediate
											between the previous groups and the long-winged species of Melanoplus. Their feebly developed furcula, however, show that they
											are more closely related to the short-winged species previously treated than
											to the long-winged ones.

										
											Fig. 139. Lateral views of apical portions of male abdomens of Melanoplus. a, fasciatus; b. querneus; c, nigrescens; d, huroni. X
												4. (After Pettit, R. & H. and Scudder.)
										

										
											KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF THE FASCIATUS GROUP.

											a. Lower face of hind femora not deep red; interspace between
												mesosternal lobes of male distinctly longer than broad; subgenital plate of
												male not or very feebly tuberculate at apex (Pl. III, g.)
											b. Smaller, length of body, male, less than 20 mm., of female, not
												more than 23 mm.; tegmina covering two-thirds or more of abdomen; prozona of
												male but little if any longer than metazona. 186. FASCIATUS.
											bb. Larger, length of body, male, 21 or more, of female, 24 or more,
												mm.; tegmina rarely (querneus) covering more than half the
												abdomen; prozona of male usually one-fourth or more longer than
												metazona.
											c. Apical margin of subgenital plate of male rounded, not or but
												feebly elevated at middle; cerci of male, broad, flat, feebly narrowed at
												middle, the apical third as wide or slightly wider than base, the apex
												broadly rounded, not incurved (Fig. 139, b); tegmina
												slightly longer than head and pronotum together; furcula wanting or scarcely
												evident. 187. QUERNEUS.
											cc. Apical margin of subgenital plate distinctly raised or prolonged
												at middle; cerci not as described in c, their apical third
												either incurved truncate, or obliquely transverse; tegmina not longer than
												head and pronotum together.
											d. Furcula of male distinct but small; apical margin of subgenital
												plate feebly but obviously produced backward at middle.
											e. Prozona not more than one-fourth longer than metazona; apex of
												male cerci subtruncate with angles rounded (Fig. 139, c);
												subgenital plate with a slight tubercle at apex. 188. NIGRESCENS.
											ee. ee. Prozona one-third or more longer than metazona; apex of male
												cerci broadly rounded; subgenital plate without a tubercle at apex (Pl. III,
													h.) 189. WALSHII.
											dd. Furcula wanting, the last dorsal segment narrowly parted at
												middle; apex of subgenital plate abruptly rounded and rather strongly
												elevated, but not prolonged backward; apical half of cerci expanded into an
												obliquely transverse oval lobe. 190. PONDEROSUS.



											

											aa. Lower face of hind femora deep red; interspace between
												mesosternal lobes distinctly broader than long in both sexes; apex of
												subgenital plate prolonged upward into a distinct tubercle (Fig. 139, d.) 191. HURONI.
										

										
											186. MELANOPLUS FASCIATUS
												(F. Walker), 1870, 680. Huckleberry Locust.

											Size small for the group, medium for the genus, the sexes nearly equal;
												form robust. Dull grayish- or reddish-brown above, clay-yellow below, the
												male the darker. Antennæ reddish-brown, paler at base, dusky toward tips;
												occiput and disk of prozona fuscous; the usual black band behind the eye,
												extending back to metazona and bordered below by greenish-yellow. Tegmina
												dull reddish-brown, with often a few small fuscous spots on discoidal area.
												Hind femora dull brownish-yellow with two broad oblique blackish bars on
												upper, outer and inner faces; lower face pale or dull red; knees black; hind
												tibiæ red, rarely pale green, with a lighter ring near base, spines black.
												Occiput distinctly elevated above the pronotum; interocular space as broad,
												male, or nearly twice as broad, female, as basal joint of antennæ, fastigium
												strongly declivent, shallowly sulcate, its lateral margins distinct, male,
												very low, female. Frontal costa as broad as interocular space, feebly
												sulcate below the ocellus, male, slightly concave around it, female.
												Pronotum feebly expanding on metazona, disk rounded on prozona, flat on
												metazona; hind margin broadly rounded or obtuse-angled; median carina
												distinct only on metazona, faintly visible on portions of prozona. Tegmina
												usually covering two-thirds, female, or three-fourths or more, male, of
												abdomen, sublanceolate, their inner edges overlapping. Cerci of male
												straight, about four times as long as broad, middle third but slightly
												narrowed, apical third concave or sulcate, with tip rounded and incurved
												(Fig. 139, a.) Supra-anal plate broad, triangular, apex
												subacute, margins elevated, median ridges extending from base three-fourths
												to apex, at apical third uniting with a cross carina which, with the ridges,
												form on the basal two-thirds of the plate a narrow median sulcus and two
												broad lateral concavities; furcula consisting of a pair of minute, widely
												separated subcylindrical projections lying outside the median ridges (Pl.
												III, g.) Subgenital plate longer than broad, the apical
												margin well rounded, feebly elevated at middle. Length of body, ♂, 17--19.5,
												♀, 20--23; of antennæ, ♂, 7.5--9.5, ♀, 6.5--8; of pronotum, ♂, 4.5--5, ♀,
												5--6; of tegmina, ♂, 7.5--10, ♂, 8--11; of hind femora, ♂, 9.5--10.5, ♀,
												11--12.5 mm.
										

										Winchendon and Sherborn, Mass. (Morse) ; Lake and Marshall
											Cos., Ind. (W. S. B.); Big Horn Mts., Wyo. This small locust
											has been taken in Indiana only in Marshall, Tippecanoe and Lake counties. In
											Marshall Co. it has been noted only in a low sandy oak woods, bordering Lost
											Lake, and just west of the station of Arlington at Lake Maxinkuckee. Here
											among low huckleberry and other bushes it is common from July 15th on, the
											females, however, far outnumbering the males. Both sexes leap vigorously when
											disturbed, but often squat close to the ground after being flushed once or
											twice. In Lake County a few specimens have been taken  in the sand dune region near Millers, while a single male was
											taken June 28 by Fox near Lafayette.
										The range of M. fasciatus is northern, extending from
											Labrador, Newfoundland, Nova Scotia and New England, north and west nearly or
											quite across the continent and south and west to New Jersey, northern Indiana,
											Missouri and Colorado, its southern limits being approximately that of
											latitude 40°, though a single male is recorded by Morse (1907,
												47) from Cheahaw Mt., Ala. In New England Morse (1898,
												281) says: "It is a somewhat local but common and widely distributed
											species, found most frequently among huckleberry bushes growing in and along
											the edges of open pitch-pine woods, where it is frequently associated with Chœaltis conspersa Harr. When startled it leaps well, but may
											usually be taken without a net. The species is very variable in color, the
											upper parts, while usually of a dark reddish-brown, are sometimes dark
											olivaceous-gray and occasionally are strikingly varied with white. Adults
											appear in late June and may be found as late as October."
										In Ontario Walker (1899, 32) found it "tolerably common in dry
											open woods, preferably on sandy or rocky soil, often in company with C. conspersa and sometimes with M.
												islandicus." In Nebraska Bruner reports it as "found only in the
											extreme northwestern part of the State, where it is rare."' In Colorado
												Gillette (1904) says it "appears to be confined to the
											mountains at altitudes varying from 8,000 to 11,000 feet, where it occurs
											sparingly." It is not recorded from Ohio, but in Michigan appears to be common
											in suitable localities as shown by Hebard and Vestal. A long-winged form (M. f. volaticus Scudd.) with tegmina 19 to 20 mm. in length,
											occurs rarely in Michigan, and has also been recorded by Walker from DeGrassi
											Point, Ontario, and the Magdalen Islands.
										M. fasciatus has been described and recorded under several
											different names, Melanoplus rectus Scudd., M.
												curtus, Scudd., and M. baconi McNeill being synonyms,
											while the Pezotettix borealis of Thomas (1873,
												153), Fernald (1888) and numerous other authors, nec borealis (Fieb.), are to be referred to M.
												fasciatus, a full synonymy being given by Scudder (1897,
												267).

										
											187. MELANOPLUS QUERNEUS
												Rehn & Hebard, 1916, 231.

											Size above the medium for the genus, large for the group; form
												moderately robust. Male--Grayish-brown above, greenish-yellow beneath. Face
												olive-gray flecked with fuscous; antennæ pale brown, darker toward tips.
												Sides of head and upper third of prozonal lateral lobes with a shining dark
												brown stripe; dorsal field of tegmina pale brown; meta-pleura  dull yellow. Outer face of hind femora largely
												blackish-brown, shining, with two large spots on basal third and another
												behind middle, yellow. Apical half or more of hind tibiæ red (rarely dull
												yellow), basal portion fuscous with a paler annulus behind knee. Female
												duller, the stripe behind eye faint, dark bars on hind femora seal brown.
												Occiput convex, higher than pronotum; interocular space about two-thirds as
												wide, male, or three-fourths as wide, female, as frontal costa between the
												antennæ; fastigium as in fasciatus. Frontal costa low,
												rather wide, feebly sulcate below the ocellus, evanescent before reaching
												clypeus. Pronotum with median carina absent on prozona, transverse sulci
												very faint; prozona but about one-fifth longer than metazona. Tegmina
												covering two-thirds or more of abdomen. Hind femora slender, strongly
												surpassing tip of abdomen, male, reaching the tip, female. Supra-anal plate
												of male broadly triangular, basal median ridges low, more widely separated
												than usual, uniting with cross carina at middle of plate; furcula scarcely
												evident, being only slightly projecting convex points lying each side of the
												wide emargination of the last dorsal segment. Cerci and subgenital plate as
												described in key (Fig. 139,b.) Length of body, ♂,
												22.5--27, ♀, 32.2--32.8; of antennæ, ♂, 15.5, ♀, 12.5; of pronotum, ♂,
												6.2--6.5, ♀, 6.7--7.9; of tegmina, ♂, 10--11.7, ♀, 11.6--12.5; of hind
												femora, ♂, 15.8--16.7, ♀, 17.3--18.3 mm.
										

										This locust is recorded only from Thomasville, Ga., where Hebard took about
											30 specimens, November 30--December 13. They were first mentioned by R.
												& H. (1904, 791) as M. nigrescens Scudd., and
											were found in colonies in the vicinity of clumps of scrub oaks in pine woods.
											Hebard states that "the males seemed peculiarly unwary and occasionally one
											would be almost trodden upon before it would jump. The females were more
											unwieldy than the males, but were very powerful. Both sexes, owing to the
											shortness of their wings, were wholly unable to fly." The female resembles
											closely those of. M. walshii but is larger, with longer
											tegmina, the tips of which are narrowly rounded, not subacute as in that sex
											of walshii.

										
											188. MELANOPLUS NIGRESCENS
												(Scudder), 1877b, 27. Black-sided Locust.

											Size medium, form robust. Dull wood-brown, upper halves of lateral lobes
												and costal and discoidal areas of tegmina blackish. Antennæ reddish-brown,
												slightly infuscated at tip. Face flecked with fuscous. Metapleura yellowish,
												edged on either side with black. Hind femora brownish-yellow with a broad
												black band each side of middle, whose edges follow the impressed lines, the
												basal one sending a shoot to base; hind tibiæ vinous-red slightly infuscated
												at base. Frontal costa broad, shallowly sulcate throughout except just above
												the antennæ. Pronotum with median carina distinct only on metazona, disk
												separated from the lateral lobes by a distinct but bluntly rounded angle;
												front margin subtruncate, faintly emarginate in female, hind one very
												obtusely angulate. Prosternal spine rather long, cylindrical, apically
												tapering but blunt; interspace between mesosternal lobes half as long again
												as broad, male, quadrate, female. Tegmina longer than pronotum, covering
												only half the abdomen, tapering, apically 
												subacute. Extremity of male abdomen clavate, slightly upturned; supra-anal
												plate triangular with sides convex, apex acute and basal, not very deep,
												median sulcus; furcula consisting of a pair of slight approximate spines
												overlying the bases of the median ridges. Cerci compressed, tapering and
												straight on middle half, with an obscure inner superior basal tubercle,
												beyond the middle bent inward a little upward, equal, the tip squarely
												truncate with rounded angles (Fig. 139, c.) Subgenital
												plate small, longer than broad, slightly elevated and feebly prolonged at
												apex. Length of body, ♂, 23, ♀, 26.5; of antennæ, ♂, 13, ♀, 11; of tegmina,
												♂ and ♀, 9.5; of hind femora, ♂, 13.5, ♀, 16.5 mm.
										

										Scudder's four specimens were from Georgia and Smithville, N. Car. R.
												& H. (1916, 234) record the taking of 16 additional ones at Lake
											Waccamaw, N. Car., and St. Simon's Island, Ga., so that it is known only from
											20 specimens taken from the four stations in those two states. R. & H.
											state that "nigrescens is closely related to walshii, the male differing chiefly in details of dorsum of pronotum,
											in the peculiar offset or twist of the distal section of cercus, and in the
											more pronounced apex of the subgenital plate. The females are almost
											indistinguishable, the more delicate median carina, straighter ovipositor jaws
											and less distinctly tapering prosternal spine of nigrescens,
											being the only tangible distinguishing characters." Their specimens were
											secured in heavy undergrowth of bushes in short-leaf pine woods, and among
											dead leaves under live oaks. All known specimens have been taken between
											August 30 and November 22.

										
											189. MELANOPLUS WALSHII
												Scudder, 1897b, 11. Walsh's Locust.

											Size medium for the genus, rather large for the group; form robust. Dark
												grayish-brown above, yellowish below. Face dull brown, occiput darker; the
												usual black postocular stripe rather narrow, often indistinct or wanting,
												especially in female; disk and lower half of lateral lobes of pronotum and
												tegmina grayish-brown, often more or less flecked with fuscous; dorsal field
												of tegmina pale brown. Hind femora reddish- or yellowish-brown, with two
												cross-bars of black on upper and outer faces, these sometimes indistinct in
												female; lower face pale or vermilion red, knees black. Hind tibiæ red, with
												a pale ring on basal third, the spines black. Interocular area nearly, male,
												or fully, female, twice as broad as first joint of antennæ, fastigium
												moderately sloping, broadly sulcate, male, feebly concave, female. Frontal
												costa short, not reaching clypeus, sulcate at and slightly below the
												ocellus. Pronotum feebly expanding on metazona, disk flat or nearly so, hind
												margin broadly obtuse angled. Tegmina about one-fourth longer than pronotum,
												sublanceolate, their inner edges slightly overlapping and tips subacute.
												Fore and middle femora much swollen 'in male, hind femora slightly
												surpassing abdomen, male, reaching base or middle of ovipositor, female.
												Extremity of male abdomen strongly recurved. Cerci coarse, heavy, the middle
												third two-thirds as broad as base, apical third slightly enlarged, curved
												abruptly inward (Pl. III, h), 
												
													Fig. 140. Male. X 2. (After Lugger.)
												 compressed and concave, the tip broadly rounded. Furcula
												consisting of a pair of short, rather broad and flat triangular teeth lying
												on the sides of the basal median ridges. Subgenital plate broader than long,
												the apex at middle feebly elevated. Length of body, ♂, 19--25, ♀, 23--29; of
												antennæ, ♂, 11--14, ♀, 9.5--10.5; of pronotum, ♂, 5--5.7, ♀, 6--6.5; of
												tegmina, ♂, 6.2--9, ♀, 8--9; of hind femora, ♂, 11.5-14, ♀, 14--16 mm. (Fig.
												140.)
										

										Hudson, Mich.; Cloverdale, Ohio; various points in Indiana, June--November
												(W. S. B.). This clumsy bodied insect, the M.
												blatchleyi of my former work, is among the least common of our Indiana
											Melanopli, having been taken only in Crawford, Knox, Monroe, Vigo, Putnam and
											Marion counties. Seldom more than a dozen or two are seen each season. It
											frequents, for the most part, upland woods and thickets, though it is
											sometimes found along the borders of marshes and swamps, but never close to
											the water. It is more arboreal than many of our locusts, having been taken in
											autumn on prickly ash and buttonbush shrubs, several feet above the ground,
											also from the boles of hackberry and oak trees, where it was probably sunning.
											In central Indiana it begins to reach maturity by June 14th, and ragged,
											forlorn looking specimens have been seen as late as November 3rd.
										M. walshii has had a varied and somewhat strange career in
											Orthopterological nomenclature. It was first described by Bruner (1876,
												124) under the name of Pezotettix occidentalis.
											This specific name, having been preoccupied by Thomas (1872,
											453), was changed by Scudder (1897, 322) to blatchleyi. He, however, had described the insect as M.
												walshii on page 235, and as M. amplectens on page 260
											of the same work. M. walshii, therefore, stands, occidentalis Bruner, nec Thos., and amplectens and blatchleyi Scudder being
											synonyms.
										The known range of walshii, based largely on the records of
											the above synonyms, is a wide one, extending from Ohio and Michiigan,
											southeast to Virginia, North Carolina and Georgia, and west and north to
											Nebraska and Minnesota. Morse (1904, 50) notes it as an
											inhabitant of the "Transition zone of the Central and Appalachian regions,
											being a characteristic and dominant species among the mountains of western
											North Carolina. There  it inhabits thickets of
											shrubbery, and herbage in and near deciduous woodlands at high elevations
											(3,000 to 6,000 feet) and sometimes extends its habitat into adjoining fields.
											Adults begin to appear about the middle of July, but the great majority do not
											reach maturity until August, and young are still plentiful in September at
											high elevations."
										Lugger (1898, 188) states that in Minnesota "it is very common,
											preferring the edges of forests or places overgrown with bushes and vines. The
											grapevine, especially, is preferred by these locusts, and they soon destroy
											its foliage by eating big holes in the leaves."
										Somes (1914, 78) records the finding of a female drilling in a
											piece of dead wood in very much the same way as does Chlœaltis
												conspersa. Two fresh holes, one 8 mm., the other 15 mm. deep, were
											found in the stick within a space of 3 inches. R. & H. (1916,
												235) state that the size and color of the locust, and numerous
											structural features of the cerci, furcula, etc., are variable in the large
											series in their possession, and conclude that: "It is quite possible that the
											acquisition of more material from the Mississippi and Missouri valleys will
											show the desirability of recognizing two races of this species, one a western
											one to which the name blatchleyi should be limited, and the
											other (from the southeastern states) to which typical walshii with amplectens as a synonym would be
											applied."

										
											190. MELANOPLUS PONDEROSUS57
												(Scudder), 1875b, 473.

											Size above the average for the genus, large for the group; form very
												robust. Dull olive to ash-brown; under surface greenish-yellow. Face, lower
												halves of lateral lobes, metapleura and pale portion of hind femora,
												clay-yellow. The usual dark postocular stripe faint, reaching to metazona,
												male, often obsolete, female. Disk of metazona, and dorsal area of tegmina
												pale brown, the discoidal area often flecked with fuscous. Hind femora with
												two broad black or brown bands on outer face, three on upper inner face;
												knees fuscous; tibial groove of under side often pinkish-red. Hind tibiæ
												usually red, often yellow tinged with red, the basal third fuscous with a
												black basal annulus, followed by a pale one, spines wholly black.
												Interocular space broad but narrower than frontal costa. Fastigium strongly
												declivent, shallowly and broadly sulcate, male, almost flat, female. Frontal
												costa low, very wide, shallowly sulcate at and below the ocellus. Prozona
												one-fourth, male, or less, female, longer than metazona; median carina very
												faint on prozona; hind margin broadly obtuse-angulate, more so in male.
												Tegmina in short-winged form about equal to head and pronotum together,
												covering from one-third to slightly more than half the 57Scudder (loc.
														cit.) described ponderosus and robustus from the same place and on the same page, the former
													first. He later (1897, 354) placed ponderosus as a
													synonym of robustus, but precedence on the page of
													original description requires that ponderosus be
													retained and robustus made the synonym.
												 abdomen, their tips narrowly rounded; in
												typical form reaching, female, or slightly surpassing, male, the tips of
												hind femora, the latter surpassing the abdomen 5 mm., male, reaching its tip
												or slightly beyond, female. Supra-anal plate broadly triangular, nearly
												flat, its tip obtuse; median sulcus percurrent or nearly so, expanded at
												apical fifth. Cerci short, very broad, the apical half bent upward and
												widened ventrally to form an obliquely transverse oval lobe, much wider than
												the base; its apex broadly and obliquely rounded, the dorsal angle more
												produced and more narrowly rounded than the ventral one. Subgenital plate as
												described in key. Length of body, ♂, 25--29, ♀, 27--34; of antennæ, ♂,
												13.5--15, ♀, 12--14; of pronotum, ♂, 6.5--7, ♀, 7--8.2; of tegmina, ♂,
												11.5--13, ♀, 9--12; of hind femora, ♂, 16--18, ♀, 17--21 mm. Length of
												tegmina, long-winged form, ♂, 21, ♀, 24 mm.
										

										This large bulky species varies greatly in wing-length, but only the
											short-winged form, the Pezotettix viola of Thomas
												(1876, 68) is known from east of the Mississippi, having been
											recorded from Illinois, Kentucky and Hattiesburg, Miss. The types of Thomas
											were from central and southern Illinois, while those of the long-winged form,
											typical ponderosus, were from Dallas, Texas. Scudder, in his
											key (1897, 138) separates the two forms only by the comparative length of
											tegmina and color of hind tibiæ. Cotypes (labelled "types") of ponderosus ("robustus") from Dallas, received from him are at hand, as
											well as undoubted specimens of viola from Fayetteville and
											Cane Hill, Ark., and are almost exactly alike except in length of tegmina and
											color of hind tibiæ, the apical two-thirds of the latter in ponderosus being
											"yellow tinged with red," instead of distinctly red as in the Arkansas
											short-winged form. The male cerci and other abdominal organs are the same,
											with the exception of the median sulcus of supra-anal plate which in robustus is interrupted or closed for a short distance at
											apical third. Morse (1907, 51) records robustus
											from numerous points in Arkansas, Oklahoma and Texas, stating that it "is a
											characteristic inhabitant of woodlands, usually xerophytic, where it hops
											about among the underbrush with vigorous leaps." He states that "it is very
											variable in wing-length but not dimorphic, the tegmina of the male ranging
											from 12 to 24 and female from 13 to 24 mm.; and also in the color of the hind
											tibiæ, the distal two-fifths of which range from pale yellow to bright coral
											red." He doubtless had both forms before him but did not recognize the shorter
											winged ones as the viola of Thomas, though he had previously
											(1907, 50) taken M. viola at Hattiesburg, Miss.
										Garman (1894) has recorded the short-winged form from several
											points in central and western Kentucky, stating that it is "moderately common
											on low land along streams and increases in 
											abundance toward the Mississippi River." West of that stream it has been
											recorded only from Arkansas, Missouri and Nebraska. McNeill has recorded viola from Running Lake, Ill., and states (1899a, 345) that it
											is abundant in northern Arkansas and probably throughout the State, occurring
											on wooded hillsides between June 30 and October 26, and that it is sometimes
											known to lay its eggs in small holes in rocks in stone fences. Bruner mentions
											it as "occasionally met with in, the southeastern part of Nebraska," and
												Riley (1878, 220) as reaching maturity about St. Louis, Mo., on
											August 18. These are the only definite records of the form viola which can be found, and Scudder (1897, 357) not
											recognizing that it was only a form of his robustus, says:
											"It appears to have a rather narrow range in the central Mississippi Valley
											between latitude 37°--40°, and longitude 86°--96°." This form bears a close
											general resemblance to M. walshii, but is larger, much more
											robust, with widely different male cerci, wider frontal costa and relatively
											shorter prozona.
										The typical form robustus has been definitely recorded
											outside of Texas only by Morse as above mentioned. In Texas it seems to be
											widely distributed. Bruner (1893, 17) mentions it as
											occasionally doing much damage in central Texas, and states that it "is also
											quite closely related to Pezotettix viola Thomas, which
											occurs in Illinois, Indiana and Missouri." Hart (1906a, 159)
											records robustus as common at Houston and College Station,
											Texas, "in margins of heavy forests and on low flat bottom land associated
											with M. plebejus Stål."

										
											191. MELANOPLUS DODGEI HURONI
												Blatchley, 1898a, 195. Huron Short-winged Locust.

											Size medium for the genus, large for the group; form robust. Dark brown
												marked with fuscous above, clay-yellow beneath. Face reddish-yellow flecked
												with fuscous dots, male, dark gray, female. Sides of head with the usual
												shining dark stripe extending back to metazona, black in male, brown and
												less distinct in female, bordered below by clay-yellow. Tegmina dark brown
												mottled with small, quadrate fuscous spots, (larger and more prominent in
												female); these forming a row along the middle of discoidal area. Hind femora
												dull yellow, with two oblique black bars on outer, upper and inner faces;
												knees fuscous, preceded by a pale ring; lower face and hind tibiæ deep
												pinkish-red. Interocular area one-fourth wider than frontal costa between
												the antennæ, male, nearly two-thirds wider, female. Frontal costa prominent,
												rather narrow, strongly punctate, feebly sulcate only just below the
												ocellus, with median carina sharp and distinct on metazona, evident but very
												low on apical third of prozona, otherwise obsolete; prozona but slightly
												longer than the coarsely and densely punctate metazona; lateral carinæ
												evident but rounded; hind margin broadly obtusely angulate. Tegmina
												one-third to one-half longer than  pronotum,
												covering slightly less than half the abdomen, their tips narrowly rounded.
												Hind femora short, reaching or slightly surpassing tip of abdomen, male,
												distinctly shorter than abdomen, female. Supra-anal plate short, triangular,
												the basal median ridges uniting slightly beyond the middle and continued as
												a single ridge to the rounded apex, the median sulcus, therefore, confined
												to the basal half; furcula consisting of a pair of short, blunt, widely
												separated, finger-like projections lying just outside the median sulcus.
												Cerci with basal third swollen, strongly tapering, apical two-thirds equal,
												very slender, feebly curved forward and inward, the apex blunt (Fig. 139,
													d.) Length of body, ♂, 19--21, ♀, 28--32; of antennæ, ♂,
												8, ♀, 9; of pronotum, ♂, 5, ♀, 6.5--7; of tegmina, ♂, 9--10, ♀, 11--14; of
												hind femora, ♂, 11.5--12.5, ♀, 13--15 mm.
										

										This dull colored robust locust was originally described from a score or more
											of specimens taken by me at LaSalle Island, Mich., Aug. 17, 1897. They were
											found for the most part in a small clearing an acre or more in extent, where a
											cabin had formerly stood. Along its margins and over part of its area grew
											clumps of the wild red raspberry, Rubus strigosus Michx.,
											and among the numerous remains of stumps were small bunches of wire-grass and
											the trailing vines of the dewberry. Here M. huroni had its
											home, and the females, leaping lubberly from one bunch of grass to another,
											were readily secured, but the more sprightly males would often have to be
											chased quite a distance before their capture was effected. Specimens were sent
											Scudder for examination, and he reported them as unknown to him. The species
											was then described as Melanoplus huroni and under that name
											was recorded by Rehn (1904d) and Hebard (1909) from
											Pequaming, Mich., and by Morse (1909) from Isle Royale.
												Caudell (1903, 798) placed it as a synonym of M.
												altitudinum Scudd., a species ranging from South Dakota and Wyoming to
											New Mexico. It was recorded under that name by E. M. Walker (1909,
												207) as occurring at Ft. William and Nipigon, Ontario, both
											brachypterous and macropterous specimens having been found in open scrubby
											woods on the top of Mt. McKay. Hebard (who has been making an exhaustive study
											of the Melanopli) informs me that both huroni and altitudinum are distinct and valid geographic races of Melanoplus (Podisma) dodgei (Thos.), a common and widely
											distributed alpine species of the Rocky Mountain region and as such, on
											Hebard's authority, it is listed above. The records noted above are all that
											can be found of its occurrence in the territory covered by this work.
									
								

								
									Division II. LONG-WINGED
											SPECIES OF MELANOPLUS.

									The long-winged forms of Melanoplus inhabit cultivated
										fields, meadows, prairies, roadsides, railway embankments and open  waste places generally, and are seldom found in any
										numbers in the favorite wooded and sheltered haunts of the short-winged species.
										Being possessed of ample powers of flight they travel long distances from their
										birth-place. At times some of them, as spretis and atlanis, and rarely femur-rubrum and differentialis, become possessed of the migratory instinct and
										congregating in vast numbers, as do blackbirds in autumn, fly for scores or even
										hundreds of miles, stopping wherever food appears plentiful, and then moving
										again onward, leaving behind them a waste more desolate than did the Huns in
										northern France.
									The number of species of long-winged forms of the genus known from the eastern
										States is 18 as against 33 of the short-winged ones, but what the former lack in
										number of species is more than made up in individuals, for they comprise the
										most common and therefore the most injurious of our locusts. Many nominal
										species have in the past been described, based upon the color of the hind tibiæ,
										slight variations in the form of the male cerci and furcula, length of tegmina
										and other minor and variable characters. Five of these have been placed as
										varieties and a number as synonyms in the pages which follow and time will
										doubtless show that several of those retained as valid species should be so
										reduced. For convenience of treatment the eastern species of Division II are
										grouped into ten Series numbered consecutively with those of Division I.

									
										KEY TO EASTERN SERIES OF LONG-WINGED MELANOPLUS.

										a. Apical hind margin of subgenital plate of male more or less
											elevated and usually distinctly and narrowly notched at tip, rarely with only
											a deep posterior subapical impression (Fig. 141, a, c);
											cerci short, flat, nearly equally broad throughout, their length not much more
											than twice as great as the middle breadth (Pl. III, i);
											mesosternum of male with a blunt rounded tubercle in front of lobes. SERIES VIII, p. 412.
										aa. Apical hind margin of subgenital plate never distinctly narrowly
											notched, rarely with a broad and feeble emargination; cerci three or more
											times as long as the middle breadth; mesosternum of male without a
											tubercle.
										b. Cerci of male beyond the middle either subequal or tapering, the
											apical half never distinctly spatulate or forked and but rarely slightly wider
											than the middle.
										c. Furcula two-thirds as long as supra-anal plate, with basal halves
											broad, flat, their inner edges attingent, the apical halves strongly obliquely
											narrowed and divergent; hind tibiæ blue; tegmina immaculate or nearly so. SERIES IX, p. 416.
										cc. Furcula variable in length, but with basal halves never broader
											than the apical ones and at the same time flattened and attingent.


										

										d. Furcula either minute triangular processes or flat, tapering and
											distinctly less than half the length of supra-anal plate; cerci narrowing but
											little in apical half; subgenital plate of male nearly as broad at apex as at
											base, the apex more or less elevated above the lateral margins.
										e. Furcula shorter than last dorsal segment to which they are attached
											(Pl. III, j.)
										f. Supra-anal plate without a transverse carina, its sides straight,
											and median sulcus confined to basal half; apex of subgenital plate slightly
											elevated and terminating in a small subapical tubercle. SERIES X, p. 417.
										ff. Supra-anal plate with a transverse carina at apical third, its
											sides sinuous, and median sulcus percurrent; apex of subgenital plate not
											elevated into a tubercle. FASCIATUS.58
										ee. Furcula nearly half the length of supra-anal plate. DAWSONI.58
										dd. Furcula slender, tapering, subcylindrical, half or more as long as
											supra-anal plate; cerci subfalcate, the apical half usually distinctly
											narrowing, the upper angle of tip prolonged (Pl. IV, k, l);
											subgenital plate of male distinctly narrower at apex than at base, the apical
											margin not elevated nor notched or tuberculate. SERIES XI, p. 418.
										bb. Cerci of male with apical half more or less expanded so as to be
											distinctly broader at some point beyond the middle than at the middle (Pl. IV,
												m. r.)
										g. Cerci of male spatulate or subspatulate, the apex rounded and
											entire, the outer face of apical third concave; furcula always
											distinct.
										h. Supra-anal plate at apical third suddenly and strongly narrowed or
											constricted; furcula not strongly diverging, one-third or more the length of
											supra-anal plate; subgenital plate with apical hind margin subtruncate,
											vaguely and widely emarginate (Pl. IV. m.) SERIES XII, p. 425.
										hh. Supra-anal plate with apical third gradually narrowed and
											depressed; furcula very strongly divergent, not over one-fourth the length of
											supra-anal plate (Fig. 145, b); subgenital plate not
											apically subtruncate nor vaguely emarginate. SERIES XIII, p. 428.
										gg. Cerci of male distinctly forked or their ventral margin with a
											submedian process or angle, or else expanded so as to be very much broader at
											tip than at base (Pl. IV, o, q); furcula usually wanting or
											minute.
										i. Tegmina without distinct rounded fuscous spots scattered
											irregularly over the surface; interval between mesosternal lobes of male
											distinctly longer than broad.
										j. Size medium or small, the males rarely over 25 mm. in length; cerci
											either always forked or their ventral margin with a submedian angulation (Pl.
											IV, n, o); furcula distinct but very short. SERIES XIV, p. 433.
									

									58These two species
										are normally short-winged and have been treated under Division I, pp. 400 and
										393. Their insertion here is only to cover the very rare long-winged
										individuals.


									


									
										Plate IV. Dorsal and side views of extremities of male abdomens of Melanoplus, Phœtaliotes and Paroxya, showing
											the appendages. X 4. k, M. femur-rubrum; l, M.
												borealis; m, M. angustipennis; n, M.
												confusus; o, M. keeleri luridus; p, M.
												differentialis; q, M. bivittatus; r, M.
												punctulatus; s, Phœtaliotes nebrascensis; t, Paroxya clavuliger hoosieri. (After Scudder.)
									



									

									
										jj. Size much larger, the males 27 or more mm. in length; cerci with
											apical half much enlarged, rarely (furcatus) forked.
										k. Disk of pronotum without light colored lateral stripes; furcula
											wholly wanting (Pl. IV, p.) SERIES XV, p. 439.
										kk. Disk of pronotum with pale marginal lateral stripes; furcula
											present but very short (Pl. IV, q.) SERIES XVI, p. 445.
										ii. Tegmina with distinct rounded fuscous spots; interval between
											mesosternal lobes of male subquadrate; lower face of hind femora coral red;
											front margin of pronotum slightly flaring to receive the head. SERIES XVII, p. 450.
									

									
										Series VIII. THE ATLANIS GROUP.

										Species of medium size and grayish- or reddish-brown hue, having the
											postocular dark stripe feebly developed, often subobsolete; antennæ rather
											short, subequal in the sexes; occiput convex, slightly raised above the level
											of pronotum, the latter with disk of prozona transverse or quadrate, its sides
											parallel and rounded into the lateral lobes, those of metazona somewhat
											divergent, with lateral carinæ evident but vague; tegmina distinctly
											surpassing abdomen and tips of hind femora; interspace between the mesosternal
											lobes of male longer than broad, the mesosternum in front of the lobes
											elevated to form a low, blunt conical tubercle; hind tibiæ (in our eastern
											species) normally red, sometimes dull yellow or glaucous; supra-anal plate and
											furcula variable as to species; cerci broad, nearly straight, almost flat
											plates, one and a half, female, to twice, male, as long as broad, the apical
											half but slightly narrower than the basal one, generally through the oblique
											excision of its ventral margin, the apex obliquely and broadly rounded.
										The Utahensis and Spretus Series of
											Scudder have been shown by E. M. Walker (1909, 206) to merge, the
											species bruneri, by reason of its variable subgenital plate,
											forming the connecting link. But two of the ten species of the two series
											recognized by Scudder (1897) occur in our territory, the others inhabiting the
											Rocky Mountain region or the Pacific slope.

										
											KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF ATLANIS GROUP.

											a. Median carina of pronotum percurrent, less distinct on prozona;
												apex of subgenital plate strongly elevated above the lateral margins, its
												tip either with a median notch or a subapical impression; prosternal spine
												appressed-conical, the tip bluntly rounded; lower face of hind femora dull
												yellow. 192. BRUNERI.
											aa. Median carina of pronotum subobsolete on prozona; apex of
												subgenital plate feebly elevated, slightly thickened and with a shallow but
												distinct median notch (Fig. 141, c); prosternal spine
												conical, usually distinctly tapering, the tip subacute; lower face of hind
												femora pinkish-red or rosaceous. 193. ATLANIS.
										


										

										
											192. MELANOPLUS BRUNERI
												Scudder, 1897b, 18. Bruner's Locust.

											Size medium for the genus, the sexes subequal. Reddish-brown above,
												greenish-yellow beneath, occiput and disk of prozona dusky; upper third of
												prozonal lateral lobes with a fuscous or piceous patch. Tegmina pale
												reddish-brown, the median area with a row of vague fuscous spots, more
												distinct in female. Hind femora dull yellow, the upper and inner faces with
												three faint oblique darker bars. Hind tibiæ pale red fading to dull yellow,
												the spines black. Interocular space as wide as first antennal joint, male,
												as frontal costa above the antennæ, female. Fastigium feebly declivent,
												widely not deeply sulcate, male, more shallowly so, female. Frontal costa
												wide, strongly convex above the antennæ, deeply concave just below the
												ocellus. Pronotum short, the disk nearly flat above; prozona but slightly
												longer than metazona, the latter finely and densely punctate, its hind
												margin broadly obtuse-angulate. Extremity of male abdomen strongly upturned.
												Supra-anal plate narrowly oval, the apex obtuse, margins strongly upcurved,
												median sulcus deep, percurrent, widening on apical third. Furcula elongate,
												rather slender, subparallel processes reaching beyond middle of supra-anal
												plate, their sides sinuous, basal thirds attingent, apical ones well
												separated. Cerci.as described under the series heading. Subgenital plate
												with apex wide, much prolonged and elevated the tip broadly rounded or
												subtruncate, with a distinct subapical depression which sometimes extends
												upward to form an apical notch. (M. alaskanus Scudd.)
												Length of body, ♂, 20--25, ♀, 22--23.5; of antennæ, ♂, 7.5, ♀, 7; of
												pronotum, ♂, 5.5, ♀, 5.5--6; of tegmina, ♂, 16--20, ♀, 15--24; of hind
												femora, ♂, 11.5--14, ♀, 13--14 mm.
										
										
											Fig. 141. Extremities of male abdomen of Melanoplus. X 4.
												a, b, bruneri; c, atlanis; d, flavidus. (After McDaniel, Morse and Scudder.)
										

										Isle Royale, Mich. (Hubbell) ; Montana and Fort McLeod,
											Alberta (Bruner). Known from east of the Mississippi only
											from Nipigon and Dwight, Ontario, and Pequaming Bay and Isle Royale, Mich. At
											Nipigon E. M. Walker (1909, 205) says it "occurs in great
											abundance, far outnumbering all the other Melanopli together, being
											particularly abundant in a rough bushy clearing on a sandy loam where it was
											associated with large numbers of Camnula pellucida. The
											Nipigon specimens exhibit great range of variation in size, color, wing-length
											and in the development of the depression or notch below the apical margin of
											the subgenital plate in the male. All gradations of this notch exist between
											individuals in which the apical margin is entire (typical bruneri) and those in which the margin itself is as deeply or more
											deeply  notched than in M.
												atlanis, the latter agreeing perfectly with Scudder's, description
											(1897, 169). and figure of M. alaskanus." At Pequaming,
											Mich., Hebard (1909, 158) found bruneri in
											meadow land in rather scarce numbers. Morse (1909, 301) states
											that M. alaskanus Scudd., described from Alaska, is
											"apparently the dominant form of the genus occurring on Isle Royale, judging
											from its abundance in the material examined and the localities where derived.
											It is recorded from clearings, along trails, rock ridges, the beach heath
											zone, etc."
										The known range of M. bruneri, as given by Scudder
												(1897, 166), extends from the points above mentioned northwest
											through Saskatchewan and Alberta to Spilmacheen, B. C., and Alaska, west to
											Montana, Idaho and Washington and south to Nebraska, Colorado and New Mexico.
											It is not recorded from Minnesota by Somes nor from Colorado by Gillette; and
												R. & H. (1906, 406) mention the taking of only a single
											specimen in Yellowstone Park, Montana.

										
											193. MELANOPLUS ATLANIS
												(Riley), 1875, 169. Lesser Migratory Locust.

											Size medium for the genus, the females but slightly the larger; form
												rather slender. Color either dark grayish- or reddish-brown above,
												greenish-yellow beneath. Head olive-brown mottled with darker; the usual
												postocular dark stripe confined to the prozona and in the reddish-brown
												specimens and females often indistinct or broken into smaller spots. Tegmina
												grayish-brown, flecked distinctly with fuscous along the median area. Hind
												femora reddish-yellow with two oblique dark bars across the upper and outer
												faces, the lower face usually pinkish or pale orange red; knees blackish.
												Hind tibiæ usually pale red, sometimes pale glaucous. Sides of abdomen dull
												yellow, often flecked with fuscous. Interocular space nearly, male, or
												fully, female, twice as broad as basal joint of antennæ; fastigium strongly
												declivent, distinctly sulcate, male, shallowly concave, female. Frontal
												costa short, not reaching clypeus, feebly or not at all sulcate below the
												ocellus, the upper third a little narrowed. Pronotum rather short,
												distinctly expanding on metazona, the disk flat or nearly so, hind margin
												obtuse-angled; metazona densely punctate, almost equalling the prozona in
												length. Extremity of male abdomen but little upcurved. Supra-anal plate
												broadly triangular, apex subacute, basal halves of side margins broadened
												and distinctly elevated; median sulcus narrow, rather deep, percurrent or
												nearly so. Furcula consisting of a pair of moderately diverging, slender
												subcylindrical tapering spines, almost one-third the length of supra-anal
												plate. Cerci as described above and shown in Pl. III, i.
												Subgenital plate narrowing regularly from below upward, the apex somewhat
												thickened and elevated, and with a distinct median notch. Pallium
												hood-shaped, raised above the lateral margins of the subgenital plate.
												Length of body, ♂, 17--21.5, ♀, 18--27; of antennæ, ♂, 7--9, ♀, 6.5--8; of
												pronotum, ♂, 5, ♀, 5.5; of tegmina, ♂, 16--21, ♀, 15--22; of hind femora, ♂,
												11--13, ♀, 11--14 mm. (Fig. 142.)
										

										This is a very common locust throughout Indiana, having been  taken in every county in which collections have
											been made. It begins to reach maturity the latter part of May, and from then
											until late November may be noted almost anywhere in open bluegrass pastures
											and woods, borders of roadsides and cultivated fields, meadows and lawns.
											Numerous examples have been found pairing as late as November 22d, and it may
											be that there are two broods each season. In late spring and early summer they
											are often seen resting on iron-weeds and thistles in company with M. gracilis, M. luridus and other species. The cast off skin of their
											final moult is often noted on such weeds, showing that the nymph climbs
											thereon to change its garment of youth for one of maturity.
										
											Fig. 142. Male. Natural size.
										
										Atlanis is very often found associated with the more common
												M. femur-rubrum and is considered that species by most
											persons who deign to notice such a thing as a locust. The male, however, may
											be readily distinguished from that of femur-rubrum by the
											notched apex of subgenital plate, the shorter and less tapering cerci, and by
											the greater relative length of the tegmina, which extend one-fourth or more
											their length beyond the tip of abdomen. The dark spots on tegmina are also
											larger and more distinct in atlanis. The female of atlanis
											may be known by the yellow color of the under side of abdomen which in femur-rubrum is reddish-brown; and also by the more distinctly
											banded hind femora and more tapering and sharper pointed prosternal spine. The
											earlier specimens of atlanis are in general lighter colored
											and have relatively longer tegmina than those of late autumn, which are very
											dark gray in hue. The hind tibiæ are normally pale red, but in about 8 per
											cent. of the specimens they are either red at tip and otherwise colored, or
											dull yellow, or glaucous, the males having them more variable in hue than the
											females.
										The range of atlanis is a very wide one, extending from New
											England and Nova Scotia north to latitude 50° and the Yukon River, west to the
											Pacific and south to northern Florida, Texas and middle California. In Florida
											it has been recorded only from Marianna, where Morse took specimens on August
											6. He states (1904, 42) hat it "is probably the most widely and generally
											distributed of all the locusts inhabiting the Southeastern States, breeding
											from sea-level to the summit of Roan Mountain." R. & H. (1916,
												237) state that atlanis is "relatively infrequent
											in the Coastal Plain south of North Carolina and the lower Gulf drainage of
											Southern Georgia," the only known South Georgia locality being
											Thomasville.




										

										Scudder (1897, 182) says of atlanis: "Next to
												M. spretus this is our most destructive locust, and east
											of the Mississippi probably the only one ever doing much damage. Its injuries,
											however, are not for a moment to be compared with those inflicted by M. spretus, for, though possessing good powers of flight and
											on rare occasions known to migrate in swarms, its injuries can only be classed
											as local, and they are never so serious as those inflicted by M.
												spretus; nevertheless they are by no means slight, and immense
											destruction of grain is to be laid at its door. While it occurs over an
											extended territory, it appears to be partial to hilly or mountainous regions;
											it seems also to prefer a wooded or mixed country to the open prairies or
											plains."
										In Old Mexico atlanis is replaced by M.
												mexicanus
											Sauss. (1861, 160), of which Hebard (1917b, 271)
											considers atlanis a northern race. He states that
											individuals from there show both red and glaucous tibiæ, the glaucous type
											being much more frequently encountered in Mexico than in the United
											States.
									

									
										Series IX. THE FLAVIDUS GROUP.

										Since this group is represented by but a single species, its principal
											diagnostic characters are given in the key and in the specific description and
											their repetition is unnecessary.

										
											194. MELANOPLUS FLAVIDUS
												Scudder, 1879, 74. Blue-legged Locust.

											Size slightly above the medium for the genus, the females one-third the
												larger; form slender. Pale olive-brown above, greenish-yellow beneath. Face
												sometimes mottled with fuscous; the black postocular stripe, when present,
												usually narrow and reaching only to metazona, often subobsolete, sometimes
												widened and extending along the sides of disk as well as those of pronotal
												lobes. Antennæ uniform dull yellow. Tegmina with a vague narrow median pale
												stripe, this often with a few small fuscous spots. Hind femora dull yellow,
												the upper half of outer face dusky, the upper and inner faces usually with
												two oblique dusky bars. Hind tibiæ blue, the spines white, tipped with
												black. Interocular space slightly wider than first antennal joint, male, as
												wide as frontal costa, female. Fastigium feebly declivent, strongly sulcate,
												male, feebly concave, female. Frontal costa prominent, broadly and rather
												deeply sulcate at and below the ocellus. Disk of prozona slightly convex,
												the sides parallel and rounded into lateral lobes; of metazona nearly flat,
												the sides feebly divergent, hind margin obtuse-angulate; median carina low,
												distinct on metazona, often vague on prozona. Tegmina narrow, slightly
												surpassing tip of abdomen, male, reaching tip or base of ovipositor, female.
												Supra-anal plate of male broadly triangular, the apical third elevated and
												abruptly subacute. Furcula as described in series key, their tips ending in
												slightly widened knobs. Cerci with base broad, triangular, the apical
												two-thirds slender, less than half as wide as base, incurved, the sides
												nearly parallel, tip bluntly rounded (Fig. 141, d.)
												Subgenital plate scoop-shaped, well rounded above, the tip slightly
												produced. Length of body, ♂, 21--26, ♀, 25--32; of  antennæ, ♂, 12--14, ♀, 10--11; of pronotum, ♂, 5--5.5, ♀,
												6--6.5; of tegmina, ♂, 18--21, ♀, 22--23; of hind femora, ♂ and ♀, 14--16
												mm.
										

										Lake County, Ind.; Moline, Ill.; Sidney, Neb.; Timnath, Colo.;
											August-September. Known from Indiana only from near Pine, Lake Co., where
											specimens were taken by J. D. Hood, Sept. 3. Ranges from northwestern Indiana
											to Montana and Colorado, south and southwest to Kansas, southern Texas, Las
											Cruces, New Mex., and Tucson, Ariz.
										This trim graceful-bodied locust is a xerophytic species occurring mainly in
											dry sandy places. Scudder's types were from Colorado. McNeill (1891,
												75) first recorded and described it from Illinois under the name M. cenchri, a synonym, stating that it occurred only on "high
											sandy ground where the sand-bur, Cenchrus tribuloides L. was
											the only vegetation. They were colored so nearly like the yellow sand that
											they were difficult to see when only two or three feet away." Hart
												(1907, 233) states that it is "common everywhere in blowouts and on
											very sandy ground" in northwestern Illinois, and also records it from Lone
											Rock, Wis. Vestal (1913, 23) states that from July 19 to October
											10 it is the "most characteristic locust of the bare sand, blow sand and bare
											basins of blowouts" in northern Illinois. It is not recorded from Iowa or
											Minnesota, though it probably occurs in both states. Bruner reports it as rare
											in southwestern Nebraska. Gillette (1904, 50) states that in
											Colorado it is "a plains species, occurring sparingly in the southern portion
											of the State. It is abundant in grass pastures along the foothills, near Fort
											Collins, and has been taken feeding upon alfalfa, cabbages, leaves of plum and
											cherry trees and upon Artenmisia trifolia, so that wherever
											a food supply of native plants becomes scarce this species is likely to become
											seriously injurious to cultivated crops."
									

									
										Series X. THE IMPUDICUS GROUP.

										This group being represented by but a single species its principal characters
											are given in the series key and in the description.

										
											195. MELANOPLUS IMPUDICUS
												Scudder, 1897b, 22. Immodest Locust.

											Size medium for the genus, the females but little the larger. Color much
												as in atlanis, the dark spot on upper part of pronotal
												lobe smaller in the male, often obsolete, female; median area of tegmina
												with fewer and smaller fuscous spots; dark bars of hind femora narrower and
												less distinct; lower face orange-red. Hind tibiæ bright red, the spines
												black, paler at extreme base. Occiput slightly swollen, distinctly elevated
												above the pronotum; interocular space as broad, male, or one and a half
												times as broad, female, as first joint of antennæ. Fastigium strongly
												sloping, feebly sulcate in both sexes. Frontal costa short, not reaching
												clypeus, rather  narrow, feebly or not at all
												sulcate. Pronotum with median carina visible throughout, more distinct on
												metazona; hind margin broadly obtuse-angled; prozona longer than broad and
												one-fifth longer than the finely punctate metazona, male, subquadrate and
												subequal in length to metazona, female. Tegmina59 reaching tip of hind femora in
												both sexes, moderately broad and tapering. Supra-anal plate broadly
												triangular, almost flat, the apex acute-angulate, margins scarcely elevated;
												median sulcus confined to basal half, its bounding ridges rather high.
												Furcula consisting of a pair of very short triangular processes lying upon
												the bases of the median ridges of supra-anal plate (Pl. III, j.) Cerci narrow, slightly shorter than supra-anal plate,
												compressed, straight, the middle third about one-half as broad as the
												extreme base, the apical third but little expanded, the tip rounded.
												Subgenital plate scarcely longer than broad, subconical. Length of body, ♂,
												18--19, ♀, 22--23; of antennæ, ♂ and ♀, 8; of pronotum, ♂, 5, ♀, 5.5; of
												tegmina, ♂, 15--16, ♀, 15--18; of hind femora, ♂, 11--12, ♀, 12.5--13
												mm.
										

										So far as known this species has been taken in Indiana but once. This was on
											July 10, 1902, when I found it plentiful on a sandy wooded slope in Gibson
											County, about ten miles southeast of Mt. Carmel, Ill., and at a point where
											the terrace on the Indiana side of the Wabash River meets the sandy uplands.
											Here, among the scant grass and weeds the insect had found a suitable abiding
											place. The males take to wing readily when disturbed, but the females seem to
											depend only on their short hind legs to take them out of sight of their
											pursuer.
										The known range of impudicus is mainly southern, its most
											northern recorded station being Havana, Ill., where Hart found it in small
											numbers in August in sandy areas covered with blackjack oak. He states (1907,
											234) that it is "common on high rocky slopes of the Ozark ridge in southern
											Illinois." Its main distribution east of the Mississippi is from New Jersey
											southwest to Meridian and Monticello, Miss. West of that stream it is recorded
											only from northwestern Arkansas and Oklahoma. Morse (1907, 49)
											calls it "a widely distributed but somewhat local species frequenting the
											grasses of dry open woodlands and sometimes also fields of sandy or stony
											soil." In New Jersey Fox (1914, 514) says it is restricted to the
											Pine Barrens where it appears to be locally frequent, occurring only in pine
											or mixed pine and oak woods.
									

									
										Series XI. THE FEMUR-RUBRUM GROUP.

										Medium or small sized species of a dull reddish- or grayish-brown hue, having
											the postocular dark stripe usually distinct on prozona in both sexes; median
											carina of pronotum percurrent, 59Scudder, in his original description, gives them as
												"surpassing a little, male, or considerably, female, the hind femora," but
												this is not true of Indiana specimens.
											 sometimes faint on prozona; tegmina reaching or
											surpassing tip of abdomen and usually the hind femora, without or usually with
											very faint spots along the median area; hind tibiæ normally red with black
											spines; prosternal spine erect, cylindrical, usually somewhat appressed, the
											apex bluntly rounded; supra-anal plate of male elongate-triangular, usually
											constricted at middle; furcula and cerci variable as to species; subgenital
											plate broad at base, narrowed to about half the basal width at apex, the
											apical margin rarely elevated, not notched or tuberculate.

										
											KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF FEMUR-RUBRUM GROUP.

											a. Tegmina always distinctly surpassing the tips of hind femora,
												male, usually so, female; cerci of male strongly narrowing on basal half, at
												apical third less than half the width of base; furcula distinctly tapering
												and widely separated beyond the basal third (Pl. IV, k.)
											b. Furcula not or scarcely reaching the middle of supra-anal plate;
												general color darker, the fuscous spots of median area of tegmina very small
												and confined to its basal half. 196. FEMUR-RUBRUM.
											bb. Furcula longer, reaching considerably beyond the middle of
												supra-anal plate; general color paler, the fuscous spots of median area of
												tegmina larger and extending throughout its length. 196a.
														PROPINQUUS
											aa. Tegmina not or rarely surpassing the hind femora in either sex,
												often much shorter; cerci not or very feebly narrowing on basal half, at
												apical third more than half the width of base; furcula feebly tapering,
												parallel and but slightly separated beyond the basal third. (Pl. IV, l.) 197. BOREALIS.
										

										
											196. MELANOPLUS FEMUR-RUBRUM
												(DeGeer), 1773, 498. Red-legged Locust.

											Size medium for the genus, the males slightly the smaller. Reddish-brown
												or brownish-fuscous above, dull greenish-yellow beneath. Head olive to
												brownish-yellow, occiput darker with usually a pair of widening fuscous
												stripes on its sides. Disk of prozona generally darker than the lower half
												of its lateral lobes; the upper half of these lobes with a broad black bar,
												often subobsolete in female. Meso- and metapleura in great part, and usually
												the sides of two basal segments of abdomen, black. Hind femora
												reddish-brown, the upper half of outer face usually more or less clouded
												with fuscous, which often forms two oblique cross-bars on upper face; lower
												and inner faces dull yellow or orange. Hind tibiæ deep red, rarely pale
												yellowish-green, the spines black. Interocular space a fourth wider than,
												male, or fully twice as wide, female, as first antennal joint; fastigium
												strongly declivent, distinctly and broadly sulcate, male, feebly so, female.
												Frontal costa as broad as the interocular area, deeply sulcate at and below
												the ocellus, male, less so, female. Pronotum feebly expanding on posterior
												half, the disk flat or nearly so, and rounded into the lateral lobes; hind
												margin obtuse-angled, more broadly so in female; median carina visible
												throughout, more distinct on metazona; prozona slightly longer than
												metazona, male, subequal to it, female. Tegmina narrow, obviously though
												very gradually tapering. Extremity of male abdomen  distinctly enlarged, moderately upcurved; supra-anal plate
												elongate-triangular, its apex subacute, lateral margins thickened and
												strongly elevated to form a deep, elongate concavity each side the median
												sulcus, the latter rather wide, percurrent, its apical fourth distinctly
												expanding; pallium not or scarcely elevated. Furcula consisting of a pair of
												tapering subcylindrical spines, about half as long as supra-anal plate,
												their basal third flattened and attingent, apical two-thirds well separated
												and lying just outside the median ridges (Pl. IV, k.)
												Cerci as in key and figure cited. Subgenital plate with apex less than half
												the breadth of base, its margins not elevated, truncate and strongly
												rounded. Length of body, ♂, 17--23, ♀, 18--27; of antennæ, ♂, 8--10, ♀,
												8--8.5; of pronotum, ♂, 4.5--5, ♀, 5--6; of tegmina, ♂, 15--20, ♀, 17--23;
												of hind femora, ♂, 11-13, ♀, 12--14.5 mm. (Fig. 143.)
										

										This is the most common and one of the most injurious of our Indiana locusts.
											It occurs everywhere in blue-grass pastures and meadows, along roadsides and
											borders of cultivated fields, on city lawns and in open woodlands. In central
											Indiana it begins to reach maturity about June 5th, and has been seen in
											numbers and mating as late as November 25th. Those which occur in low, damp
											places are usually darker than those in dry upland localities. The second crop
											of clover is, in a dry season, often almost wholly destroyed by this species
											and M. differentialis. When disturbed they either hop
											vigorously to one side, or fly swiftly and noiselessly straight ahead for 30
											or more feet and then suddenly drop to the ground.
										
											Fig. 143. Male. Natural size.
										
										The range of M. femur-rubrum is practically that of America
											north of central Mexico. In the southeastern states and Florida the typical
											form is replaced by that of the doubtful race propinquus
											Scudd. It is not known from Alaska, and some of its most northern records
											perhaps properly belong to M. borealis (Fieb.). Wherever
											found it is very common and the aggregate amount of damage it annually does
											throughout North America is an enormous one. The northern form, in spite of
											its wide distribution, varies but little in color and structure; the hind
											tibiæ being very rarely dull yellow, green or greenish. The tegmina vary
											somewhat in length, reaching from the tips of hind femora to 5 mm. beyond in
											both sexes, being rarely 1 mm. shorter than the tips in female.
										Of the habits of the red-legged locust much has been written. Scudder, in his
											Revision (1897, 278) and in his Index to North American Orthoptera (1901c) has
											given full references to all its literature. I quote, therefore, only the
											concluding paragraphs of his notes on this species in the former work, as
											follows: 
											
												"The immediate distribution of this insect appears to be controlled
													altogether by climatic conditions, the chief of which is the presence of a
													certain amount of humidity. It is a frequenter of low grounds, cultivated
													fields, shady margins of woods, etc., where vegetation is rank and tender.
													It is rarely found upon dry hillsides when meadows close at hand may swarm
													with them, while the opposite is true of other species, M.
														luridus for instance; yet such specimens as do so occur will be
													found to differ from those inhabiting more favored localities, in being
													lighter colored and more uniformly grayish in tone, with slighter
													contrasts; those from dryer stations appear also to have on the average
													rather shorter wings. There is but a single annual brood which begins to
													appear full fledged in New England late in July. According to Riley, the
													eggs are not laid in a single mass, but at intervals in several; he has
													twice obtained four successive pods from a single female, covering a
													period of nearly two months and containing eggs amounting in all to from
													ninety-six to one-hundred and ten.
												"At Andover, Massachusetts, on October 5 many years ago, I observed a
													pair of this species, male and female, near together alternately signaling
													to each other with a slight quick movement, of the hind legs upon the
													tegmina, as if stridulating. I made no note of whether any sound was
													actually produced and do not now recall any."
											
										

										The Caloptenus devorator
											Scudder (1875b, 474) and the Melanoplus
												interior
											Scudder (1879, 71) are stated by their author (1897, 283) to be
											synonyms of M. femur-rubrum, as is also Caloptenus sanguinolentus Prov.

										
											196a. MELANOPLUS FEMUR-RUBRUM PROPINQUUS
												Scudder, 1897b, 24. Southern Red-legged Locust.

											Differs from typical femur-rubrum mainly in the
												characters given in key, the color of fresh specimens being usually a pale
												or olive-brown, tinged with rosaceous, sometimes with greenish. Fuscous
												spots of tegmina, especially in female, larger and more abundant. Hind
												femora dull greenish-yellow, the fuscous bars of Upper face faint or
												wanting. Supra-anal plate with apex more blunt and margins less thickened.
												Furcula longer, more evenly tapering, their apical halves less widely
												separated. Average size somewhat larger, a male at hand from Gainesville,
												Fla., being 26, and a female 27 mm. in length.
										

										This, the southern form of femur-rubrum, has been taken by
											me at Ormond, Gainesville, Sanford, Sarasota, Ft. Myers and Dunedin, Fla. It
											is almost as common in northern Florida as femur-rubrum is
											in Indiana but becomes scarce in the southern part of the State and is not
											known from the southern keys. My first specimens were taken at Ormond on March
											27, 1899, and recorded (1902, 115) as found in "an old abandoned orange grove.
											The males were abundant, the females just emerging from the final moult. It is
											a slender-bodied, long-winged species, dull in color but graceful in movement.
											They are active leapers, and when flushed usually fly noiselessly for several
											rods, then settle down upon a bunch of grass, the color of which is
											grayish-brown,  like that of their backs." About
											Dunedin both nymphs and adults occur throughout the winter along roadsides; in
											yards and gardens and old fallow or abandoned fields. South of Lakeland it has
											been hitherto recorded only from Marco.
										It is very doubtful whether the racial name propinquus is
											worthy of retention. The females, except for the slight difference in color,
											are absolutely inseparable from those of the typical form, and the males
											readily so only by the longer and less divergent furcula. R. & HI.
												(1916, 239) record the taking of intermediate forms between it and
												femur-rubrum in North Carolina, and give the range of propinquus, outside of Florida, as extending over the Southern
											Coastal Plain from extreme southern North Carolina through South Carolina and
											Georgia as far west as Flomaton, Alabama. It has, however, been recorded by
												Morse (1907, 51) from Gulfport, Miss.

										
											Fig. 144. Extremities of female abdomens of Melanoplus,
												showing the valves of ovipositor. a, of atlanis; b, borealis; c, luridus; d, confusus. Sc.= scoop of upper valves; Ang.=-angulation at base of
												scoop. (After Morse.)
										

										
											197. MELANOPLUS BOREALIS
												(Fieber), 1853, 120. Northern Locust.

											Size small, the sexes subequal. Above dark reddish-brown or
												greenish-yellow tinged with fuscous, beneath dull clay-yellow. The usual
												dark stripe on upper third of prozona distinct in both sexes, somewhat
												broken in female. Tegmina almost or wholly devoid of fuscous markings. Hind
												femora in northern individuals (borealis) broadly
												bifasciate with fuscous on upper and inner faces, lower face, except near
												base, deep red; knees black; hind tibiæ deep red, the spines wholly black;
												in southern specimens (extremus) the femora are dull
												yellow, tinged with reddish-brown, usually without traces of dark
												cross-bars, the lower face generally pale orange; knees feebly infuscated;
												hind tibiæ pale red or dull yellow. Interocular space one-half wider than
												basal joint of antennæ, male, as wide as frontal costa, female; fastigium
												rather strongly declivent, distinctly sulcate, male, broadly and shallowly
												so, female. Frontal costa very shallowly sulcate around and below the
												ocellus. Pronotum short, feebly widening backward in both sexes; prozona
												quadrate, slightly longer than metazona, male, transverse and equal to it in
												length, female; hind margin broadly obtuse-angulate, the angle more rounded
												in female; median carina distinct on metazona, often subobsolete on basal
												portion of prozona. Extremity of male abdomen but slightly swollen, feebly
												upcurved. Supra-anal plate elongate-triangular, its apex acute-angulate,
												sides not thickened, distinctly upcurved; median sulcus percurrent,
												expanding at apical third, its bounding 
												ridges thence elevated and convergent to apex, the sulcus therefore
												spear-shaped in outline. Furcula cylindrical, strictly parallel, equal,
												finger-like projections lying on the crests of the basal halves of the
												median ridges. Cerci broad, slightly falcate, shorter than supra-anal plate,
												their dorsal margin broadly concave, ventral one curved gradually into the
												blunt rounded or slightly produced apex (Pl. IV, l.)
												Subgenital plate scoop-shaped, longer than broad, its apical margin broadly
												rounded, not elevated. Pallium elevated above the floor of the subgenital
												cavity as an oblong hood-shaped tubercle. Length of body, ♂, 15--19, ♀,
												17--24; of antennæ, ♂, 8--9, ♀, 6--8; of pronotum, ♂, 4--5, ♀, 5--5.3; of
												tegmina, ♂, 10--16, ♀, 9.5--18; of hind femora, ♂, 9.5--12, ♀, 11--12.5
												mm.
										

										After carefully studying typical specimens of M. borealis
											from Ft. Rae, MacKenzie, Can. (Pribble), in my collection
											and from Rama, Nain and Hopedale, Labrador, in the E. M. Walker and Scudder
											collections, and comparing them with what has hitherto been called M. extremus (F. Walker) from New England and Northern Indiana,
											I have no hesitancy in combining the two forms under Fieber's name. The
											southern individuals (extremus) average a little smaller in
											size, are mostly of a paler general hue, have the tegmina usually shorter, the
											median carina of pronotum often subobsolete on a portion of the prozona and
											the prosternal spine somewhat shorter and stouter, but in the genital
											characters of the male and otherwise they agree with borealis in all particulars.
										This, the M. extremus of my former work (1903, 319) first
											came to my notice in Indiana on August 6, 1897, when it was found near DeLong,
											Fulton County, in an open peat bog which was surrounded on all sides by a
											heavy growth of tamarack, Larix americana Michx. But about a
											dozen specimens were secured, all of which were of the short-winged form. When
											disturbed they gave several short, quick leaps, and then burrowed as far as
											they could into the dense mass of sphagnum moss which everywhere covered the
											bog. It has since been taken several times in the same place; also in a marsh
											near the south end of Lake Maxinkuckee; and probably occurs about the most of
											the peat bogs and marshes of the northern third of the State.
										As its specific name indicates, the known range of typical M.
												borealis is northern; extending from Labrador, Nova Scotia, Hudson Bay
											and Greenland, north and west to Alaska and south and west to northern
											Massachusetts, northern Indiana and Illinois, Nebraska and Wyoming. Fieber's
											types of borealis were from Greenland, while those of
											Walker's extremus were from "Arctic America." Scudder's
											Labrador specimens were taken in August from the banks of a mountain brook.
											They were most abundant where the low shrubby vegetation was most luxuriant
											between 200  and 1,500 feet above tide.
												Caudell (1900, 511) records the taking of five adults by Prof.
											Kincaid at Kukak Bay, Alaska, on July 3. "They were taken within a few feet of
											a small pool in a sphagnum swamp. This pool, only about ten feet in diameter,
											was surrounded by vegetation in which the locusts lived. They were captured by
											causing them to leap into the water where they were easily secured."
										In northern New England borealis is said by Morse to be
											common in suitable habitats, making its appearance early and reaching maturity
											in late June or early July, and in the White Mountain region is not uncommon
											in early September. There, as elsewhere, it is partial to damp surroundings,
											frequenting the dense grass of moist meadows, bogs, sedgy swamps and mountain
											tops.
										Scudder. (1897, 289) gave the varietal name scandens to the long-winged form of extremus and
											states that "it appears to affect high latitudes and altitudes, being found in
											all the localities in the far north, on the Big Horn Mountains in Wyoming, and
											on the summits of the mountains in New England, where it is the prevailing or
											exclusive form." E. M. Walker found it common about Ft. William and Nipigon,
											Ontario, the brachypterous form greatly outnumbering the macropterous. As extremus he also records it (1910, 334) from a number of
											stations in western Canada between Winnipeg, Man., and Field, B. C.
												Hebard (1909, 157) mentions extremus as
											scarce about Pequaming, Mich., always in damp meadows, where the grass was
											luxuriant and deep. Somes (1914, 86) states that in western
											Minnesota its numbers are possibly equal to those of M.
												femur-rubrum, and that it is "found in habitats varying from flat open
											prairie to dry gravelly hills, and at times even in the tamarack growths of
											the north. It is one of our earliest species and closely follows M. minor, specimens having been taken June 14, and mating in the field
											on June 24."
										The Pezotettix septentrionalis
											Sauss. (1861, 159), the Caloptenus arcticus
											F. Walker (1870, 681) and the C. parvus
											Provancher (1876, 110) are synonyms, while numerous records of
												Pezotettix borealis and Melanoplus
												borealis from Minnesota and other points in the northern United States
											and southern Canada are to be referred to M. fasciatus.
										The Pezotettix junius
											Dodge (1876, 9) described from Nebraska and usually recorded as a
											short-winged form of M. extremus, differs from typical borealis in having the apex of subgenital plate somewhat
											broader and less produced, the basal portion of the furcula more flattened and
											the pallium not elevated. It is probably to be considered as a western race of
												borealis.
									


									

									
										Series XII. THE ANGUSTIPENNIS GROUP.

										Medium sized species of slender form and grayish- or fuscous-brown hue,
											having the piceous bar of prozonal lateral lobes narrow, often vague in
											female; disk of pronotum with sides subparallel, male, feebly expanding on
											metazona, female; median carina distinct but low on metazona, subobsolete or
											wanting on prozona; tegmina fully developed; prosternal spine rather slender,
											subcylindrical, the apex obtusely pointed, male, usually stouter, subconical,
											with apex very blunt, female; hind femora with outer face usually tinged with
											fuscous, upper and inner faces with faint fuscous cross-bars; hind tibiæ
											either glaucous or red in the same species; supra-anal plate as in Series key;
											furcula and cerci variable as to species; subgenital plate large, as broad as
											long, apex feebly narrowed, but slightly if at all elevated, the median
											portion truncate and impressed behind; valves of ovipositor short, the lower
											ones with tips decurved and basal tooth very blunt.
										Scudder ascribed to his Angustipennis Series four species, which he separated
											in his key (1897, 136) only by the color of hind tibiæ, length of male furcula
											and degree of maculation of tegmina, all extremely variable characters. Two of
											his species, which he separated from the others only by the color of the hind
											tibiæ, are known to be dimorphic in this respect, and it is very probable that
											three of his so-called species, viz., comptus, coccineipes
											and angustipennis, will in time be found to be only forms of
											one widely distributed and variable species. Three of his nominal species are
											known from the territory covered by this work. One of them is, without doubt,
											a synonym of angustipennis. The two which are sufficiently
											different to be included as valid may be separated as follows:

										
											KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF THE ANGUSTIPENNIS
												GROUP.

											a. Furcula more strongly divergent, subcylindrical, less than
												one-third as long as supra-anal plate (Pl. IV, m) ;
												tegmina often immaculate, male, usually with obscure and feeble maculation
												along the median area, female; smaller and more slender, length of body,
												male, rarely over 22, or female, over 24 mm. 198. ANGUSTIPENNIS.
											aa. Furcula but slightly divergent, one-half as long as supra-anal
												plate; tegmina with very distinct and rather prominent fuscous spots along
												the median area; larger and stouter, length of body, male, usually 24 or
												more, female, 25 or more mm. 199. IMPIGER.
										

										
											198. MELANOPLUS ANGUSTIPENNIS
												(Dodge), 1877, 111. Narrow-winged Locust.

											Size medium, rather slender, the females but little the larger. Dark
												grayish- or fuscous-brown, often with a reddish-brown tinge. Occiput and
												disk of prozona fuscous; metazona and lower halves of lateral lobes paler.
													 Tegmina as described in key. Hind femora
												dull yellowish-brown, lower face dull yellow; knees blackish. Hind tibiæ
												either pale greenish-blue or dull red, the spines black. Interocular space
												one and a half times, male, or twice, female, as broad as basal joint of
												antennæ; fastigium strongly declivent, distinctly and broadly sulcate
												throughout, male, almost flat, female. Frontal costa rather wide, nearly
												equal throughout, faintly sulcate at and below the ocellus. Pronotum as
												described above, its hind margin broadly obtuse-angled; prozona distinctly,
												male, or scarcely, female, longer than the closely punctate metazona.
												Tegmina reaching or slightly surpassing tips of hind femora, slender,
												tapering. Supra-anal plate strongly and abruptly narrowed at apical third,
												the narrowed portion in a lower plane, its apex rather blunt; sides of basal
												portion thickened, curved and upturned; median sulcus wide, rather shallow,
												confined to the broad basal portion of the plate. Furcula as described in
												key, lying outside the bases of the median ridges (Pl. IV, m.) Cerci rather short, spatulate, incurved, the middle third
												narrowest, apical third nearly as broad as base, concave without, its tip
												broadly rounded. Subgenital plate as long as broad, the apex a third
												narrower than base, its median portion a little elevated, subtruncate,
												broadly and feebly impressed behind, thus causing it to appear slightly
												emarginate. Length of body, ♂, 19--22, ♀, 21--22; of antennæ, ♂, 9.5, ♀, 8;
												of pronotum, ♂ and ♀, 5; of tegmina, ♂, 16--17, ♀, 16--18; of hind femora,
												♂, 11--12, ♀, 12--13 mm.
										

										This locust is known in Indiana only from the northwestern counties, where it
											is one of the most common species about the south shore of Lake Michigan,
											occurring in company with M. atlanis (Riley), Spharagemon wyomingianum (Thos.) and others over a large part of the
											sandy area within five miles of the lake. It seems to prefer such barren
											localities to those more promising in plant food, since Bruner mentions its
											partiality for "old breakings and well-fed pastures of many years' use." It
											probably begins to reach maturity some time in June, as numerous pairs have
											been found mating in late July. Specimens were also taken from along railway
											embankments near Kewanna, Fulton Co., July 14. The hind tibiæ of at least a
											third of the specimens of angustipennis taken in Indiana are
											red instead of blue. Since Scudder based his separation of his nominal species
												coccineipes on the color of the tibiæ and degree of
											maculation of the tegmina, I (1903, 322) definitely placed coccineipes as a synonym of Dodge's species. A year later
												Gillette (1904, 46) recorded coccineipes as
											occurring in moderate numbers over the entire plains region of Colorado and
											extending for some distance into the foothills, and added: "It seems quite
											probable that this species is nothing more than a form of angustipennis having red hind tibiæ." R. & H. (1906,
												412) record two Colorado specimens of coccineipes
											as having glaucous tibiæ, and state that "they are much inclined toward the
											opinion recently expressed by Gillette to the effect that M.  coccineipes is but a red-legged form of
												M. angustipennis." Walker (1910, 338)
											mentions angustipennis from Aweme, Man., with both blue and
											red hind tibiæ, and says: "The red-legged individuals, commonly known as M. coccineipes, are certainly not distinct from the typical
											blue-legged form." The two forms are therefore again placed as a single
											species.
										The general range of angustipennis (including its synonym,
												coccineipes) is mainly to the west and northwest of its
											Indiana station, extending from Sudbury, Ont., and Douglas Lake, Mich., to
											Aweme, Man., and Yellowstone, Montana, south to southern Colorado, Kansas and
											Texas. At Douglas Lake Vestal (1914, 108) found it rather common,
											July 1--August 14, in open aspen thickets among plants of bracken and
											blueberry near the borders of the lake. Hart (1907, 234) recorded
											it as very abundant everywhere on waste sandy land in northwestern Illinois;
											also at Waukegan on sandy ridges near Lake Michigan. Vestal
												(1913) also says that "it is the most abundant and most
											characteristic locust in the bunch-grass, being the chief plant-eater in the
											Illinois sand-prairie from July until frost." From the records it appears to
											be scarce in both Iowa and Minnesota, but in Nebraska Bruner (1897,
												136) mentions it as "quite common on low grounds in the eastern half
											of the State, preferring Artemisia ludoviciana as a food
											plant." He also states that it is increasing rapidly in numbers, and is likely
											in places to become a serious pest. The vegetation of the area which it is
											known to inhabit in Indiana is not sufficient in quantity and value to enable
											it to do much damage. Several successive favorable seasons might, however,
											enable it to so increase in numbers as to cause it to migrate into the richer
											agricultural regions to the south and east.

										
											199. MELANOPLUS IMPIGER
												Scudder, 1897b, 26.

											Distinctly larger and more robust than angustipennis,
												the sexes s subequal in size. General color darker, the prozonal dark bar
												wider, usually" more vague in female. Tegmina as described in key. Hind
												femora with upper outer face more or less suffused with fuscous, lower face
												often feebly roseate. Hind tibiæ normally glaucous, sometimes red, paler at
												base and tips, the spines with only the apical halves black. Interocular
												space wider and fastigium more broadly and shallowly sulcate than in angustipennis. Prozona one-fourth longer than metazona,
												male, the two subequal in length, female. Tegmina but slightly surpassing
												the hind femora in either sex. Supra-anal plate much as in angustipennis, with basal two-thirds relatively longer and less
												broad, its sides less curved but thickened and upturned as there. Cerci
												stouter, with dorsal margin more distinctly concave, the outer face of
												apical half broadly sulcate (Fig. 145, a.) Subgenital
												plate slightly longer, its posterior apical portion more distinctly
												truncate,  almost entire. Length of body, ♂,
												23--28, ♀, 24--30; of antennæ, ♂, 10--11, ♀, 10; of pronotum, ♂, 5.5--6.5,
												♀, 5.7--6.8; of tegmina, ♂, 20--22, ♀, 21--23; of hind femora, ♂, 14--15.5,
												♀, 15--16.5 mm.
										

										This species is included here on the single record of R. & H.
												(1916, 240) who found it at Augusta, Ga., July 29, "in moderate
											numbers in a sandy area scatteringly covered with scrub oak." It was described
											from various points in Texas and Barber Co., Kansas, and west of the
											Mississippi has since been recorded from Oklahoma, Arkansas and Minnesota.
												McNeill (1899a, 366) says that in Arkansas it is "a not
											uncommon species among vegetation in the sandy bottoms and along the banks of
											streams." Somes (1914, 88) states that in Minnesota it occurs
											only on sandy areas along the Mississippi River in the southeastern part of
											the State.
										The specimens at hand are from Oklahoma and Bonita, Texas, and have the hind
											tibiæ glaucous as described by Scudder, but Morse (1907, 48) says
											their color varies from deep blue to cherry-red and R. & H. state that in
											their Georgia specimens "the color of the caudal tibiæ ranges from dark orient
											blue to nopal red." Structurally the species is very close to angustipennis, but differs especially in its larger, stouter form and
											the longer, more parallel furcula which, as there, lie wholly outside the
											ridges of the median sulcus.

										
											Fig. 145. Extremities of male abdomens of Melanoplus. X
												4. a, impiger; b, c, packardii; d, keeleri. (After Pettit & Scudder.)
										
									

									
										Series XIII. THE PACKARDII GROUP.

										The members of this group are somewhat larger and stouter than those of the
											preceding Series. They differ mainly in the much shorter widely divergent
											furcula and in the form of the apical margin of the subgenital plate which is
											not subtruncate and vaguely concave as there, but at extreme tip well rounded
											and feebly thickened to form a small, backward projecting tubercle. They all
											agree in having the pronotal disk with sides sub-parallel in male, feebly
											divergent behind, female, hind margin broadly obtuse-angulate or sub-rounded,
											median carina distinct on metazona, wholly wanting on prozona; tegmina
											equalling or but slightly surpassing hind femora; supra-anal plate with apical
											third depressed, gradually narrowed and usually separated from the basal
											portion by an evident but narrow transverse ridge; cerci  much as in angustipennis, being shorter than
											supra-anal plate, subspatulate, incurved, the apical third concave on outer
											side.
										Scudder, in his "Revision," ascribed five species to his Packardii Series. Of these but one has been recorded from our eastern
											territory, while two others, then unknown to him, are here included.

										
											KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF PACKARDII GROUP.

											a. Interval between mesosternal lobes of male fully twice as long as
												broad; general color brownish-yellow or pale grayish-brown.
											b. Lower face of hind femora yellow; larger and much more robust,
												length of body, male, rarely less than 24 mm., of female, 26 or more mm. 200. PACKARDII.
											bb. Lower face of hind femora bright coral-red; smaller and much
												more slender, length of body, male, less than 24, of female less than 26 mm.
													201. FLUVIATILIS.
											aa. Interval between mesosternal lobes of male subquadrate, about as
												broad as long; general color dark fuscous-brown. 202. STONEI.
										

										
											200. MELANOPLUS PACKARDII
												Scudder, 1878a, 287. Packard's Locust.

											 Size usually above the medium for the genus, the sexes subequal.
												Brownish-yellow or pale reddish-brown above; dull clay-yellow beneath. Face
												usually uniform dull yellow, sometimes sprinkled with fuscous dots. Occiput
												with a broad median dark reddish-brown or fuscous stripe, this usually
												widened and extending back along the full length of the middle of pronotum,
												but often absent from the latter; upper third of prozonal lateral lobes with
												the usual dark postocular stripe of the genus, this often broken and obscure
												in female. Tegmina pale grayish- or reddish-brown, often immaculate, male,
												usually with a row of small fuscous spots along the median area, female.
												Hind femora dull yellow, the upper half of outer face usually with a narrow
												ill-defined fuscous stripe; upper face with two narrow fuscous cross-bars;
												inner and lower faces, bright to dull yellow. Hind tibiæ either glaucous or
												bright red, the apical halves of spines black. Occiput swollen, distinctly
												elevated above the pronotum; interocular space half as wide again, male, or
												twice as wide, female, as basal joint of antennæ; fastigium strongly
												declivent, widely and rather deeply concave in both sexes. Frontal costa as
												broad as interocular space, distinctly sulcate below the ocellus. Pronotum
												as described above, the prozona about one-fourth longer than metazona.
												Tegmina but slightly surpassing the tips of hind femora, distinctly the
												narrower in the male. Supra-anal plate as above described, its apex acute;
												median sulcus broad, rather shallow, percurrent, its apical third less
												distinct. Furcula consisting of a pair of short, flattened, well separated,
												unequally tapering, widely divergent processes. Cerci and subgenital plate
												as described above, the former with apex usually broadly rounded, sometimes
												subtruncate (Fig. 145, b, c.) Length of body, ♂, 22--30,
												♀, 26--33; of antennæ, ♂, 12--14, ♀, 10.5--12; of pronotum, ♂, 6.5--7, ♀,
												7--8; of tegmina, ♂, 21--24.5, ♀, 22--24; of hind femora, ♂, 14--16, ♀,
												15--16.5 mm. (Fig. 146.)
										

										A species of western and northwestern range, included here  by reason of the record of Shull (1911,
												227), who took it at Saginaw Bay, Huron Co., Mich., June 22--August
											3. Specimens (identified for him by Morse as M. fondus
											Scudd.) were taken "on bare or somewhat grassy beaches or in sandy woods,
											always in dry places and found on sand or soil, not on vegetation." Three of
											the males from the University of Michigan collection are at hand and agree
											exactly in everything but size with red-legged individuals of M.
												packardii from Colorado. They measure from 22--24 mm. in length of
											body, the western males from 24 to 30 mm. The range of M.
												packardii, including its synonym, M. fœdus
											Scudder (1879, 69) extends from the Michigan station mentioned,
											north and west to Nicola Valley, B. C., and the Pacific Coast of the U. S. and
											south and west to Iowa, Texas and New Mexico. Specimens at hand collected by
											Bruner, Gillette and others, are from Valentine, Nebraska, and Greeley, Ft.
											Collins and Golden Gate, Colorado, some being labelled M.
												packardii, others M. fœdus. The latter, neither in
											color nor structure, have any fixed characters separating them from packardii. Scudder, in his original description of fœdus says:
											"This insect is closely related to M. packardii, but by its
											dingy coloring presents a very different appearance." In his notes on the same
											form (1897, 312) he says that the original types from Pueblo, Colo., are all
											that he has seen and that it "differs but slightly from M.
												packardii and may prove to be merely a varietal form of it, dependent
											upon station, which in this species (fœdus) is in the dank vegetation of river
											bottoms where M. packardii occurs but rarely."
										
											Fig. 146. a, Male. X 1.3; b, extremity
												of female abdomen. (After Bruner.)
										
										Morse (1907, 50) records packardii from
											various stations in Oklahoma and Texas and states that he found it "common
											among weeds and tall grass, varying greatly in amount of fuscous markings on
											pronotum and hind femora, as well as in color of hind tibiæ, apparently
											running into fœdus." R. & H. (1906, 413) mention the great
											variation in color of Utah, Colorado and Montana specimens, and state that
											"most of them were taken from luxuriant weeds growing along ditches and
											drains, or about damp depressions in the prairies. The insects were active,
											but often clung tenaciously to the weeds in which they hid, and it was
											consequently easy to capture as many as desired." In Colorado, says 
											Gillette (1904, 94), packardii is a common
											species everywhere, June 24--Oct. 8, in grassy glades and mountain parks up to
											8,000 feet or more. Of the 127 specimens in the college collection at Ft.
											Collins, the hind tibiæ of 54 were blue and of 73 red. Of M.
												fœdus, Bruner (1893, 22) wrote: "This locust is in reality
											a mountain form that occurs mainly at an elevation of about 5,000 feet, and
											that frequents the edges of valleys and sunny slopes within the semi-arid
											portion of the United States. In its general appearance and structure M. fœdus is very much like the insect which is known by the
											name of M. packardii Scudder. In fact there is but little
											difference save in color between the two species." It will be seen that
											Scudder, Bruner and Morse, three of the best Orthopterologists this country
											has produced, have found no fixed characters separating fœdus from packardii, but for some reason have
											hesitated in combining the two names. I have no such hesitation and herewith
											place fœdus as an absolute synonym of packardii.

										
											201. MELANOPLUS FLUVIATILIS
												Bruner, 1897, 136. Sand-bar Locust.

											Size medium; form slender, male, more robust, female. Above grayish- or
												pale olive-brown, beneath pale to dull greenish-yellow. Face and lower
												portion of lateral lobes pale olive-green, usually immaculate. Occiput and
												disk of pronotum greenish-gray contrasting strongly with the distinct dark
												prozonal stripe below them. Tegmina pale grayish-brown, either immaculate or
												with a few faint scattered fuscous dots. Hind femora dull yellow, the upper
												face with two more or less distinct fuscous bars, lower face coral red;
												knees fuscous. Hind tibiæ pale glaucous, the spines black, pale at base.
												Occiput and frontal costa much as in angustipennis.
												Fastigium less declivent, feebly and broadly sulcate, male, shallowly
												concave, female. Disk of pronotum almost flat, the prozona one-fourth longer
												than metazona, male, scarcely longer, female. Tegmina of male very narrow,
												feebly tapering from base to the rounded tips; of female broader, of nearly
												equal width throughout. Prosternal spine slender, subcylindrical, its tip
												somewhat pointed, male, stouter with blunt apex, female. Supra-anal plate as
												described under the series heading, its margins not thickened and but feebly
												upcurved; median sulcus vague, very shallow, its bounding ridges very broad
												and low. Furcula consisting of very short widely divergent processes, lying
												outside the median ridges, their basal halves broad and suddenly constricted
												into the very slender apical portion. Cerci scarcely differing from those of
													angustipennis; slightly longer and more incurved.
												Subgenital plate scoop-shaped, as broad as long, its apical margin not
												elevated, feebly thickened at extreme apex. Length of body, ♂, 22--23, ♀,
												25--26; of antennæ, ♂, 10, ♀, 9; of pronotum, ♂, 5, ♀, 6; of tegmina, ♂,
												17--20, ♀, 20--21; of hind femora, ♂, 12--12.5, ♀, 13.5--14 mm. (Fig.
												147.)
										

										Ashland, Neb. (Bruner);. Iowa City, Ia. (Caudell). This prettily colored, slender-bodied species is known east
											of the  Mississippi only from near Moline, Ill.,
											where Hart (1907) recorded it as occurring with M.
												angustipennis and flavidus at the edge of a large
											blowout on a sand hill. As it was not treated in Scudder's "Revision" he
											described it as new under the name of M. macneilli, which
											falls as a synonym to fluviatilis. Bruner's description
											(loc. cit.) is very brief, and he states that it is "rather common along river
											valleys in eastern Nebraska, where it is to be found among vegetation growing
											on sand bars." No other mention of its occurrence can be found in the
											literature at hand.
										
											Fig. 147. Male. X 1.5. (After Bruner.)
										

										
											202. MELANOPLUS STONEI
												Rehn, 1904b, 85. Stone's Locust.

											Size medium, the females slightly the larger and more robust. Dark
												fuscous-brown above, dull reddish-brown or dirty clay-yellow beneath. Face
												greenish-yellow, strongly mottled with fuscous; occiput with a broad, often
												ill-defined, reddish-brown median stripe extending back along the middle of
												pronotum, this bordered each side by a narrow dull yellow stripe, below
												which is the usual black postocular stripe of the genus on upper halves of
												pronotal lobes; lower halves of these lobes pale brown; metapleura dull
												yellow. Tegmina fuscous-brown, the median area with a row of subquadrate
												dull yellow spots. Hind femora dull yellow, the outer face with two broad
												oblique blackish bars, these often fused to form a continuous stripe; upper
												and inner faces with three fuscous cross-bars; lower face yellow; knees
												black, their lower outer lobes pale. Hind tibiæ red or vinous brown, darker
												or sometimes greenish toward base with a black ring behind the knees.
												Occiput and frontal costa much as in packardii; fastigium
												more narrowly and shallowly concave. Pronotum as described under the series
												heading; prozona in both sexes slightly longer than metazona, median carina
												faintly visible on prozona of female. Tegmina feebly surpassing tips of hind
												femora in both sexes. Supra-anal plate as described above, its apex obtuse;
												median sulcus wide and distinct on basal portion, narrower and ill-defined
												on the depressed apical third. Furcula widely separated, strongly divergent,
												their basal portion flat, apical one much narrowed, scarcely tapering. Cerci
												as described above, less narrowed at middle than in fluviatilis, their ventral margin nearly straight, dorsal one
												broadly concave, outer surface thickly punctate. Subgenital plate as in fluviatilis, the apical tubercle more distinct. Length of
												body, ♂, 22--23.5, ♀, 26--28; of antennæ, ♂, 9, ♀, 10; of pronotum, ♂,
												5.5--6, ♀, 7.5--8; of tegmina, ♂, 17--18, ♀, 20--21; of hind femora, ♂,
												12--12.5, ♀,14--14.5 mm.
										

										Chatsworth and Harris, N. Jer., Aug. 13--20 (Davis).
											Described from New Jersey and so far recorded only from that State, though it
											has been taken by Walker (Ms.) at Godbout, Quebec, and Ft. William, Ont. At
											the former place "they were the only 
											long-winged Melanoplus present, and occurred on the coarse
											grasses of a sea-beach and sparingly in open jack-pine barrens."
										Fox (1914, 514) says that stonei is restricted
											to the northern part of the New Jersey Pine Barrens, having been taken only
											between Harris and White Horse (type locality) and near Atsion and Stafford's
											Forge. Smith (1910, 184) states that it occurs "in the low scrub
											under mixed pine and oak and on bare sand near pine woods."
										In general color M. stonei is the darkest of our eastern
											species of the genus, M. keeleri and M.
												punctulatus ranking next in darkness of hue. Rehn prefaced his original
											description as follows: "A member of the packardii group and
											related to M. packardii and fœdus but
											distinguished by the smaller size, more compressed and excavated vertex and
											fastigium, narrower frontal costa, smaller furcula, greater interval between
											the mesosternal lobes in both sexes and in the rich and striking coloration."
											The fastigium in the specimens at hand is more shallowly sulcate than those of
												packardii, while the interval between the mesosternal
											lobes of the female is but slightly wider than in that sex of packardii.
									

									
										Series XIV. THE KEELERI GROUP.

										Medium sized species of rather robust form and reddish- or fuscous-brown hue,
											having the usual dark postocular stripe of the genus vague or wanting; male
											with prozona subquadrate and interspace between mesosternal lobes half or more
											as long again as broad ; tegmina fully developed, reaching to or beyond tips
											of hind femora, their median area usually distinctly maculate with fuscous
											spots; hind femora with outer, upper and inner faces bifasciate with fuscous;
											hind tibiæ usually red, sometimes pale blue or dull greenish-yellow; extremity
											of male abdomen not greatly enlarged, but feebly upcurved; supra-anal plate
											broadly triangular, its margins but slightly recurved; cerci either distinctly
											forked or with a strongly angulate submedian process on ventral margin;
											subgenital plate variable in form.
										Two species and one variety of the group occur within the limits of the
											territory covered by this work. They were included by Scudder in his Collinus Group, but since M. collinus Scudd.
											is now recognized as a synonym of M. luridus (Dodge), the
											name of the group is likewise changed.

										
											KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF KEELERI GROUP.

											a. Lower fork of male cerci very short, represented by an angle or
												median process (Pl. IV, n); furcula rather slender spines,
												longer than the last dorsal segment to which they are attached; median area
												of  tegmina immaculate; male, very faintly
												flecked with fuscous, female; scoop of upper valves of ovipositor very
												short, the base of their outer edges entire (Fig. 144, d.)
													203. CONFUSUS.
											aa. Forks of cerci usually distinct, the lower one the narrower;
												furcula minute triangular lobes, shorter than last dorsal segment. (Pl. IV,
													o.); median area of tegmina slightly maculate with
												fuscous; scoop of ovipositor longer, the outer basal margin crenulate (Fig.
												144, c.)
											b. Subgenital plate of male longer than broad; upper fork of cerci
												strongly oblique, scarcely bent upward (Fig. 145, d);
												lower valves of ovipositor relatively long, almost straight; females rarely
												under 26 mm. in length. 204. KEELERI.
											bb. Subgenital plate as broad as long; upper fork of cerci bent
												distinctly upward (Pl. IV, o); lower valves of ovipositor
												relatively short, distinctly decurved (Fig. 144, c);
												females rarely over 25 mm. in length. 204a. LURIDUS.
										

										
											203. MELANOPLUS CONFUSUS
												Scudder, 1897b, 29. Little Pasture Locust.

											Size medium for the genus, small for the group, the sexes subequal.
												Above, dark brownish or fuscous, often with a reddish-brown tinge; below
												dull yellowish. Occiput and disk of prozona darker than metazona; the usual
												shining black bar on upper third of lateral lobes of prozona, small in male,
												often broken or subobsolete in female, bordered below with brownish-yellow.
												Hind femora brownish-yellow, lower face reddish-orange; knees black above.
												Hind tibiæ usually pale blue, pinkish at tip, sometimes red or dull yellow;
												spines black. Interocular space nearly twice, male, or three times, female,
												as wide as first joint of antennæ; fastigium but feebly declivent,
												distinctly and widely sulcate in male, depressed but scarcely sulcate in
												female, the lateral margins sharp. Frontal costa faintly narrowed between
												the antennæ, feebly sulcate at and below the ocellus. Pronotum short, but
												slightly widening on metazona; hind margin broadly obtuse-angled; median
												carina low, visible throughout, a little less distinct on prozona; disk of
												prozona broadly convex, a fourth longer than the finely punctate metazona.
												Tegmina reaching tips of hind femora, female, slightly surpassing them,
												male, of nearly equal width throughout. Supra-anal plate short, broad,
												triangular, the apex acute; median sulcus rather wide, confined to basal
												half. Furcula consisting of a pair of well separated parallel cylindrical
												spines about a fourth the length of supra-anal plate and overlying the
												ridges of its median sulcus (Pl. IV, n.) Cerci with basal
												portion stout, rectangular; apical portion nearly as long but narrower, bent
												slightly upward and inward, its dorsal margin rounded and outer face
												concave, an inferior angle or process at point of bend; the apex broadly
												rounded. Subgenital plate very short, apex rounded, the lateral margins
												incurved near base; apical margin thickened and slightly prolonged. Length
												of body, ♂, 16--18, ♀, 19--24; of antennæ, ♂, 7--8, ♀, 8--9; of pronotum, ♂,
												4.5, ♀, 5; of tegmina, ♂, 11--15, ♀, 14--17; of hind femora, ♂, 10--11.5, ♀,
												12--13.5 mm.
										

										In Indiana this appears to be one of the least common of the Melanopli,
											having been noted only in Monroe, Vigo, Putnam and Marion counties. It has
											been found in numbers but once, on June  30, on
											the bluegrass covered slope of an open woods pasture in Putnam Co. At the
											other localities only one or two specimens were secured, the earliest date
											being that of a single male in Marion Co., on June 1. It frequents blue-grass
											pastures, roadsides and borders of cultivated fields in upland or sandy
											regions, and when disturbed flies noiselessly for a short distance. In the
											field the red-legged form closely resembles M. femur-rubrum
											and atlanis in general appearance and is very likely to be
											confounded with them. It is probably, therefore, more numerous than my
											observations would denote and perhaps occurs throughout the State.
										This small, trim-bodied locust is the M. minor (Scudd.) of
											my former work (1903, 322) and of most authors. The name minor, as first pointed out by Caudell (1915), was preoccupied by
												F. Walker (1870, 699) and the oldest synonym, M.
												confusus Scudder, therefore takes its place. The known range of M. confusus is a wide one, extending from Maine north and west
											to Toronto, Ont., Winnipeg, Man., Wyoming and Washington, and south and
											southwest to Havelock, N. Car., Missouri, New Mexico and Arizona. Morse
												(1898, 293) says that in New England it is the first member of the
											genus to reach maturity, adults having been taken on June 7. There it is found
											"most numerous among sweet vernal and blue-grasses in pastures and
											mowing-lands on gravelly or sandy upland soils. The hind tibiæ are very
											variable, ranging from cherry-red to greenish or blue. The red tibiæ are more
											common among the females (25--33 per cent., males 17--20 per cent.) ; among
											the males, however, they are frequently glaucous at base and pinkish at tip."
											In Ohio it has been recorded only from Newark, and in Michigan only from
											Douglas Lake and Saginaw Bay.
										Somes (1914, 90) states that in Minnesota the males are nearly
											all of the red-legged type and that the young appear in August and pass the
											winter in an advanced stage of development, both these conditions being
											different from those reported by observers in other States. In Colorado
												Gillette (1904, 52) reports it as occurring only in moderate
											numbers on the plains and lower foothills up to 7,000 feet in the northeastern
											part of the State, where it matures as early as June 6. Bruner records it as
											found over the entire State of Nebraska, and common early in July. About
											Charlottesville, Va., Fox (1917) found it "the dominant
											grasshopper during late May and early June, although rather strictly limited
											to the higher, drier areas and not occurring in any considerable numbers on
											farm lands. Its choice appeared to be for old upland fields and pastures
											over-run with coarse grasses (Andropogon, Danthonia),
											etc."




										


										
											204. MELANOPLUS KEELERI
												(Thos.), 1874, 69. Keeler's Locust.

											Larger and comparatively more slender than its variety, M.
													k. luridus. General color usually darker, above fuscous-brown, often
												with a tinge of purplish-red; beneath dull olive or dark greenish-yellow.
												Tegmina of female with larger fuscous spots along the median area. Oblique
												fuscous bars of hind femora and black ring at base of hind tibiæ usually
												wider and more prominent. In structure very similar to M. k.
													luridus, the principal differences being those given in the key.
												Cerci extremely variable in form, the lower fork in two of the males at hand
												being only a sharp tooth-like projection less than one-fifth the length of
												the upper one, while in another the lower fork is represented only by an
												angular protuberance, less distinct than in M. confusus.
												Length of body, ♂, 19.5--27, ♀, 26--35; of antennæ, ♂, 10--10.5, ♀, 9--10;
												of pronotum, ♂, 5--5.5, ♀, 6.3--6.7; of tegmina ♂, 17--22, ♀, 19.5--26; of
												hind femora, ♂,13--15, ♀, 15.5--18 mm.
										

										Gainesville and Dunedin, Fla. (W. S. B.); Mobile, Ala. (Loding) ; Thomasville, Ga. This is a species of southern
											range, which has been recorded from numerous stations in northern Florida by
											Davis and R. & H., and probably occurs throughout the mainland of the
											State, though apparently scarce in winter and in the southern portion so far
											known only from Miami. Thomas described it from a single Florida female. Only
											one pair has been taken at Dunedin. They were swept from wire-grass in open
											pine woods on December 4. The Thomasville, Ga., specimens were collected by
											Hebard among the undergrowth in similar woods, Dec. 3--10. The difference in
											size between the sexes is much greater than in the northern race luridus, the females being much the larger.
										The known range of keeleri extends from Petersburg, Va.,
											along the Atlantic coast to Dallas and San Antonio, Texas, Scudder's types of
												M. deletor, now recognized as a synonym of keeleri, being from Dallas. Fox (1917) records keeleri from a number of stations in Virginia, stating that
											there it "occurs typically in the grasses and low shrubbery of dry open
											woodlands." McNeill (1899a, 366) recorded it from Arkansas, but
											his specimens were probably in great part those of the northern form as he was
											the first to give an opinion that keeleri, deletor and luridus are forms of a single species. Morse (1907,
												49) states that he too was unable to separate satisfactorily Arkansas
											specimens of the three forms and records them all under the name keeleri from numerous localities in Arkansas, Oklahoma and Texas,
											stating that it is a very common species in and near woodlands, apparently not
											occurring on the treeless plains. The M. tenebrosus
											Scudder (1879, 63) is a synonym of keeleri.




										


										
											204a. MELANOPLUS KEELERI LURIDUS
												(Dodge), 1876, 11. Broad-necked Locust.

											Size medium for both genus and group, the females but little the larger.
												Above dark grayish-brown varied with fuscous; greenish-yellow beneath. Face
												dull bluish-gray with mottlings of brownish-purple; occiput and disk of
												prozona usually fuscous, the metazona paler. Upper half of lateral lobe of
												prozona with the usual black bar, this often subobsolete in female. Tegmina
												brownish-fuscous, often grayish in female, with a row of fuscous spots along
												the discoidal area; rarely immaculate. Hind tibiæ bright coral-red, the
												basal third often paler and with a more or less distinct fuscous ring near
												the knee; spines black. Interocular area slightly wider than, male, or fully
												half as wide again, female, as first antennal joint. Fastigium moderately
												sloping, shallowly and broadly sulcate in male, plane in female. Frontal
												costa of nearly equal width throughout, faintly sulcate at and below the
												ocellus. Pronotum feebly and regularly widening on posterior half, more
												strongly so in female; median carina distinct on metazona, obvious but faint
												on prozona; hind margin broadly obtuse-angulate, the angle rounded; prozona
												one-third, male, or but slightly, female, longer than the distinctly
												punctate metazona. Tegmina reaching tips of hind femora in male, often a
												little shorter in female. Supra-anal plate with apical third somewhat
												abruptly and strongly narrowed, the apex rather obtuse; median sulcus broad,
												usually confined to basal half (sometimes percurrent and slightly widening
												on apical third) its bounding ridges sharp, high and uniting each side near
												their tips with a short, low transverse ridge. Furcula as described in key
												and lying obliquely across the bases of the median ridges. Cerci forked as
												shown in plate IV, o. Subgenital plate as broad as long,
												its apex usually broadly rounded, sometimes feebly thickened, slightly
												elevated and subtruncate at middle. Length of body, ♂, 17--20, ♀, 19--25; of
												antennæ, ♂, 8.5--9, ♀, 8--9.5; of pronotum, ♂, 5, ♀, 6; of tegmina, ♂,
												13--16, ♀, 14--17; of hind femora, ♂, 10--12, ♀, 12-15 mm.
										

										This compact, dull colored locust occurs in all parts of Indiana, frequenting
											open blue-grass pastures, the borders of gravelly and sandy terraces,
											prairies, and hillside slopes. Like M. gracilis and M. bivittatus it delights, in early autumn, to carry on its
											courtship among the leaves and branches of the iron weeds. The species begins
											to reach maturity about July 20, and may be taken until late November. While
											of about the same length, the females of luridus are much
											more robust than those of either M. femur-rubrum or M. atlanis, and the tegmina just reach the tip of or are a
											little shorter than the abdomen, instead of exceeding it as in those
											species.
										In my former work (1903, 325) the M. collinus Scudder,
											whose distribution as given by its author (1897, 348) was limited to the
											region east of the Mississippi, was first placed as a synonym of M. luridus Dodge, recorded up to that time only from points west of
											that stream. This placement of collinus has been adopted by
												 most recent writers, and there is no doubt
											but that the two forms represent a single species, though Kirby (1910,
												528) lists them as distinct, and in the most recent local list of
											American Orthoptera, that of McAtee & Caudell (1918), the
											name collinus is retained. R. & H. (1916,
												242) give their opinion regarding the eastern and western forms as
											follows: 
												"It would be difficult to imagine individuals, without even racial
													significance, differing more greatly in general appearance than do the
													long-winged slender examples of luridus from the
													northwestern portion of its range, from the heavy, short-winged type which
													is often found in Connecticut and New Jersey southward through the
													Appalachians. This is particularly true of the female sex; northwestern
													material bearing a strong superficial resemblance to M.
														atlanis, while the southeastern is vastly heavier with a different
													general appearance. Intergradation between these types is, however, almost
													everywhere to be found and no valid reason exists for separating the
													eastern and western material as geographic races."
											
										
										The known range of M. k. luridus is a very wide one,
											extending from Maine north and northwest to North Bay, Ont., Aweme, Man.,
											Minnesota and Montana, south to the crests of the higher mountains of North
											Carolina and Georgia and west to Kansas, Nebraska and Colorado. According to
												Walker (1899, 33) it is quite plentiful in Ontario in late
											summer, frequenting sandy or gravelly uplands and the more or less open or
											rocky unsettled country such as characterizes the Laurentian area in that
											region. Along the Severn River he found it in August, to be the most abundant
											locust, far outnumbering any other Melanoplus. McNeill
												(1891, 74) states that in northern Illinois it is "closely restricted
											to the tops of hills and sides of ravines too barren for pasturage." Fox
												(1917) calls it "a typical sylvan species, frequenting the grassy and
											shrubby undergrowth of dry woodlands, and abundant in the Appalachian region
											of Virginia along the margins of the woods and in clearings on the mountain
											slopes." R. & H. (1910a, 635) record luridus "as being the most plentiful species of Melanoplus on all the mountains of North Carolina, at altitudes above
											4,000 feet." Morse (1904, 44) mentions it from numerous stations
											in Virginia, North Carolina, Georgia and Tennessee and calls it "an expert
											leaper, using its legs, as a means of escaping its enemies, quite as freely as
											its wings, though flying freely on occasion." West of the Mississippi M. k. luridus is stated by Bruner to be quite common,
											especially on the prairies over the most of Nebraska, while Gillette says it
											is an abundant species in northern Colorado, east of the mountains, the native
											food plant being the wormwood or sage brush, Artemisia
												dracunculoides Pursh."
									


									

									
										Series XV. THE DIFFERENTIALIS GROUP.

										Species of large size and robust form, having the general hue brownish-yellow
											or reddish-brown, the postocular dark stripe faint or wanting; disk of
											pronotum with sides subparallel, male, feebly expanding, female, median carina
											very low, usually percurrent, hind margin broadly obtuse-angulate; tegmina
											variable as to species, fully developed or slightly abbreviated; prosternal
											spine long, rather slender, subcylindrical; interval between mesosternal lobes
											of male twice or more as long as broad; extremity of male abdomen strongly
											swollen, usually distinctly upcurved; supra-anal plate broad, shield-shaped or
											subtriangular; furcula wanting; cerci variable as to species; subgenital plate
											longer than broad, comparatively narrow, the apex but slightly elevated and
											entire.
										Six closely related forms of this group are known from east of the
											Mississippi, two of them of rather wide distribution, the other four recorded
											in small numbers only from Georgia and Florida.

										
											Fig. 148. a, Extremity of male abdomen of Melanoplus
													clypeatus; c, same of M. furcatus; b, outline of
												male cercus of M. symmetricus. (After Scudder and
												Morse.)
										

										
											KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF DIFFERENTIALIS GROUP.

											a. Cerci of male roughly boot-shaped, the apical foot as long as the
												basal leg (Pl. IV, p); hind tibiæ yellow, rarely red in
												Pacific Coast specimens. 205. DIFFERENTIALIS.
											aa. Cerci of male not boot-shaped; hind tibiæ usually red.
											b. Apical margin of male cerci regularly obliquely convex or broadly
												rounded. PONDEROSUS.60
											bb. Apical margin of cerci not regularly convex or broadly
												rounded.
											c. Cerci of male not forked.
											d. Tegmina covering three-fourths of abdomen, subequal in length to
												hind femora, their costal field dark testaceous, discoidal field blackish,
												anal field light testaceous or wood-brown; apical margin of cerci broadly
												angulate, prolonged above to form a triangular lobe (Fig. 148, a.) 206. CLYPEATUS.
										

										60This species is
											dimorphic in wing-length and has been treated under Division I, p. 405, the
											short-winged form only being so far known from our territory.


										

										
											dd. Tegmina reaching tip of abdomen, distinctly longer than hind
												femora, their color brownish-yellow, but faintly marked with fuscous; apical
												margin of cerci subtruncate, above less prolonged, with angle more rounded
												(Fig. 148, b.) 206a. SYMMETRICUS.
											cc. Cerci distinctly forked or deeply emarginate.
											e. Upper fork of cerci slightly longer than the lower one (Fig. 148,
													c); anal field of tegmina grayish-yellow; discoidal
												field darker with numerous small fuscous spots or blotches. 207. FURCATUS.
											ee. Lower fork of cerci longer, with apex more narrowly rounded,
												than the upper one; discoidal field of tegmina a uniform fuscous-brown. 207a. PEGASUS.
										

										
											205. MELANOPLUS DIFFERENTIALIS
												(Thomas), 1865, 450. Differential Locust.

											Very large and robust, the females distinctly the larger. Color usually
												a nearly uniform dark brownish-green or olive-brown above, bright to dull
												yellow beneath. Face olive-green, often with oblique fuscous streaks.
												Pronotum with transverse sulci and pleural incisions black. Tegmina
												olive-brown, immaculate. Metapleura yellow; sides of basal segments of
												abdomen in part black. Hind femora either dull or bright yellow, the outer
												face with narrow black marks arranged herring-bone fashion; upper inner face
												with three oblique black bars; lower face yellow; knees black, their lower
												outer lobes bright yellow. Hind tibiæ yellow, with a narrow black basal
												ring, the spines black. Interocular space twice or more as broad as first
												antennal joint; fastigium gently sloping, broadly but not deeply concave.
												Frontal costa broad, but narrower than interocular space, broadly and
												shallowly sulcate at and below the ocellus, male, less distinctly so,
												female. Disk of pronotum flat or nearly so; median carina distinct and sharp
												on metazona, less distinct but visible on front half of prozona, the prozona
												subquadrate, slightly longer than the finely rugulose metazona. Tegmina
												exceeding tips of hind femora in both sexes, the narrowest apical portion
												about half as wide as the broadest basal portion. Supra-anal plate very
												broad, the sides of apical third rounded and thence strongly oblique to the
												obtuse apex; margins upcurved to form broad, shallow concavities each side
												of the deep, percurrent median sulcus. Cerci as in key and Plate IV, p. Subgenital plate short, broad, the middle of apical
												margin thickened, slightly prolonged upward, usually entire, rarely feebly
												notched. Upper valves of ovipositor short, stout, tips strongly upcurved,
												outer margins distinctly crenulate. Length of body, ♂, 28--34, ♀, 34--44; of
												antennæ, ♂, 16--18, ♀, 15--16; of pronotum, ♂, 7, ♀, 10; of tegmina, ♂,
												29--32, ♀, 32--35; of hind femora, ♂, 18.5--20, ♀, 21--23 mm. (Fig.
												149.)
										

										This is the largest and at the same time one of the most common and
											destructive of our Melanopli. It occurs throughout Indiana, reaching maturity
											in the central portion about July 25th, and may be found in favorable seasons
											until December 1st. In late autumn the females are always worn and bedraggled,
											while many of the males are bright colored and evidently freshly moulted. The
											species becomes darker with age and those which mature in autumn are darker
											than those of mid-summer, often in great  part
											melanistic. In autumn it is common on the lawns, vacant lots and sidewalks of
											Indianapolis, and in 1918, together with M. femur-rubrum and
												bivittatus, did a vast amount of damage throughout the
											State to clover and other forage crops.
										In Indiana, this lubberly locust delights in low, damp waste places, such as
											the margins of lakes and ponds, the borders of streams, fence rows and the
											margins of low-land cultivated fields. It is especially fond of the greater
											rag weed, Ambrosia trifida L., of the river bottoms, and is
											often seen by scores feeding upon its leaves, or mating among its foliage. The
											various species of smartweed, Polygonum, which grow in
											shallow water, are also much frequented by it in early autumn. Occasionally
											vast numbers are seen along the edge of a field of low-land corn, the leaves
											of the marginal rows of which they have almost wholly destroyed. When a stalk
											is approached they do not desert it but dodge quickly around to the opposite
											side, much as does a squirrel around the trunk of a tree when pursued. If,
											however, one takes alarm and jumps, all the others in the immediate vicinity
											do likewise.
										
											Fig. 149. Male. X 1.5. (After Lugger.)
										
										In late autumn, as night approaches, this locust, as well as M.
												femur-rubrum and other species, often climb or fly to the tops of high
											weeds where, sheltered by the leaves, they cling to the stems or branches
											until the sun warms them up the next day. If the night is cool or frosty one
											can pick them off these weeds by scores in early morning. I have often
											gathered them thus for bait, getting all I needed in a few minutes for an
											entire day's fishing.
										On one occasion a specimen of differentialis was found
											feeding upon a dead example of Dichromorpha viridis, half or
											more of the abdomen of the latter having been devoured. The Loggerhead shrike,
												Lanius ludoricianus L., catches many of these and other
											locusts and often impales them on the barbs of wire fences. On one October day
											I gathered fully a pint of such impaled insects from a fence row half a mile
											long, and found that they represented sixteen species; eight of grasshoppers,
											two of katydids, and  six of beetles, all
											injurious, so that this bird, although savage and blood-thirsty, is of great
											benefit to the farmer and fruit grower.
										East of the Mississippi the known range of M.
												differentialis extends from New Jersey and Pennsylvania north and west
											to Cheboygan Co., Michigan and Illinois, south and west through Tennessee to
											Agricultural College, Miss. It appears to be scarce and recently introduced
											east of the Appalachian Mountains, having been recorded only from near Camden
											and several other points in New Jersey and the vicinity of Philadelphia, Pa.
												Rehn (1900a) says that it was first seen about Philadelphia in
											1896. In 1898 they "appeared about August 1 on the weeds on lots and even in
											the iron manufacturing sections of the city, where there is absolutely no
											vegetation." Fox (1914, 514) states that it was then abundant in
											the low marshy lands adjoining the lower Delaware River and its tributaries.
											It is not mentioned by Fox (1917) nor by McAtee and Caudell
												(1918) and therefore apparently does not occur in the east as far
											south as Virginia and Washington, D. C. In Tennessee it is known from
											Clarksville, Danville and Chattanooga. The Mississippi specimens at hand were
											taken by H. E. Weed in September, 1892. It is not recorded from Canada, and
											but once from Michigan, Vestal (1914, 108) stating that at
											Douglas Lake it was "not abundant, being near the northern limit of its
											range."
										West of the Mississippi differentialis ranges from 45°
											north latitude over practically the entire country as far west as the Pacific
											and south to Southern Mexico. Scudder says that he does not think it occurs
											above 6,000 feet, and Gillette states that in Colorado, where it is abundant
											and destructive in the lower altitudes, it has not been taken above 5,500
											feet. In Minnesota Somes (1914, 92) states that it has been taken
											as yet only in the southern part of the State, it and M.
												bivittatus being "the only locusts found far in from the margins of
											thoroughly worked lands such as corn fields. The eggs are deposited in loose
											soil or even sand, often in cultivated fields. In September we have noted
											great numbers, literally thousands, of the females drilling and ovipositing in
											an abandoned melon patch where the soil was a soft and very sandy loam. They
											were not under the vines, for the most part, but every spot of bare soil was
											occupied by one or more of the females."
										Bruner, on the other hand (1893, 16), says that: 
												"The eggs are laid in cultivated grounds that are more or less compact,
													preferably old roads, deserted fields, the edges of weed patches and well
													grazed pastures adjoining weedy ravines. Egg laying begins about  the middle of August and continues into
													October, varying, of course, according to latitude and climatic
													conditions. Usually, but not always, only a single cluster of eggs is
													deposited by each female. Frequently there are two, and in extreme cases
													perhaps even three of these clusters deposited by a single female. One
													hundred and seventy-five eggs have been counted in a single mass."
											
										

										Riley (1878, 223) states that around Dallas, Texas, Boll "found
											the eggs of differentialis very numerously placed under the
											bark of elm and hackberry logs that had been felled in low land."
										Finally, quoting in part from Scudder and Bruner, this giant Melanoplus is certainly occasionally one of the most destructive pests
											of the Upper Mississippi Valley States, having been noted as injuring grass,
											alfalfa, Indian corn, beets, orchard trees, mulberry, poplar and catalpa
											trees, and even grape vines. Dahlias, hollyhocks and other garden flowers have
											also been specified as its food, not to mention the greater rag-weed, Ambrosia trifida. It is one of the few species of locusts that
											has thus far shown a tendency toward civilization. This it has done readily,
											since its habits are in unison with the cultivation of the soil. It is only
											since the settlement of the country where it originally occurred that it has
											multiplied so as to become sufficiently numerous as to become a serious
											pest.
										The variation in color and structure of differentialis is
											very slight for a locust of such wide range. Scudder says that in California
											occasional specimens are found having the hind tibiæ bright coral-red, and
											Gillette states that in Colorado individuals that are black, except for yellow
											bands upon the legs and light posterior lateral margins of pronotum, are
											sometimes taken. This lack of variation and large size leads to its easy
											identification, and it is one of the few older described Melanopli which has
											no synonyms.

										
											206. MELANOPLUS CLYPEATUS
												(Scudder), 1877, 40. Shield-tailed Locust.

											Size large for the genus, medium for the group; form robust, the sexes
												subequal. General color dull brownish-yellow, the usual postocular dark
												stripe represented by a very narrow streak, or obsolete. Color of tegmina as
												described in key. Hind femora stout, outer face dull yellow, often suffused
												with fuscous, inner face yellow with black bars, lower face coral-red. Hind
												tibiæ dull red, paler at base, the spines wholly black. Interocular space
												narrow for the group, not as wide as frontal costa in either sex, slightly
												depressed centrally in both sexes. Fastigium gently sloping, broadly and
												shallowly concave. Frontal costa rather wide, deeply and briefly concave
												below the ocellus, its margins feebly convergent below in female. Pronotum
												as described under the series heading and tegmina as in key. Supra-anal
												plate with median sulcus percurrent, rather shallow, narrowing apically.
												Cerci stout, the basal three-fifths slightly longer  than wide, with subequal parallel sides; apical portion as in
												key and Fig. 148, a. Length of body, ♂, 28, ♀, 36; of
												antennæ, ♂, 15, ♀, 14.5; of tegmina, ♂, 17--18, ♂, 18.5; of hind femora, ♂,
												16--18, ♀, 21 mm.
										

										This species is known only from a few stations in Georgia. Scudder's types
											were from that State without definite locality. He at one time (1880, 75)
											expressed the opinion that clypeatus was the long-winged
											form of his M. nigrescens, but evidently changed his views
											as he redescribed both under different series in his "Revision." R.
												& H. (1916, 245) have recorded clypeatus from
											Thomasville and Sandfly, Ga. At the latter place it was "found to be very
											scarce in the heaviest undergrowth in gray-bark pine woods, in more or less
											swampy situations."

										
											206a. MELANOPLUS CLYPEATUS SYMMETRICUS
												Morse, 1904, 8. Symmetrical Locust.

											Very close to M. clypeatus. Color much the same, the
												discoidal field without spots and only slightly darker than the costal one.
												Inner face of hind femora coral red on basal two-thirds and with three
												oblique fuscous bars. Lateral lobes of pronotum shorter and deeper in the
												female than in that sex of clypeatus. Apex of subgenital
												plate less elevated than in clypeatus, its tip without a
												tubercle. Other differences as given in key. Length of body, ♂, 28--30, ♀,
												31--34.5; of tegmina, ♂, 19--22, ♀, 21--23; of hind femora, ♂, 16--18, ♀,
												18--20 mm.
										

										Known only from Florida. Morse's types, which I have examined, were taken at
											Carrabelle, August 9. He states that they were secured in a grassy swamp not
											far from the beach and were associated with Paroxya
												atlantica and clavuliger and Schistocerca alutacea. It is a campestral species resembling femoratus in size, appearance and haunts, save for some minor
											differences in coloring. Some of the specimens in the Philadelphia collections
											taken at Pensacola, Aug. 28, have the upper lobe of cerci more prolonged than
											in the ones from Carrabelle, approaching those of clypeatus,
											of which I regard it as only a variety.

										
											207. MELANOPLUS FURCATUS
												Scudder, 1917b, 30. Fork-tailed Locust.

											Size very large, form robust. Brownish-ferruginous, the top of head and
												prozona faintly dotted with fuscous. Tegmina colored as described in key.
												Hind femora with inner face twice barred with black, which sometimes shows
												feebly above and on outer face where it is diffused; lower face dull red.
												Hind tibiæ as in clypeatus. Interocular space broad, but
												distinctly narrower than frontal costa; fastigium very feebly depressed,
												running without break into the frontal costa which is broad, equal,
												shallowly sulcate at and below the ocellus. Pronotum as described under the
												series heading, its median carina very low, distinct only on metazona;
												prozona about a fourth longer than the finely and closely punctate metazona.
												Supra-anal plate with a deep basal median sulcus reaching beyond  middle, narrowing apically. Cerci stout, heavy,
												incurved, narrowing toward middle, then rapidly expanding and furcate, the
												upper lobe longer and more equal than lower, well rounded apically; the
												lower one subtriangular, bluntly pointed, turned but little downward (Fig.
												148, c.) Length of body, ♂, 31.5, ♀, 39; of antennæ, ♂,
												16, ♀, 17.5; of tegmina, ♂, 19.5, ♀, 23; of hind femora, ♂, 18.5, ♀, 22.5
												mm.
										

										Known only from Florida. Scudder's types were taken at Jacksonville. Other
											specimens in the Philadelphia collections were taken at Pomona, Fla., Sept.
											7.

										
											207a. MELANOPLUS FURCATUS PEGASUS
												Hebard, 1919a, 293. Swift Locust.

											"Closely related to M. furcatus. Differs in the more
												solid coloration, in this respect closely resembling M.
													clypeatus, and in the form of the male cerci, the branches of the
												forked distal portion being more elongate and slender, and the ventral
												branch exceeding the dorsal branch in length. General color varying from
												prout's brown dorsad and tawny olive laterad to a maximum intensive
												condition in which the head and pronotum are blackish chestnut brown with a
												comparatively broad blackish postocular bar, while the lateral fields of the
												tegmina are darker than the pronotum. Pale ventro-external bar of caudal
												femora much more sharply defined than in furcatus." (Hebard.)
										

										This is a form of furcatus, bearing the same relation to it
											that symmetricus does to clypeatus or that
												luridus bears to keeleri, the principal
											differences being those given in the key. It is the M.
												furcatus of R. & H. (1916, 244), nec. Scudder, the
											type series being from Billy's Island, Okefenokee Swamp, Ga. There it was
											found July 15--19, in "thick, rich bushy undergrowth surrounding wet
											depressions filled with swamp loving trees, these areas scattered through the
											long-leaf pine woods. The males frequently flew short distances in a direct
											plunging manner; the females were less likely to fly and were more difficult
											to locate."
										The four forms, clypeatus, symmetricus, furcatus and pegasus, are very closely related. All are so far known only
											from small series taken at isolated stations in an area less than 200 miles
											square in the States of Georgia and Florida. While the extremes of these
											series appear at present sufficiently different to cause them to have been
											described as distinct species, they will in time, through more extensive
											collecting, probably be found to represent varieties of the one species, clypeatus; these varieties differing somewhat in details of
											coloration, wing-length and form of male cerci, all very plastic characters
											among the Melanopli.
									

									
										Series XVI. THE BIVITTATUS GROUP.

										Only one of the five species ascribed to this group by Scudder is here
											recognized as occurring in our territory, the characters of  that species being sufficiently set forth in the
											key to Series and in the following description:

										
											208. MELANOPLUS BIVITTATUS
												(Say), 1825, 308. Yellow-striped Locust.

											Females very large for the genus, the males much the smaller. Dull
												olive-brown to brownish-fuscous above, pale yellow to dull greenish-yellow
												beneath. Face either yellow or olive-green, often flecked with fuscous;
												occiput and disk of pronotum dark olive-brown. A narrow yellowish stripe
												extends back from the upper inner angle of each eye along the sides of disk
												of pronotum nearly to tips of tegmina; this usually bordered below with
												blackish on head and lateral lobes of pronotum. Tegmina usually immaculate,
												often with a few fuscous dots along the median area. Hind femora dull
												yellow, usually with a fuscous stripe along the upper half of outer face;
												inner half of upper face with three more or less distinct fuscous bars;
												lower face yellow; knees in great part fuscous. Hind tibiæ usually bright
												coral red, with black spines, often purplish-brown or greenish-yellow.
												Interocular space wide, equalling the frontal costa and about three times
												the width of first antennal joint; fastigium feebly declivent, broadly and
												shallowly concave. Frontal costa broad, subequal, convex above the antennæ,
												slightly sulcate at and below the ocellus. Pronotum widening feebly on
												posterior half, more distinctly so in female, disk nearly flat, hind margin
												broadly obtuse-angulate or subrounded; median carina distinct on metazona,
												very low, sometimes in part subobsolete on prozona, the latter fully
												one-half, male, or about one-third, female, longer than the closely and very
												finely punctate metazona. Tegmina reaching or slightly surpassing the hind
												femora, sometimes a little shorter in female, tapering regularly and
												gradually from base to the rounded tips. Hind femora distinctly surpassing
												abdomen, male, reaching its tip or slightly beyond, female. Supra-anal plate
												broadly triangular, abruptly narrowed and sharply incised each side near the
												blunt apex; its margins upcurved to form a broad lengthwise concavity each
												side of the deep, rather narrow median sulcus. Furcula consisting of a pair
												of very short, much swollen, triangular widely separated lobes. Cerci as
												shown in Plate IV, q. Subgenital plate short, rather
												narrow, the apex slightly elevated and ending in an obtuse tubercle. Length
												of body, ♂, 23--29, ♀, 31--40; of antennæ, ♂, 14--16, ♀, 11--14; of
												pronotum, ♂, 6--7, ♀, 8--9; of tegmina, ♂, 17--22, ♀, 20--25; of hind
												femora, ♂, 13--16, ♀, 17--22 mm. (Fig. 150.)
										
										
											Fig. 150. Female. X I.3. (After Lugger.)
										

										In Indiana this is one of the most common of our early summer locusts,
											occurring everywhere throughout the State. It begins  to reach maturity about June 15th, perhaps earlier in the southern
											counties, and has mostly disappeared by mid-September. It frequents clover
											fields, open blue-grass pastures, prairies and roadsides, and is to be found
											in both moist and dry localities. When flushed, it usually leaps vigorously,
											seldom flying, and then noiselessly and for a short distance. It delights to
											rest on the branches and foliage of the iron-weeds and other Compositæ, and is
											often found after death, clinging to them and to tall grasses, where it has
											fallen a prey to the locust fungus. More than any other of our Melanopli it
											seems to be subject to the attacks of the red locust mite, Trombidium locustarum Riley. In August I once noted a large male with
											a dozen or more of the mites in different stages, attached to the membrane of
											the inner wings. A female near by, with both tegmina and wings absent, had
											more than 20 of the mites clinging to the thin membrane beneath the
											metathorax. Old and worn examples of this locust usually have the wings badly
											damaged.
										After more than 15 years additional observation I see no reason to change my
											former (1903, 331) placement of Burmeister's red-legged femoratus as an absolute synonym of Say's bivittatus. Most of the recent writers have either retained femoratus as distinct or made it a variety of bivittatus, but none of them have as yet pointed out a single fixed
											structural character of specific or even varietal value on which to base their
											retention of the name femoratus. Scudder in his key (1897,
											138) separated them solely by the difference in color of the tibiæ, and in his
											subsequent description of bivittatus (p. 367) adds: "Besides
											the differences in the hind tibiæ, there are other slight ones which I have
											attempted to state, in the abdominal appendages and in the tegmina, besides
											some distinction in the color," but he nowhere points out definitely these
											minor distinctions except in the cerci as mentioned farther on. In Indiana one
											can find in almost every colony not only red-legged and greenish-legged
											individuals, but often those in which the tibiæ are brown at base, greenish or
											glaucous in the middle and red on the apical third.
										As far back as 1859 that astute observer, Philip R. Uhler (1859, II,
												238), said of bivittatus: "Belongs to Caloptenus and is identical with C. femoratus Burm.
											It is very common on the salt marshes near Baltimore and I have once or twice
											seen it in company with C. femur-rubrum (DeGeer) in
											considerable swarms in the air." Scudder himself (1862, 466) followed Uhler
											without comment, but (1878, 285) reversed his opinion without giving reasons
											other than distributional as follows: "M. femoratus is  the species generally called Caloptenus bivittatus. The latter, however, is an interior species
											while femoratus extends across the continent."
										Rehn (1904d, 267) mentions Pequaming, Michigan, specimens as
											"having the posterior tibiæ uniformly blood-red, varying slightly in
											intensity, thus placing them in femoratus. The form of the
											cerci is also that figured by Scudder as typical femoratus."
											He adds: "Personally, I believe femoratus and bivittatus to be geographic forms of the same species very closely
											related but still typical of each other over large areas." Now Scudder's
											figures (1897, pl. XXIV, figs. 4 and 5) show very little difference in the
											form of the cerci, and in the description of the cerci of bivittatus (1897, 365) he says that they are "shaped almost precisely
											as in M. femoratus, but more elongate and with the upper
											lobe of the expanded extremity bent at a lesser angle with the basal portion."
											It has already been shown that the form of the cerci in M.
												viridipes, M. keeleri and other species of Melanoplus
											varies exceedingly and R. & H. (1905, 40; 1907, 297) reduced
												M. deletor to a synonym under keeleri on
											account of the variability in the form of that organ. One may pick at random
											20 males of bivittatus from any colony throughout its range,
											and no two of them will have the cerci exactly alike and the extremes in form
											will be as great or greater than described by Scudder.
										As to the two being geographic forms, that is controverted by the known
											distribution, both forms being found together from Ohio or farther east, to
											Oregon and Washington, and from Central Canada to at least as far south as
											latitude 40°. Scudder says that typical bivittatus does not
											occur along the Atlantic seaboard nor along the Pacific coast south of
											Washington. It is very probable that in these regions moisture and other
											conditions of habitat are such that all the tibiæ are red, just as in certain
											localities the inner wings of Arphia xanthoptera are yellow
											and in others orange-red. Numerous species of Melanopli and other locusts, as
												M. atlanis, confusus, angustipennis, packardii, etc., are
											known with tibiæ both red and otherwise colored, yet we do not give varietal
											names to each of these.
										The entomologists of the East who, for the most part, have seen only the
											red-legged form in the field, and have perhaps judged bivittatus as distinct from a few specimens received in exchange,
											should observe the two forms as they appear together by thousands on a
											mid-summer day in the meadows and pastures of the central West. They will then
											probably arrive at the same conclusion as has Somes, who says (1914, 93) : 
											
												"M. femoratus Burm, is identical with M.
														bivittatus in size, general appearance and form of cerci and
													furcula, but differs mainly in the fact that the posterior tibiæ are red.
													It can but be considered as a mere color form of this species by one
													observing the two in the field. It has no more basis for specific
													distinction than have two other color forms which I have occasionally
													taken--one in which the hind tibiæ are clear yellow throughout, and the
													other having the hind tibiæ entirely and almost uniformly dark rose
													purple. All of these color forms, including the one termed femoratus, occur together through the northern part of Minnesota,
													with typical bivittatus, and I have on many occasions
													observed specimens in coitu in which the sexes had
													differently colored hind tibiæ."
											
										

										As noted above, the known range of M. bivittatus is a wide
											one, extending from Newfoundland, Nova Scotia, Hudson Bay and Vernon, B. C.,
											south to North Carolina, the mountains of northern Georgia, Texas and Old
											Mexico, and from the Atlantic to the Pacific. While it is seldom if ever
											migratory like spretis and atlanis, it
											often occurs locally in sufficient numbers to be highly injurious to clover,
											blue-grass and other forage plants.
										Bruner (1893, 19) has well summed up its habits as follows: 
												"Next to Dissosteira carolina (L.) the two-striped
													locust is perhaps the most familiar to the greatest number of people in
													the United States. It occurs in nearly every locality over the entire
													country from the Saskatchewan River in the north to the Gulf of Mexico at
													the south, and from ocean to ocean. It is found in the low valleys near
													the seashore and upon the mountain slopes of the Rocky range and the
													interior plateaus to an elevation of nearly 10,000 feet above tide water.
													In fact, this particular species appears to be able to withstand more
													climatic variations than any other of the North American species, without
													showing marked variations in color and form. No wonder, then, that it
													occasionally becomes sufficiently numerous over limited areas to do
													considerable injury to crops. Like M. femur-rubrum and
														differentialis, bivittatus is a lover of rank and
													succulent vegetation such as is found upon bottom lands, along the edges
													of cultivated fields, at the margins of woodlands, and on the shaded
													mountain slopes. When nature has specially favored the species, as it
													sometimes does, in the way of favorable climatic conditions, the absence
													of enemies, etc., and it develops in large numbers, then these haunts are
													forsaken to a greater or less extent and it spreads over cultivated
													fields, eating the choicest of everything.
												"The egg-laying habits of bivittatus differ
													considerably from those of the smaller migratory species, insomuch as but
													one or two clusters or pods are deposited by a single female.
													Nevertheless, just as many eggs are laid by each female insect. These eggs
													are deposited in prairie sod or any compact soil in the vicinity of the
													regular haunts or feeding places. Old roads and closely cropped pastures
													when located handily are favorite resorts for the heavily-laden females
													when attending to this mission of theirs. Conditions which favor the rapid
													multiplication of other locusts. such as the migratory kinds, also favor
													the increase of this and other of our native species. Hence when we hear
													of the increase and spread of the former, we may also look for the latter
													to become more numerous.  By keeping down
													weed patches and by plowing waste places about fence corners, along
													ravines, the edges of groves and old roads, this insect can usually be
													kept moderately scarce and harmless."
											
										

										Piers (1918, 306) states that in Nova Scotia M.
												bivittatus ranks next to M. femur-rubrum, M. atlanis
											and the crickets among destructive Orthoptera. He also writes of its habits as
											follows: 
												"Near the mouth opening of insects are salivary glands which in the
													Acrididæ usually secrete a brown-colored fluid, which is also probably
													defensive in character as many species when captured very readily exude it
													from the mouth. This is particularly noticeable in M.
														bivittatus, and country children have everywhere given the
													dark-coloured secretion the name of 'grasshopper molasses,' and to the
													insect itself they occasionally apply the name 'molasses bug.' This
													species is often captured by Nova Scotian children for the sole purpose of
													seeing it exude the fluid, their invariable saying on such an occasion
													being, 'grasshopper, grasshopper, give me some molasses and I'll let you
													go.' It is also known to many children as a doughty fighter, boys often
													amusing themselves by bringing two large specimens together so that they
													wrestle vigorously with their front legs and endeavor to bite each other.
													These gay coloured locusts bring back childish memories of half forgotten
													summer days when we dallied waist-deep in the lush timothy, the air filled
													with what might be termed the 'green' scent of trampled grass; or of
													afternoons in early autumn when we loafed about the rank vegetation of
													fence-rows with its odour of dank decay."
											
										
									

									
										Series XVII. THE PUNCTULATUS GROUP.

										As this group is also represented by only a single species and its variety,
											the characters are as given in the Series key and in the following
											description:

										
											209. MELANOPLUS PUNCTULATUS
												(Scudder), 1862, 465. Grizzly Locust.

											Size medium for the genus, the males but little the smaller. Above dark
												gray, much mottled with blackish; beneath dull reddish-brown to clay-yellow.
												Head and face greenish-gray mottled with fuscous; occiput and disk of
												prozona darker, the usual black bar behind eye on upper half of lateral
												lobes often broken and somewhat indistinct. Disk and sides of metazona and
												entire surface of tegmina sprinkled with numerous rounded or quadrate
												fuscous spots, which give to the insect a grizzly appearance, quite distinct
												from that of any other of our Melanopli. Hind femora alternately and plainly
												barred with blackish and dull yellow on the upper and outer faces, the lower
												face and basal third of inner face coral red. Hind tibiæ either dull red or
												gray, or a mixture of both, the spines black. Head prominent; occiput
												swollen and distinctly elevated above the pronotum; fastigium rapidly
												sloping, sulcate throughout, the margins much raised between the eyes, which
												are separated by a space scarcely as wide as basal joint of antennæ, male,
												one-half wider, female. Frontal costa convex and prominent above the
												antennæ, of equal width throughout, feebly sulcate below the ocellus. Eyes
												large, very prominent in male. Pronotum with front border slightly flaring
												to receive the head; disk but little if any widening  behind; median carina usually visible throughout, low and often
												indistinct on prozona; hind margin broadly obtuse-angled; prozona about a
												third, male, or scarcely, female, longer than the finely rugulose metazona.
												Tegmina slightly surpassing the hind femora in both sexes, very gradually
												tapering to a well-rounded apex. Supra-anal plate of male very broadly
												triangular, almost flat, the apex acute; median sulcus wide, shallow,
												confined to the basal half. Furcula wanting. Cerci large, broad, roughly
												boot-shaped; basal half oblong, apical half expanded to nearly double the
												width of the basal, the upward expansion twice or more as large as the
												downward; the latter thin, and extended back as a wing-like border along the
												basal half (Pl. IV, r.) Subgenital plate of moderate
												width, its apex abruptly elevated into a conical tubercle. Lower valves of
												ovipositor almost straight, the lateral tooth nearly or quite obsolete.
												Length of body, ♂, 19--24, ♀, 27--29; of antennæ, ♂, 13--14, ♀, 11--12; of
												pronotum, ♂, 4.6--5.5, ♀, 5.7--6.3; of tegmina, ♂, 17--20, ♀, 18.5--22; of
												hind femora, ♂, 11.5--13, ♀, 12--14.5 mm.
										

										In Indiana this prettily mottled locust has been taken in numerous localities
											throughout the State, but is nowhere common, seldom more than half a dozen
											being seen each season. It is preeminently an autumn insect, the first mature
											specimen having been taken on August 20th, while most of those seen were in
											October and November after heavy frosts, several pairs having been found
											mating on September 24. In central Indiana it frequents for the most part low
											wooded tracts along streams, where it may often be noted resting on the trunks
											of trees, two or three feet above the ground. In the northern part of the
											State it has been found only in the depths of the tamarack swamps of Fulton
											and Marshall counties. While other Acrididæ are common up to the very border
											of the tamarack growth, this and two species of grouse locusts were the only
											ones found within this border. It is more arboreal in habits than any of our
											other northern Melanopli, in most places frequenting the vicinity of pine or
											coniferous trees, but in Indiana these are rare, and it has been taken mostly
											on those of oak, beech and maple. In action it is rather sluggish, after one
											or two short leaps usually squatting close to the earth, and seemingly
											depending upon the close similarity of its hues to the grayish lichens or
											debris about it to avoid detection.
										The general range of typical punctulatus is northern,
											extending from Maine and Ontario west to Minnesota and Nebraska, south to
											Virginia and Georgia and southwest to Dallas, Texas. It is noted as scarce
											wherever found except near Thompson's Mills in northern Georgia, where
												Allard (1916, 278) states it "was a very common species in all
											upland fields in company with M. femur-rubrum." From Ohio it
											has been recorded only from Cedar Point, while it is not mentioned in any of
											the Michigan lists.  Somes says, it is very rare
											in Minnesota, but that he has taken it in northern Iowa in low thickets of
											willow. Bruner states that in Nebraska it is "found in rather small numbers in
											oak groves in the extreme eastern part of the State."
										In Ontario the grizzly locust has been recorded only from Toronto and
											DeGrassi Point. Of its habits at the latter place E. M. Walker (1901,
												22) has given an interesting account as follows: 
												"I found them most numerous on dead stumps and logs, in a wood of second
													growth white pine. They were sometimes seen on the trunks and branches of
													living trees, but most often on the stumps and fallen trunks of the old
													forest, and on the pine rails of a snake fence enclosing the wood. They
													were found only on the borders and more open parts of the woods, where
													they were to be seen upon almost every stump. I have seen ten females on a
													single stump. It is in these dead stumps and logs that the females deposit
													their eggs, in which operation I have observed them repeatedly. The female
													chooses a crack in the wood or an old beetle boring of suitable size and
													lowers her abdomen down this, sometimes nearly as much as an inch.
													Sometimes when the hole is of a large size, only the head and legs of the
													insect can be seen above it. Unlike Chlœaltis conspersa,
													the female of M. punctulatus apparently never bores
													herself, unless merely to make her way through any loose rubbish that
													might be obstructing the hole. She generally chooses sound or only partly
													decayed wood.
												"I managed to obtain several fragments and one complete packet of eggs.
													The latter was fixed by the cement substance at its lower end to the wall
													of the beetle-boring three-eighths of an inch in diameter. It was attached
													at a distance of about three-quarters of an inch down the hole, and except
													at the lower end, which was imbedded in a depression in the wall, the
													packet was quite free. It was covered with a rather thick coating of a
													porous or vesicular cement substance, which also filled all the spaces
													between the closely packed eggs. The latter were twenty-three in number,
													and their arrangement was in general in a longitudinal direction, the
													anterior ends pointing toward the free end of the packet, but was
													otherwise irregular. The eggs are 4 to 4.8 mm. long, elongate-elliptical
													in form, finely and densely punctate and reddish-brown in hue."
											
										

										The Caloptenus griseus
											Thomas (1872, 454) and the C. helluo
											Scudder (1875b, 476) are both synonyms of M.
												punctulatus.

										
											209a. MELANOPLUS PUNCTULATUS ARBOREUS
												Scudder, 1897b, 31. Southern Grizzly Locust.

											Larger than typical punctulatus. Color much as there.
												Metazona shorter and broader, its hind margin more broadly obtuse-angulate.
												Furcula evident, consisting of a "pair of slight triangular projections at
												the inner angles of the divided last dorsal segment and overlying the ridges
												of the supra-anal plate." Subgenital plate with apical tubercle larger, more
												inflated and more prolonged upward. Length of body, ♂, 27.5--30, ♀, 36--44;
												of antennæ, ♂, 18, ♀, 16.5; of pronotum, ♂, 6.2, ♀, 8.2--8.9; of tegmina, ♂,
												22--26, ♀, 26--31; of hind femora, ♂, 15--16, ♀, 18.5--21 mm.
										

										This, the southern race of M. punctulatus, was originally
												 described from specimens taken at Dallas, and
											the Gulf Coast of Texas and in Arizona. It has since been taken east of the
											Mississippi at Lake Drummond, Dismal Swamp, Va., Southern Pines, N. Car.,
											Stone Mountain, Ga., and in Walton Co., Fla. These records are given by
												R. & H. (1916, 247) who state that the Florida specimen was
											"taken from the stomach of a turkey killed in a pine forest," while the single
											Georgia specimen was "found in a dusty road bordered on each side by heavy
											pine woods."
									
								
							
						
					

					
						Family VII. TETTIGONIIDÆ.61 KATYDIDS AND THEIR KIN.

						
							
								"I sit among the leaves here, when evening's zephyrs sigh,
								And those that listen to my voice I love to mystify;
								I never tell them all I know, altho' I'm often bid,
								I laugh at curiosity, and chirrup, 'Katy did.' "
							
						

						The family Tettigoniidæ comprises those insects commonly called katydids, green or
							long-horned grasshoppers, cone-headed grasshoppers and stone or camel crickets, the
							name "grasshopper" rightfully belonging to its winged members and not to the
							short-horned locusts or Acrididæ. The principal distinguishing characters of the
							members of the family Tettigoniidæ, as given in the key, p. 149, are the long,
							slender, tapering, many-jointed antennæ which, when turned back, usually extend far
							beyond the tip of abdomen; almost universal absence of ocelli or simple eyes; the
								four-jointed62 tarsi or feet;
							and the sword-shaped or falcate ovipositor of the females, which is made of four
							flattened plates with the edges near its tip often horny and serrate. The head in many
							of the species is wedge-shaped and the mouth-parts are well developed, the maxillary
							palpi being very long and the mandibles especially long and sharp-pointed. This
							enables the insect , to dig into plant tissue or to eat the seeds of grasses, as many
							of them do. The tegmina, when present, are usually leaf-like and of a delicate
							structure, having no stiff chitinous anterior veins. When closed the left one usually
							overlaps the right, and, in the larger forms, they slope obliquely downwards instead
							of being bent abruptly, as in the Gryllidæ or true crickets, while in most cases, the
							wings are slightly longer than the tegmina. The meso- and metathorax are less closely
							united than in the Acrididæ, 61This family of the suborder Saltaloria was for many years known as
								Locustidæ. but the genus Locusta of Linnæus was founded for a true
								locust and not for a katydid, hence recent American writers have used the name
								Tettigoniidæ, which is based upon the Linnæan genus Tettigonia,
								given to a European katydid and meaning "grasshopper" and "angle," on account of the
								shape of the tegmina. In Europe Kirby and some of the other writers use the family
								name Phasgonuridæ for the same insects, while Karney and others still retain
								"Locustidæ."
							62The members of the
								genus Daihinia, no one of which occurs in our territory, have the
								fore and hind tarsi three-jointed.
							
							
								PLATE V.
								A PAIR OF CONE-HEAD GRASSHOPPERS, NEOCONOCEPHIALUS ENSIGER HARRIS, ON GOLDEN-ROD.

								Female above: male below. (From a photograph living specimens by Dr. J. L.
									Hancock, Lakeside, Mich.)
							
							 and in the winged forms the hind legs are usually
							longer and much more slender. The males have, in many instances, abdominal appendages
							corresponding to the parts of the ovipositor which are used as clasping organs.
						The stridulating or musical organ of the males is quite similar in structure to that
							of the male cricket, being found at the base of the overlapping dorsal area of the
							upper tegmen and usually consisting of a transparent membrane, of a more or less
							rounded form, which is crossed by a prominent curved vein, which, on the under side,
							bears a single row of minute file-like teeth. In stridulating, the tegmina are moved
							apart and then shuffled together again, when these teeth are rubbed over a vein on the
							upper surface of the other wing cover, producing the familiar, so-called "katydid"
							sound. Each of the different species makes a distinct call or note of its own, and
							many of them have two calls, one which they use by night and the other by day. Any one
							who will pay close attention to these different calls can soon learn to distinguish
							each species by its note as readily as the ornithologist can recognize different
							species of birds in the same manner.
						In the northern States the notes of the katydids and green grasshoppers are not heard
							till in July, as they do not attain their wings until then. C. V. Riley who, like our
							own beloved Indiana Riley, had within his soul a true love for the poetry of nature,
							has well set forth (1874, 153) his ideas of the why and wherefore of the songs of this
							family thus: "During spring, while our birds are making love, and the males rival each
							other in their attempts to please the females with happy, jubilant song, Dame Nature
							is rearing a troupe of insect musicians, which, in their turn, will string their lyres
							and play their courtship-tunes in the later seasons, when the song of the feathered
							performers is mostly hushed.
						"Leyden's lines--
								
									'Oft have I listening mused the sultry day
									And wondered what thy chirping song might say'--
								
							 but express an inquiry often made as to the purpose and object of the grasshopper
							song. He who believes all things made for man and his enjoyment, and that nothing can
							have a purpose that does not include him in its scope, will not find an answer to the
							query; and should remember that ere man grew out of savagery the earth rang again with
							song and sound.
						"But to the mind of the naturalist, trained in deciphering Nature's hieroglyphs, the
							chattering songs is very plainly inspired by love. The male Katydid doubtless feels
							something of the same satisfaction in playing to his companions, and especially to
							Katy,  as a prima donna does in singing to an audience.
							There is a pleasure in the act which is the outcome of its being; and the fact that
							the males are principally the players, shows that the gift is not only a source of
							pleasure, but one of much importance to the species; for the rivalry among the males
							is as great as among higher animals, and a good instrument becomes, in this light,
							most important to the individual and to the species. The best player wins his coveted
							love, while the feeble and the cripples stand no chance to impair the vigor of the
							race."
						While only the males are musicians, both sexes of the winged forms are provided with
							supposed auditory organs or ears. These, when present, are similar in structure and
							position to those of the cricket, being oblong or oval cavities covered with a
							transparent or whitish membrane, known as the drum or tympanum, and situated one on
							each front leg, near the basal end of the tibiæ. The drum is a thin, tense membrane
							covering a network of nerves, ganglion cells and auditory rods. In all the wingless
							Tettigoniidæ the stridulating organs are necessarily absent and as the insect can make
							no sound, it has no use for ears and these are also absent. This is taken as strong
							evidence that the cavity on the fore leg is in reality an auditory organ, which is
							denied by Forel (1887) and some other writers, who believe that all
							insects are deaf with no special organs of hearing, but that sounds are heard or
							appreciated by their tactile organs.
						The color of each species of Tettigoniidæ is, as in most Orthoptera, admirably
							adapted to its usual surroundings. The winged forms, as the katydids and cone-headed
							grasshoppers, live amidst the foliage of trees or clumps of grass, and are therefore a
							nearly uniform bright green, while the wingless forms, which dwell in caves or hollow
							trees and beneath rocks and logs are, for the most part, gray or brown in hue. Our
							larger species, with wings fully developed, use them as their principal means of
							travel, their slender hind legs being used only to give themselves an upward impetus
							at the beginning of flight.
						In both the northern and southern states the members of this family winter chiefly in
							the egg stage, the eggs being laid in grasses, reeds, galls on willow, stems of
							plants, bark of trees and shrubs and even between the upper and lower layers of
							leaves, the ovipositor being especially adapted for this method of egg deposition. In
							southern Florida some of the species pass the winter, in part at least, as nymphs, or
							even as adults, but the number of both species and individuals then there found is far
							less numerous than of the Acrididæ. The young of the Tettigoniidæ, like  those of the other families of Orthoptera, when hatched
							from the egg resemble the adults in form but are wholly wingless. As they increase in
							size they moult or shed the skin five times, the wings each time becoming more
							apparent, until after the fifth moult, when they appear fully developed, and the
							insect is mature or full grown, never increasing in size thereafter. Throughout their
							entire lives they are active feeders, mostly herbivorous in habit, and when present in
							numbers necessarily do much harm to growing vegetation. Most of the species can be
							easily reared from the young nymphs, their successive moults being of much interest.
							They may be fed on lettuce and it is said that some of the larger species will eat
							flies and other soft-bodied insects. The males are very pugnacious, and often try to
							devour one another, so that they should be kept apart.
						The species of Tettigoniidæ occurring in the United States are distributed among
							eight subfamilies, seven of which are represented in the eastern states.

						
							KEY TO EASTERN SUBFAMILIES OF TETTIGONIIDÆ.

							a. Tegmina and wings present;63 general color green, rarely pale brown; fore tibiæ
								always with an auditory organ near the base.
							b. Prosternal spines absent; vertex ending in a blunt spine or rounded and
								deflexed, rarely or never with a projecting tubercle or cone; tegmina shorter than
								wings, rarely (Phrixa) subequal to them; hind tibiæ with an apical
								spine on each side. Subfamily I. PHANEROPTERINÆ,
									p. 458.
							bb. Prosternal spines present; vertex either terminating in a sharp flat
								spine or produced upward and forward into a rounded tubercle or prominent cone; hind
								tibiæ with an apical spine on outer side only or on neither.
							c. Tegmina leaf-like, very broad, concave within, longer than the wings;
								vertex terminating in a sharp, flat spine; disk of pronotum crossed by two distinct
								transverse sulci. Subfamily II. PSEUDOPHYLLINÆ,
									p. 494.
							cc. Tegmina narrow, expanded but little, if any, at middle, usually shorter
								than the wings; vertex terminating in a rounded tubercle or prominent cone; disk of
								pronotum without, or with only one, transverse sulcus.
							d. Front and middle femora spined beneath;64 vertex produced forward into a long, usually sharp
								cone; larger and more robust species, the length of body 24 or more mm. Subfamily III. COPIPHIORINÆ, p. 502.
						

						63Wings absent, tegmina
							very small and general color brown in the aberrant genus Belocephalus; both tegmina and wings absent in the female of Odontoxiphidium.
						64Except in some of the
							species of Neoconocephalus. Although both Redtenbacher (1896,
								13) and Scudder (1897c, 54) separate their tribes Conocephalini and Xiphidini by the sole character of the
							presence or absence of spines on the fore and middle femora, there are several species
							of Neoconocephalus, the principal genus in the former tribe, which
							have these femora wholly unarmed beneath.



						

						
							dd. Front and middle femora unarmed beneath; vertex terminating in a rounded
								tubercle with concave sides; smaller, more slender species, length of body less than
								24 mm. Subfamily IV. CONOCEPHALINÆ, p.
								533.
							aa. Tegmina and wings absent, or the former rudimentary; general color gray
								or brown.
							e. Pronotum extending back to the abdomen; prosternal spines usually
								present; tegmina present, usually rudimentary; fore tibiæ with a hearing organ near
								the base. Subfamily V. DECTICINÆ, p.
								586.
							ee. Pronotum short, not covering the whole top of thorax; prosternal spines
								absent; tegmina and wings absent; fore tibiæ without a hearing organ near the
								base.
							f. Eyes elongate-ovate, vertical, situated at the side of the basal joint of
								antennæ; ovipositor ensiform, curved strongly upward; tarsi depressed, their joints
								lobed beneath. Subfamily VI. GRYLLACRINÆ, p.
									602.
							ff. Eyes subrotund, situated partly above the basal joint of antennæ;
								ovipositor nearly straight; tarsi compressed, the joints not lobed. Subfamily VII. RHAPHIDOPHORINÆ, p. 606.
						

						
							Subfamily I. PHANEROPTERINÆ. THE BUSH AND ROUND-HEADED KATYDIDS.

							The species of this subfamily are among the largest of our winged Tettigoniidæ,
								and, with those of the Pseudophyllinæ, are commonly known as "Katydids." The name
								Phaneropterinæ is based upon the typical old world genus, Phaneroptera Serv., meaning, "visible wing," and refers to the exposed tips
								of the inner wings which extend beyond the tegmina in repose. They all agree in
								having the head short, face vertical, or nearly so; vertex varying greatly in width,
								the fastigium either ending in a blunt deflexed spine or broadly rounded, never
								projected in front of eyes as a cone or sharp spine; eyes small, variable in form,
								situated close to and at the side of basal joint of antennæ; pronotum short, its
								disk flat or concave, more or less narrowed in front, usually meeting at right
								angles the perpendicular lateral lobes, its posterior lobe prolonged distinctly
								behind them with usually a wide, deep humeral sinus or emargination at the junction;
								median carina wanting or very faint, lateral ones more or less distinct, hind margin
								broadly rounded, rarely (Arethæa) obtuse-angled; lateral lobes
								flat, their hind margin and lower posterior angle broadly rounded; lower margin
								rounded or sinuous, front margin variable; tegmina as described in key, usually a
								bright uniform green in color; wings long and strong, folded like a fan; meso- and
								metasterna broadly lobed along their median line; legs variable  in length as to genus, the front and middle ones always much shorter
								than the hind pair; ovipositor and male genitalia variable as to genus.
							These "round-headed" and "bush katydids" are mostly arboreal in habitat, the great
								majority of them passing their entire lives on shrubs and trees, where they feed
								upon the leaves and tender twigs, and, when present in numbers, often do much
								injury. The color and form of their wings serve admirably to protect them against
								their worst foes, the birds; and as they live a solitary life, i. e., do not flock
								together in numbers as do the green or meadow-grasshoppers, they are but seldom
								noticed by man. Their love calls, or songs, however, make the welkin ring at night
								from mid-July until after heavy frost, and though but one or two of the species make
								a note in any way resembling the syllables "katy did, she did," yet all are
								accredited with this sound by the casual observer, and hence the common name usually
								given to the members of this subfamily. Their call is seldom made by day for the
								obvious reason that it might attract the attention of the birds and so lead to the
								destruction of the songster. As twilight approaches, however, the male of each
								species begins his peculiar note, which is often kept up with little or no
								intermission until the approach of day warns him that his feathered enemies will
								soon be on the alert, and that silence will be, for a time, the best policy to
								pursue.
							From the other Locustidæ, these katydids differ widely in their habits of
								oviposition. The eggs are rarely deposited in the earth or in twigs, but are either
								glued fast in double rows to the outer surface of slender twigs, or are inserted in
								the edges of leaves. On account of this method of oviposition, the ovipositors of
								the katydids are broader, more curved, and more obtuse at the end than in the other
								subfamilies, whose members oviposit in the earth, in rotten wood or in sterns of
								grass.
							The subfamily is represented in the eastern states by eight genera, the principal
								literature treating especially of their species being as follows: Riley,
									1874; Brunner, 1878; Scudder, 1893, 1898;
									Blatchley, 1893, 1903; Saussure & Pictet,
								1897--1899; Rehn & Hebard, 1914, 1914a, 1914b, 1916;
									Rehn, 1917.

							
								KEY TO EASTERN GENERA OF PHANEROPTERINÆ.

								a. Hind legs nearly or fully four times as long as body (Fig. 151);
									pronotum saddle-shaped, its hind margin obtuse-angled; eyes oblong-oval, nearly
									twice as long as wide. I. ARETHÆA, p.
										460.
								aa. Hind legs at most less than three times as long as body; pronotum not
									saddle-shaped, its hind margin broadly rounded; eyes usually globose, at most but
									one-half longer than wide.



								

								b. Tegmina distinctly shorter than wings, their apex not broadly obliquely
									truncate (Fig. 157, a); apex of ovipositor not acuminate.
								c. Tegmina long, narrow, but little or slightly broader at middle than at
									apex; fastigium of vertex horizontal or but feebly deflexed, but little if any
									wider than basal joint of antennæ.
								d. Middle femora unarmed beneath; eyes subglobose; subgenital plate of
									male long, slender, upcurved, its apical notch usually V-shaped. II. SCUDDERIA, p. 462.
								dd. All the femora spinulose beneath; eyes oblong-oval, one-half longer
									than wide; subgenital plate of male short, broad, nearly straight, its apical
									notch broad and rounded. III. SYMMETROPLEURA,
										p. 475.
								cc. Tegmina broad, distinctly wider at middle than at extreme apex.
								e. Fastigium of vertex deflexed to nearly the same plane as the frontal
									fastigium, obtuse, usually twice or more than twice as as wide as first antennal
									joint.
								f. Hind femora long, reaching to or beyond apical fourth of tegmina; fore
									and middle tibiæ flat or sulcate above, their margins raised, acute; tegmina
									oblong-elliptical or ovate; ovipositor long, curved gradually upward, usually
									strongly serrate on both edges. IV. AMBLYCORYPHA, p. 476.
								ff. Hind femora shorter, stouter, not reaching beyond apical third of
									tegmina; fore and middle tibiæ smooth and rounded above without angular margins;
									tegmina ovate-lanceolate, sometimes very broadly so; ovipositor short, bent
									abruptly upward, finely or not at all serrate.
								g. Disk of pronotum flat, its margins rounded or subacute, entire;
									smaller, length of body not over 33, of tegmina, not over 50 mm. V. MICROCENTRUM, p. 484.
								gg. Disk of pronotum concave, its margins elevated and crenulate; larger,
									length of body 37 or more, of tegmina 60 or more mm. (Fig. 163, a.) VI. STILPNOCILORA, p.
									489.
								ee. Fastigium of vertex not as wide as basal joint of antennæ, but
									slightly deflexed and meeting the narrower frontal fastigium at almost a right
									angle; disk of pronotum coarsely and thickly punctate; length of tegmina not over
									33 mm. VII. TURPILIA, p. 492.
								bb. Tegmina as long as or slightly longer than wings, very broad, the apex
									obliquely truncate; apex of ovipositor acuminate; fore, and middle tibiæ flat or
									sulcate above, their margins raised, acute. VIII. PHRIXA, p. 493.
							

							
								I. ARETHÆA Stål, 1876, 55.

								Elongate, very slender species, having the face flat, perpendicular, fastigium
									triangular, depressed, declivent, sulcate, continuous with the front; antennæ very
									long, slender, the basal joint twice as long as broad, set in shallow, widely
									margined sockets; pronotum saddle-shaped with faint median carina; prozona with
										 sides rounded into the lateral lobes, metazona
									triangular, prolonged backward and upward; humeral sinus feeble; lateral lobes
									sloping, longer than wide, their hind margins very oblique, so broadly rounded
									into the sinuous lower margin that the angle is scarcely evident; tegmina very
									long, narrow, basal fifth of costal border widened, tips rounded; wings 8--9 mm.
									longer than tegmina; legs very long, extremely slender, hind tibiæ longer than the
									femora, lower lobe of knees ending in a pointed spine.
								The genus is confined to the United States and Mexico, one of the 11 known
									nominal species occurring in Georgia and Florida, the others from Texas and
									Nebraska to California.

								
									210. ARETHÆA PHALANGIUM
										(Scudder), 1877, 40.

									Size large for the genus; form elongate, compressed. General color green.
										Head with a narrow pinkish-purple stripe behind each eye these extending back,
										narrowing and converging on prozona; hind margins of metazona and lateral lobes
										white bordered within by pinkish. Hind femora tinged with pinkish-purple.
										Tegmina one-third to one-half longer than body, broader at apical fourth than at
										basal third, the stridulating field of male shorter than the disk of pronotum.
										Male with supra-anal plate very short, its apex broadly rounded; cerci short,
										stout, apically incurved, their tips acute; subgenital plate long, rigid,
										truncate at tip; styles very short, placed on the outer angles of the plate.
										Female with ovipositor very short, broad, upturned, strongly compressed, bluntly
										pointed, its sides rugose and margins finely crenate. Other structural
										characters as above given. Length of body, ♂, 16--22, ♀, 19--24; of antennæ, ♂,
										65--68, ♀, 61; of pronotum, ♂, 4.8--5.3, ♀, 5--5.8; of tegmina, ♂, 28--32, ♀,
										31--36; of wings, ♂, 36.5--43, ♀, 36.5--40; of hind femora ♂, 33--37, ♀, 36--40;
										of hind tibiæ, ♂, 41, ♀, 42; of ovipositor, 5--5.8 mm. (Fig. 151.)
								

								
									Fig. 151. Lateral view of female of Arethæa phalangium. X 2.
										(After R. & H.)
								

								This peculiar long-legged, slender-bodied species was described from Georgia, is
									known only from that State and Florida, and seems to be very scarce wherever
									found. In Florida it has been recorded only from Hastings, Gainesville, Sanford,
									Miami, Homestead, Pine Island and Ft. Myers. Nymphs were taken at Miami and Ft.
									Myers in March and April, and adults at the other stations between May 18 and Aug.
									16. Hebard (1916) says that it is 
									probable that the species occurs as adult in greater numbers earlier than do most
									other Tettigoniidæ, and that by August only occasional survivors are to be found.
									It occurs for the most part on the undergrowth of open pine woods. In Georgia it
									is known only from Thomasville, Hebardville and Augusta.
								Scudder (1877, 38) founded for this species and one other the genus
										Aegipan which has since been placed as a synonym of Arethæa. The Arethæa multiramosa
									Brunner (1878, 235) is a synonym of A.
									phalangium.
							

							
								II. SCUDDERIA
									Stål, 1873a, 41. (In honor of S. H. Scudder.) BUSH KATYDIDS.
									NARROW-WINGED KATYDIDS.

								This genus includes katydids of medium size, having the vertex compressed,
									hollowed out on either side for the better accommodation of the eyes; disk of
									pronotum flat; tegmina as described in key, their tips rounded; fore coxæ armed
									with a spine; fore tibiæ sulcate above with margins acute; hind femora long,
									slender, almost equalling the length of tegmina in some species; all the knees
									with lobes armed with two feeble spines. Males with subgenital plate as described
									in key; last dorsal segment, in all but one of our eastern species, greatly
									prolonged, decurved, forked or notched at tip to receive or partially embrace the
									apical portion of the upcurved subgenital plate (Fig. 152). Females with
									ovipositor short, broad, usually curved sharply upward, the apical third finely
									crenate on both margins (Fig. 153).
								
									Fig. 152. Lateral view of extremities of male abdomen and dorsal view of male
										abdominal process of Scudderia. a, b, of texensis; c, d, pistillata; e, f, curvicauda; g, h, furcata. (After Scudder.)
								
								The genus Scudderia is mainly confined to America north of
									Panama and up to 1898, when it was monographed by Scudder, the synonymy was so
									badly mixed that it is difficult to say just  what
									species was previously referred to by any writer. Mr. Scudder in his Monograph
									(1898) finally brought order out of chaos and fixed the present standing of most
									of the species. The genus was later again monographed by R. & H.
										(1914a), and of the 11 species and three varieties recognized by them,
									six species and two varieties are herein treated as occurring in the eastern
									states and Canada. The females are very similar and difficult to separate unless
									taken with the males in the field. The following key is therefore based mainly
									upon the latter sex.

								
									KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF SCUDDERIA.

									Last dorsal abdominal segment of male subtriangular, without an
										elongate, decurved median process; subgenital plate not compressed toward apex;
										cerci long, slender, tapering (Fig. 153, h); tegmina rather
										broad, dull, with swollen veinlets; ovipositor with both margins curved, not
										bent, more than half as long again as pronotum (Fig. 153, a.)
											211. SEPTENTRIONALIS.
									aa. Last dorsal segment of male with an elongate, median, decurved
										process either notched or forked at tip (Fig. 152, a, g);
										subgenital plate narrowed and compressed towards apex; cerci shorter, very
										strongly incurved (Fig. 153, i,) their apical third thickened;
										ovipositor bent as well as curved, distinctly less than half as long again as
										pronotum.
									b. Apex of decurved process of male not distinctly and deeply forked as
										shown in Fig. 152, h, but either with a very wide and shallow
										or a narrow median notch.
									c. Notch of dorsal abdominal process of male subquadrate, with a minute
										median tooth, the notch as wide as the middle of the upturned subanal plate and
										embracing the sides of the latter when in natural position, its lateral
										processes slender and compressed (Fig. 152, a, b); ovipositor
										suddenly and strongly bent upward, its base distinctly broader than the middle
										(Fig. 153, b.) 212. TEXENSIS.
									cc. Notch of dorsal abdominal process without a median tooth, much
										narrower than the subgenital plate and touching only, not embracing, the
										upcurved subanal plate (Fig. 152, c, f.)
									d. Tegmina usually distinctly wider than length of pronotum, not striped
										with dark brown; ovipositor less suddenly bent upward and (except in strigata) not wider at base than at middle.
									e. Lobes or lateral processes (each side of notch) when viewed from
										above, narrow and distinctly tapering apically; tegmina wide, not over four
										times longer than the middle breadth; ovipositor sharply bent upward, its base
										and middle subequal in width (Fig. 153, c.)213. PISTILLATA.
									ee. Lobes or lateral processes of notch well rounded, subequal in width,
										their margins thinner; tegmina usually no broader than depth of body, nearly or
										more than five times longer than the middle breadth.


									

									f. Tegmina at middle distinctly broader than length of pronotum; disk of
										pronotum with side margins diverging backward, subacute, not broadly rounded
										into the perpendicular lateral lobes. 214. CURVICAUDA.
									ff. Tegmina narrower, at middle no wider than length of pronotum; side
										margins of pronotum more parallel, broadly rounded into the more sloping lateral
										lobes; ovipositor distinctly broader, less suddenly bent upward. (Fig. 153, c.) 214a. LATICAUDA.
									dd. Tegmina much narrower than the length of pronotum, strongly
										reticulate, each with a blackish-brown stripe along its dorsal field; notch of
										abdominal process very shallow, the lobes each side short, broad, strongly
										flattened; lateral angles of pronotum broadly rounded; ovipositor wider at base
										than at middle (Fig. 153, f.) 215. STRIGATA.
									bb. Apex of decurved abdominal process of male distinctly and deeply
										forked (Fig. 152, g, h), usually embracing the sides of the
										upcurved subgenital plate; size smaller and form more slender than our other
										common species.
									g. Lobes of forks of abdominal process shorter, subcylindrical, rounded
										above, widely separated at tips. 216. FURCATA.
									gg. gg. Lobes of forks of abdominal process obliquely compressed, their
										upper edges subacute, more narrowly separated, especially at tip. 216a. CUNEATA.
								

								
									Fig. 153. a-g, Outlines of ovipositor of Scudderia; a, of septentrionalis; b, texensis; c, pistillata; d, curvicauda; e, laticauda; f, strigata; g, furcata;
										h, Outline of male cercus of S. septentrionalis; i, same of
											S. pistillata. All much enlarged. (After R. & H.)
								

								
									211. SCUDDERIA SEPTENTRIONALIS
										(Serville), 1839, 416. Northern Bush-katydid.

									Size very small for the genus; form slender. General color pale green more
										or less tinged with yellow; tegmina, basal half of pronotum, hind femora and all
										the tibiæ a uniform rather dark green; apical half of antennæ brownish. Disk of
										pronotum with sides feebly divergent behind, lateral carinæ evident only behind
										middle, basal lobe broader than in S. furcata. Tegmina shorter
										and broader than in furcata, more strongly reticulate and of a
										coarser texture. Male abdominal appendages as described in key, the subgenital
										plate narrowing gradually, strongly upcurved, its apex deeply and broadly
										notched. Ovipositor one-third as broad as long, gently curved, finely crenate
										above (Fig. 153, a.) Length of body, ♂, 16--18.5, ♀, 20; of
										pronotum, ♂, 4.7, ♀, 5; of tegmina, ♂, 25--28, ♀, 26--27; of hind femora, ♂ and
										♀, 18--19.5; of ovipositor, 8.7 mm. Greatest width of tegmina, ♂, 7--7.3, ♀, 7.5
										mm. (Fig. 154.)
								


								

								Greenport, Long Island, N. Y., Aug. 3; taken at light (Davis).
									A very scarce species wherever found, its known range extending from Norway,
									Maine, to West Point, Nebraska, and south to Vineland, N. Jer. The male was
									figured by Lugger (1898, 221) as that of Scudderia
										pistillata Brunner, and therefore doubtless occurs in Minnesota, though not
									definetely recorded by him. The figure from Lugger's work was also carelessly used
									by me (1903, 347) as that of the male of pistillata. The species
									is not known from Indiana, though it probably occurs about peat bogs in the
									Transition Zone of the northern third of the State. It is not recorded from Canada
									or Michigan, though a specimen from Lone Rock, Wis., is in the U. S. Nat. Museum.
									The few specimens in collections throughout the eastern states have mostly been
									taken from undergrowth in woods. The S. truncata
									Beutenmfiller (1894a, 252) is a synonym.
								
									Fig. 154. Male. Natural size. (After Lugger.)
								

								
									212. SCUDDERIA TEXENSIS
										Saussure-Pictet, 1897, 328. Texan Bush-Katydid.

									Size large for the genus. Tegmina, wings and legs bright grass green, body
										and face tinged with yellow, pale clay-yellow in dried specimens. Pronotum much
										longer than broad, narrower in front than behind, usually with a yellowish line
										along the lateral carinæ. Hind femora very slender, armed beneath on inner
										carina with three or four minute spines. Male genitalia as described in key.
										Length of body, ♂, 21--25, ♀, 24--28; of pronotum, ♂ and ♀, 5.5--6.5; of
										tegmina, ♂, 31--39, ♀, 28--38; of wings beyond tegmina, 6; of hind femora, ♂,
										26--30, ♀, 27--32; of ovipositor, 7--8 mm. Width of tegmina, 6.3--8.5 mm. (Plate
										I.)
								

								This large, narrow-winged species is, in Indiana, one of the most abundant of the
									bush-katydids, occurring everywhere throughout the State, but is much less common
									in the southern counties, where it probably reaches maturity about July 15. The
									earliest date on which adults have been taken was July 22, in Putnam County. This
									insect is probably less arboreal than any other species of katydid, as it is often
									found clinging to the tall, coarse grasses and sedges which grow near the borders
									of lakes and ponds and in damp ravines, and to the coarse weeds along the margins
									of prairies and meadows. When approached it flies rapidly in a zigzag, noiseless
									manner for a long distance to another clump of grass or weeds, or to the lower
									branches of an oak, a tree in which it delights to dwell.
								Aside from Indiana specimens others are at hand from North Madison, Conn., ,and
									Lake City, Gainesville, Dunedin and Ft. Myers, Fla. The two males from Lake City
									are very much smaller . with distinctly narrower
									tegmina than those from the north, the length of body being but 18 and of tegmina
									but 28 mm., while the greatest width of tegmina is less than 1 mm. more than the
									length of pronotum. About Dunedin the nymphs are frequent from Jan. 15 to April
									10, but the only adults seen were taken on October 31 and December 18. There it
									occurs on grasses and sedges about the borders of low places in pine woods, along
									railway embankments and in old abandoned fields. It has been recorded from
									numerous localities throughout Florida, adults having been taken at Miami in
									January and at LaBelle and Marco in April.
								Until 1898 S. texensis was confused by most American collectors
									with S. curvicauda, and many of the older records of the latter
									species refer to the former. The specific name given the species by Saussure and
									Pictet was an ill-fitting one, as it ranges from New England and Ontario west to
									Montana and Wyoming and south to southern Florida and western Texas, being
									everywhere found in suitable habitats within the bounds of the area mentioned.
										Walker (1904a, 325) states that it is "quite common in southwestern
									Ontario, but seems to be confined to that part of the province." R. & H.
										(1914a, 295) mention it as "one of the very few destructive
									Phaneropterids found in the United States, doing particular damage to cranberry
									crops. In New Jersey it has been frequently observed along the salt marshes where,
									after dark, it would be found locally abundant in areas of Scirpus, resting head down and motionless near the tips of these rushes
									and frequently beaded with dew. On bright warm afternoons it was observed in the
									taller vegetation near the border of the salt marshes, where the males were moving
									actively about emitting their rather prolonged and harsh stridulation."

								Of the notes of S. texensis
									Allard (1911, 30) says: 
										"I have heard two distinct methods of stridulation produced at will by this
												Scudderia. The usual note heard from Massachusetts to
											Georgia is a soft sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh, occasionally repeated.
											This note is produced by a rapid shuffling of the wings very briefly. At other
											times and much more rarely the call consists of a succession of sharp, keen,
											distinct rasping notes slowly delivered, zeet-zeet-zeet-zeet. These notes, which are so unlike the usual call,
											are usually at once answered in a similar manner by another individual
											elsewhere. One is at first tempted to assign them to some other insect. By
											creeping carefully toward the musician, the writer has watched this mode of
											stridulation close at hand. The tegmina are very slowly and deliberately
											opened and rasped upon each other slowly several times. These notes are really
											more in keeping with the incisive notes of other Scudderias
											and it is evident that they are not accidental. They probably convey some
											definite meaning to other individuals within earshot. S.
												texensis
											 becomes noisy as soon as the afternoon sun gets
											low, and continues to stridulate into the evening. These katydids sometimes
											congregate in small colonies of half a dozen or more in favorite spots. It is
											a persistent singer, though its notes are delivered at rather rare, irregular
											and infrequent intervals, a characteristic of most species of Scudderia."
									

								The eggs of texensis are laid in the edges of leaves between
									the upper and lower epidermis, and at first are so thin that they are not
									noticeable except when the leaf is held between one's self and the light. They are
									loosely inserted in these pockets made by the ovipositor of the mother, and as
									they swell in coming in contact with the ruptured tissues of the plant, they are
									held tightly in place. In the northern states the winter of this, as well as of
									the other species of the genus, is passed in the egg stage, the young appearing
									about the last of April.

								
									213. SCUDDERIA PISTILLATA
										Brunner, 1878, 240. Broad-winged Bush-katydid.

									Size medium for the genus. Color as in curvicauda to which
										it is closely allied. It is, however, shorter-bodied, broader-winged and
										shorter-legged. Tegmina broader than in any other species, with heavy veinlets
										which give them a very leaf-like appearance. Notch of dorsal abdominal process
										of male very similar to that of male curvicauda, but its
										lateral processes subtriangular, distinctly tapering instead of well rounded and
										of subequal breadth as in the latter species. Subgenital plate shorter than in
											curvicauda. The short, broad tegmina and short hind femora
										of pistillata are the characters which most readily
										distinguish the two. Length of body, ♂ and ♀, 19--20; of pronotum, ♂ and ♀,
										4.7--5.7; of tegmina, ♂, 29--33, ♀, 25.5--28; of hind femora, ♂, 21--29, ♀,
										19.5--21; of ovipositor, 6.5 mm. Greatest width of tegmina, ♂, 9--11, ♀, 8--9
										mm.
								

								This is apparently a scarce insect in Indiana, having been taken in small numbers
									only about the peat bogs and borders of lakes in Steuben, Fulton and Kosciusko
									counties; Aug. 13--Oct. 7. Specimens are at hand from the White Mountains, N. H.,
									Sherborn, Mass., DeGrassi Point, Ont., and Tecumseh, Mich., July 25--Sept. 3. It
									is a species of northern range, its known distribution extending from Nova Scotia
									and New England north and west to Fort Williams, Ont., Regina, Sask., and Bozeman,
									Mont., and south and west to Monterey and Bolar, Va., southern Illinois and
									northeastern Nebraska.
								Piers (1896) has given an interesting account of pistillata as it occurs in Nova Scotia as follows: 
										"This handsome katydid is very common about Halifax. It is found upon the
											foliage of bushes, chiefly alders, in or near swampy places. Although
											plentiful, its protective similitude to a leaf, both in color and form, and
											its usual slow movements, make it very difficult to detect. Usually it can be
											readily captured with the fingers while it clings to a leaf.  Occasionally, on a near approach to the bush upon
											which it rests, it will drop suddenly a foot or two to a branch beneath.
										"Attention is chiefly directed to it by the loud stridulation of the males at
											nightfall. During the day they are usually silent, or at rare intervals
											produce a short sharp zip. After dark, however, they make
											the swamp resound with their loud calls, and we then become aware of their
											abundance. On close examination at such a time the males--usually only one on
											each bush-may be seen walking very slowly over the leaves and twigs.
											Occasionally they suddenly slightly lift and part the wing covers and close
											them again, thereby producing a sharp zip or crick, this being their usual day note. After making this sound at
											irregular intervals for some time, the tegmina are opened to a greater extent,
											and are then again closed, producing a long-drawn, exceedingly loud cr-r-r-r-r-ick, which is repeated in couplets several times in
											succession. This challenging cry is immediately answered by one after another
											of its neighboring fellows, until numbers are rasping out their ear-piercing
											notes, as notable a rural chorus as that of the tree toads."
									

								Walker (1904a, 327) states that pistillata is much
									more abundant in northern than in southern Ontario, being "common on bushes, tall
									herbs and grass on the borders of low woods and along fence rows." Hebard says
									that at Pequaming, Mich.: "I heard the first katydid about August 12, and as pistillata is the only large Locustid found in this region, I knew
									what species was producing the sound. Before this date there was no insect which
									made a loud noise at night. Now in the evenings 'zikk-zikk-zikk-zikk'--'zikk-zikk, zikk, zikk' could often be heard. A
									week later they were plentiful and in the meadows and pastures their daytime note
									of 'zikk' was to be heard on all sides. Having found that they
									preferred the tops of bushes where they could sun themselves, eat and stridulate,
									I found them easy to capture, for, approaching cautiously, one could usually get
									within a few feet of the musician before it took alarm and ceased its music."
								Fox (1917) states that "at Monterey, Va., pistillate was found in briers and low shrubbery on dry stony mountain
									slopes close to the woods covering the summit where it was associated with S. furcata. At Bolar it occurred in the tall herbage of an old
									meadow in the intermontane valley. This is, I believe, the most southern authentic
									record of this species." Saussure & Pictet (1897, 332) record pistillata from Georgia. Scudder says this record is "surprising,"
									and R. & H. (1914a, 280) say "this locality is certainly an
									error, as the insect is not known to occur in the Appalachians south of northern
									Pennsylvania." Since they wrote Fox has found it in Virginia and S. & P. were
									probably correct in their record.





								

								
									214. SCUDDERIA CURVICAUDA
										(DeGeer), 1773, 446. Curve-tailed Bush Katydid.

									Size large for the genus. Closely resembling texensis in
										size and appearance. General color pale green; head, pronotum, fore and middle
										femora and under surface tinged with yellow, usually fading to dull clay-yellow
										in drying. Lateral margins of pronotum with yellow lines faint or wanting.
										Pronotum broader in front and less distinctly divergent behind than in texensis; humeral sinus less rounded, lateral lobes distinctly
										longer, their hind margin less oblique. Tegmina shorter and somewhat broader.
										Hind femora proportionally shorter. Notch of abdominal process very different,
										as described in key. Female more robust with ovipositor broader, much less
										suddenly and strongly bent upward and with serrations less prominent than in texensis. Length of body, ♂, 18--23, ♀, 19--25; of pronotum, ♂
										and ♀, 5--6; of tegmina, ♂, 26--37, ♀, 28--38; of hind femora, ♂, 21--30, ♀,
										21--32; of ovipositor, 7--8 mm. Width of tegmina, ♂ and ♀, 6--8 mm.
								

								This, the most robust of our northern species of Scudderia,
									probably occurs in all portions of Indiana, but is apparently less common than texensis, especially in the southern counties. It is abundant
									about the marshy meadows bordering some of the lakes and tamarack swamps of
									northern Indiana. The earliest date on which a mature specimen was taken was July
									10 in Knox Co. In autumn I have, for several years, found both it and texensis present in numbers in company with Mecostethus
										lineatus and Chorthippus curtipennis in a muck meadow
									forming part of a long narrow swamp five miles northeast of Indianapolis. The two
									katydids are so similar in appearance and habits of flight that they cannot be
									told apart in the field, but when closely examined are easily separated by the
									characters given in the key. As already noted, the earlier records of this species
									were largely based on specimens of texensis, both Bruner and
									Scudder for many years confusing the two. The S. curvicauda of
									my first work on the family (1893, 99) should be referred to texensis and the S. furculata (p. 100) to curvicauda. The Phaneroptera angustipennis
									Harris (1841, 129) is also a synonym of curvicauda.
								The known range of S. curvicauda, as here recognized, extends
									from Maine and Nova Scotia north and northwest to the Severn River, Ont., and
									Aweme, Man., and south and west to New Jersey, Virginia, Tennessee and Nebraska.
									The species varies much in size and appearance, R. & H. (1914a,
										281) separating the smaller northern individuals under the name S. c. borealis. The characters which they give in their key are
									comparative only, being "size small, form compact; tegmina rather broad and
									short," and in their original description they give not a single fixed  character of differential value. No one can
									satisfactorily separate a species, or even a race based on such a diagnosis, and
									as specimens at hand taken by Gooderham in Nova Scotia and Quebec show that the
									structural characters of the genital organs are precisely the same, I regard their
									name no more necessary than would be one for the small narrow-winged individuals
									of texensis recorded above from Florida. In the southern and
									southwestern states S. curvicauda merges with a form, the S. laticauda Brunner, which has some definite structural
									characters which are evident and which probably represent a valid race.
								The more recent records of curvicauda, which can be relied upon
									as belonging to that species, show that in the east and north it is more arboreal
									than in Indiana. Walker (1904a, 326) states that his Toronto
									specimens all came from trees and bushes in more or less open, partly wooded
									country. In Pennsylvania Fox (1914, 518) found S.
										curvicauda to be "essentially a sylvan species frequenting the trees and
									underbrush of both dry and moist woodlands, less frequent in the border thickets
									of open meadowlands," while about Tappahannock, Va., the few examples taken were
									found in bushes and briery thickets in the vicinity of woodland. R. & H.
										(1914a, 284) state that the species is "common and widely distributed
									through the undergrowth of the woods in the Pine Barrens of New Jersey; in this
									region S. texensis is also common, but is found only in marshes,
									swamps or bogs."
								
									Fig. 155. a, Note of Scudderia curvicauda by day; b, note of
										same species by night; c, note of Amblycorypha rotundifolia.
										(After Scudder.)
								
								Scudder (1893) has set the day and night songs of S.
										curvicauda to scale, and has given a pleasing account of their notes as
									follows: 
										"It is more noisy by night than by day; and the songs differ considerably at
											these two times. The day song is given only during sunshine, the other by
											night and in cloudy weather. I first noticed this while watching one of the
											little creatures close beside me; as a cloud passed over the sun he suddenly
											changed his note to one with which I was already familiar,  but without knowing to what insect it belonged.
											At the same time all the individuals around me, whose similar day song I had
											heard, began to respond with the night cry; the cloud passed away, and the
											original note was resumed on all sides. Judging that they preferred the night
											song to that of the day, from their increased stridulation during the former
											period, I imitated the night song during the sunshine, and obtained an
											immediate response in the same language. The experiment proved that the
											insects could hear as well as sing. * * * The note by day is bzrwi and lasts for one-third of a second. The night song consists of
											a repetition, ordinarily eight times, of a note which sounds like tchw. It is repeated at the rate of five times in three-quarters of a
											second, making each note half the length of the day note."
									
								

								
									214a. SCUDDERIA CURVICAUDA LATICAUDA
										Brunner, 1878, 238. Broad-tailed Bush-katydid.

									Larger and more robust than typical curvicauda. Color as
										there. Pronotum larger, being both wider and nearly one-fifth longer, its side
										margins more parallel and more broadly rounded into the lateral lobes. Tegmina
										more narrow, nearly five times as long as greatest width. Dorsal abdominal
										process of male broader, the notch as in curvicauda.
										Ovipositor distinctly broader and less strongly bent upward, its median and
										basal width equal or nearly so. Length of body, ♂, 21--23, ♀, 23--27; of
										pronotum, ♂, 6--7, ♀, 6--8; of tegmina, ♂, 33--39, ♀, 36--40; of hind femora, ♂,
										29--32.5, ♀, 30--35; of ovipositor, 9.5--11 mm. Greatest width of tegmina, 7--8
										mm.
								

								Mobile, Alabama, July 3 (Loding); Billy's Island, Ga., June;
									SLaGrange, Fla., Sept. 13 (Davis). Brunner's types were from
									Georgia. From Florida it has been definitely recorded only from Jacksonville,
									Atlantic Beach, Gainesville and Live Oak, though R. & H. (1914a,
										288) give its range as extending from "Wilmington, N. Car., to Sanford,
									Fla., and westward as far as Monticello, Miss." It occurs mainly in the
									undergrowth of open pine woods. They state also that intermediate forms connecting
										laticauda with curvicauda have been found in
									numerous localities from Virginia to Oklahoma, Arkansas and Texas, the area of
									intergradation between the two forms being very wide.

								
									215. SCUDDERIA STRIGATA
										Scudder, 1898, 280. Striped Bush-katydid.

									Size medium; form very slender. Dull pale green the tegmina with a
										blackish-brown stripe extending along the side of dorsal area from base nearly
										to apex of each tegmen; anal area pale brown with a large blackish sub-basal
										spot. Margins of pronotal disk yellow; upper portion of lateral lobes with an
										obscure brown stripe. Sides of abdomen with a broad interrupted brown stripe,
										this bordered above and below with a yellowish one. All the femora usually
										flecked with dark brown. Disk of pronotum more narrow than in curvicauda, its side margins broadly rounded into the lateral lobes.
										Tegmina and male abdominal process as described in key. Ovipositor as long as in
											curvicauda, bent sharply upward near basal third, the
										ventral margin evenly and strongly curved. Length of body, ♂ and  ♀, 19--22; of pronotum, ♂, 5.3, ♀, 5.7; of tegmina,
										♂, 32--33.4, ♀, 30-33; of wings, ♂ and ♀, 37--39.5; of hind femora, ♂ and ♀,
										27.5; of ovipositor, 8.2 mm.
								

								A very handsome and striking Floridian species. Taken in August and September in
									some numbers by R. & H. between DeFuniak Springs and River Junction; also at
									Grand Ridge and near Kissimmee. It occurs only in low swales between the sand
									ridges. Scudder's types were taken near Jacksonville, and he considered it as only
									a color variety of laticauda, it having been raised to specific
									rank by R. & H. (1914a, 289).

								
									216. SCUDDERIA FURCATA
										Brunner, 1878, 239. Fork-tailed Bush-katydid.

									Size small for the genus; form slender, the sexes subequal. General color a
										dark leaf-green, rarely suffused with brown, the head, pronotum and under
										surface greenish-yellow, fading to dull clay-yellow, lateral carinæ of pronotum
										rarely yellowish; antennæ green at base, the apical three-fourths dusky. Hind
										tibiæ greenish or purplish-brown, fading to dull yellow or often to dull brown.
										Disk of pronotum short with sides parallel, the margins or lateral carinæ rather
										sharp; humeral sinus relatively narnow, deep; all the margins of the lateral
										lobes broadly rounded. Tegmina subequal in width throughout, coarsely
										reticulate. Notch of male abdominal process as described in key, forming a
										curious, fork-like appendage (Fig. 152, h,)the lateral
										processes of which are subcylindrical, much swollen, and normally embrace the
										sides of the upcurved subgenital plate near the end of the latter. Ovipositor
										rather short, the dorsal margin suddenly bent upward, the basal and median width
										subequal. Length of body, ♂, 15--20, ♀, 19--21; of pronotum, ♂ and ♀, 4.6--5; of
										tegmina, ♂ and ♀, 26--32; of hind femora, ♂ and ♀, 19--20; of ovipositor, 6--7
										mm. Width of tegmina, 6--6.2; of ovipositor, 1.8--2.2 mm.
								

								
									Fig. 156. a, Male; b, female. Natural size. (After Lugger.)
								

								This fork-tailed katydid occurs in all portions of Indiana, having been taken in
									every county where collections have been made. In the hilly regions of the
									southern counties it is very common and practically the only species of Scudderia noted, texensis and curvicauda occurring about the marshes of the more level country. In
									central and southern Indiana the first mature specimens of furata appear about July 15, but they do not become plentiful before the
									first of August, and I have seen the nymphs in Vigo Co. as late as September 18.
									It is most frequently seen on the low  bushes and
									trees about the margins of thickets and along fence rows, but in the prairie
									country north it frequents coarse grasses and weeds in company with the other
									species. Its flight is noiseless, seemingly without definite direction, and is not
									so prolonged as that of S. texensis.
								This is the most widely distributed and abundant species of the genus, ranging
									from Maine, Nova Scotia and Quebec north and west to North Bay, Ont., British
									Columbia and the Pacific coast, and south and west to central Florida, the Gulf
									coast of Texas, and central California. In a part of its southwestern range it
									intergrades with the race or variety S. f. furcifera Scudder,
									full details of the distribution of both forms being given by R. & H.
										(1914a). In Florida it has been recorded definitely only from
									Jacksonville, Monticello, Pensacola, Gainesville, LaGrange and Lakeland, the last
									being its most southerly known station in the State.
								Walker (1904a, 328) says: "It seems to be quite generally
									distributed throughout Ontario as far north as Lake Nipissing, but is commoner in
									the southern part. It frequents trees and bushes about the edges of woods and
									thickets on both dry and marshy ground, but most often on the latter. I have also
									taken it at Agassiz, B. C., where it was common on September 9." In Michigan it
									appears to be scarce, having been definitely recorded only from Huron Co. by
									Shull. Bruner (1893a) mentions it as found in the middle and southern
									districts of Nebraska, but less common than curvicauda. The S. fasciata
									Beut. (1894a, 251) is a synonym.
								C. V. Riley (1874, 169), under the name of S.
										curvicauda, gives the following account of the egg-laying habits and call
									note of furcata; his figure 51 showing beyond doubt that the
									latter species was the one to which he referred: 
										"The female stations herself firmly by the middle and hind legs on twigs or
											leaves contiguous to the one selected to receive the eggs. This leaf is then
											grasped by the front feet and held in a vertical position, while the edge is
											slightly gnawed or pared off by the jaws to facilitate the entrance of the
											point of the ovipositor. When this is done the abdomen is curved under and
											brought foward, and the ovipositor is seized on its convex edge by the
											mandibles and maxillæ, which, with the aid of the palpi, guide the point to
											that portion of the leaf prepared to receive it. After gentle, but repeated
											efforts, the point of the instrument is finally inserted between the tissues
											of the leaf, and gradually pushed in to more than half its length. As soon as
											the cavity is formed, the egg is extruded, and passed slowly between the
											semi-transparent blades of the ovipositor. As the egg leaves the ovipositor
											the latter is gradually withdrawn, while the egg  remains in the leaf, retained in place, probably, by a viscid fluid that is
											exuded with it. As many as five of the eggs are sometimes deposited in one row
											in the same leaf, but more often they are single.
										"The shrill of the male is by no means so loud as that of the oblong-winged
											katydid, Amblycorypha oblongifolia (DeGeer), in which its
											sound is always drowned in the woods. It consists of a softer zeep, zeep,
											sometimes uttered singly, but generally thrice in succession. The call is
											occasionally responded to by a faint chirp from the females, produced by
											stretching out their wings as if for flight, and is as often heard in the day
											as at night."
									
								

								
									216a. SCUDDERIA FURCATA CUNEATA
										Morse, 1901b, 130.

									Averaging slightly larger than typical furcata, but
										otherwise differing only in the form of the fork of the decurved abdominal
										process of male, the base of which is narrower and more compressed, the cavity
										of the fork narrower, slightly deeper, with the processes each side compressed
										so that their upper edge is very narrow and subacute, not swollen and
										subcylindrical as in furcata. Females of the two forms
										absolutely inseparable. Length of body, ♂ and ♀, 18--22; of pronotum, ♂, 5--6.7,
										♀, 4.8--6.4; of tegmina, ♂ and ♀, 27--34; of hind femora, ♂, 25--29, ♀, 23--30;
										of ovipositor, 6.3--7.4 mm.
								

								Jacksonville and Miami, Fla., Sept. 7-24 (Davis) ;
									Tappahannock, Va., Sept. 9 (Fox). The Florida specimens at hand
									are typical cuneata as described by Morse, while the Virginia
									male is intermediate between cuneata and furcata, the processes of abdominal fork being more narrow and less
									swollen than in the latter, but much less compressed than in typical cuneata. In my opinion cuneata is but a variety of furcata connecting the latter with S. mexicana
									(Sauss.), a smaller and more strongly compressed species with the lobes of the
									fork more deeply emarginate beneath, which occurs in Texas, Arizona and along the
									Pacific coast; the three being probably only well marked forms of one widely
									distributed and variable species which will bear DeGeer's name.
								In Florida S. f. cuneata has been recorded from Jacksonville,
									Gainesville, Monticello, Pensacola and Miami, Aug. 11--Oct. 14. Davis (1914,
										197) says: "The apical expanded portion of the anal segment shows
									considerable variation in specimens from Florida, all referred to this
									species."
								R. & H. (1914a, 312) give the known range of cuneata as extending from Raleigh, N. Car., south to Miami, Fla., and west
									to Alabama, Morse's type having been from the latter State. "It has been found to
									be a scarce but rather generally distributed species, in the low country below the
									fall line in the region defined." The records show that it is found principally
									among the undergrowth of pine and other woods. Fox (1917) records it
									from near  Norfolk and Tappahannock, Va., the single
									male from the latter place having been taken in company "with numerous examples of
										furcata in an Andropogon thicket close to
									the margins of woods." He has also taken both it and furcata at
									Macon, Ga., and states that some of the specimens "were intermediates, possibly
									hybrids."
							

							
								III. SYMMETROPLEURA
									Brunner, 1878, 245. (Gr., "equal" + "side.")

								Slender-bodied species of medium size resembling Scudderia but
									having the fastigium between the eyes, sulcate and very narrow; eyes oblong-oval;
									disk of pronotum flat, two-thirds longer than wide, its sides just visibly
									divergent toward base, lateral carinæ obtuse, front margin truncate, hind one
									broadly rounded; lateral lobes perpendicular, longer than deep, their hind margin
									obliquely broadly rounded into the lower one; tegmina proportionally shorter than
									in Scudderia, their texture coarser, the reticulation much finer
									and more close, without the prominent cross veins of Scudderia,
									the costal field visibly narrowing from middle to apex. Male with last dorsal
									segment not prolonged into a decurved spine; supra-anal plate triangular, deflexed
									between the cerci, the latter slender, tapering, surpassing the short, broad
									subgenital plate, their tips incurved. To this genus Kirby (1906,
										446) accredits five species, two from Africa, two from South America, the
									other from Carolina.

								
									217. SYMMETROPLEURA MODESTA
										Brunner, 1878, 246. Modest Bush Cricket.

									Pale green, fading in great part to pale clay-yellow; pronotum often tinged
										with reddish-brown, especially along the lateral carinæ, spines of tibiæ and
										femora white. Tegmina four times longer than their greatest width, the anal or
										sutural margin behind the flattened dorsal field straight. Ovipositor one-third
										longer than pronotum, abruptly upcurved near base, the upturned portion feebly
										tapering, apex rounded, the margins of apical half crenulate-dentate. Other
										structural characters as given above. Length of body, ♂, 15--16, ♀, 18--20; of
										pronotum, ♂, 4--4.5, ♀, 3.8--4.5; of tegmina, ♂, 25--26, ♀, 25; of hind femora,
										♂, 17--18.5, ♀, 16.5--17.5; of ovipositor, 5 mm. Width of tegmina, ♂ and ♀, 6;
										of ovipositor, 2 mm.
								

								Dunedin, Fla., June 10; one male taken at porch light (W. S.
									B.). Bosky Dell, Ill.; one female (Field Museum). This
									seems to be a very scarce species whose range is confined to the Austral Life
									Zone. Brunner's type, a single male, was from "Carolina." Scudder (1898,
										287) records a female from North Carolina. Davis has received it from
									Mississippi and R. & H. (1907) mention the capture of a male from
									floating water hyacinth near Palatka, Fla., Aug. 18. It is also recorded by them
									(1916, 255) as having been  taken in Florida at
									Fernandina, Atlantic Beach, Crescent City and Enterprise, May 25--August 25; and
									at Raleigh, N. Car., and Billy's Island and Spring Creek, Ga., June 7--Aug. 8.
										Sherman and Brimley (1911) list it from Raleigh and Southern Pines,
									N. Car., and Brimley (1908) states that at Raleigh it has been taken
									only from mid-July to early August, both at light and on sugar, but not in
									ordinary collecting. No one of the records given mention more than two specimens
									from any one locality and most of them only one. The female in the Field Museum
									was taken by W. J. Gerhard at Bosky Dell, near Carbondale, southern Illinois, on
									Sept. 27, 1909. This extends greatly its known range to the north and west, all
									other records having been from North Carolina to central Florida.
							

							
								IV. AMBLYCORYPHA
									Stål, 1873a, 40. (Gr., "blunt" + "head.") THE
										ROUND-HEADED KATYDIDS.

								Species of medium or small size, having the fastigium rounded, strongly deflexed,
									more than twice as broad as first antennal joint; eyes elliptical or oblong-oval;
									antennæ setaceous, reaching to middle of tegmina or beyond; pronotum with disk
									flat, narrowed in front, hind margin broadly rounded, front one subtruncate,
									lateral lobes usually shorter than deep, their hind margin obliquely broadly
									rounded into the lower one; tegmina but slightly wider at middle than apex, the
									latter broadly rounded; femora slender, all armed beneath with several short
									spines. Male with stridulating organ brownish, opaque, traversed by a strong green
									cross-vein; supra-anal plate short, broad, truncate; cerci long, tapering, inbent
									and crossed, their tips acute; subgenital plate broad at base, feebly tapering,
									carinate beneath, apex usually deeply notched, the blunt process each side bearing
									a short, cylindrical style. Ovipositor broad, of medium length, curved gradually
									upward from near middle, apical half sharply and usually strongly serrate on both
									edges, the apex rounded.
								
									Fig. 157. Lateral outlines of pronotum, tegmen and exposed wing of Amblycorypha. X 2. a, of floridana; b, of carinata. Outlines of ovipositors of Amblycorypha. X
										4. c, of oblongifolia; d, floridana; e, carinata; f, uhleri. (After R. & H.)
								
								R. & H., in the latest treatise on the genus (1914b) recognize  seven species and three races or varieties from North
									America. Three species and two varieties fall within the scope of this work.

								
									KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF AMBLYCORYPHA.

									a. Tegmina oblong-elliptical, of subequal width throughout, the wings
										distinctly protruding beyond their tips (Fig. 157, a);
										metasternal lobe each side longer than broad, its hind margin narrowly rounded
										or acute; humeral sinus deep, distinct.
									b. Larger, tegmina always more than 30 mm. in length; hind femora not
										surpassing tips of tegmina, distinctly shorter in male; apex of subgenital plate
										of male with a deep V-shaped notch.
									c. Stridulating area of male tegmina larger, much exceeding that of
										pronotal disk; ovipositor more evenly and regularly curved, more strongly
										serrate (Fig. 157, c); lateral carinæ evident but rounded,
										often obsolete on apical fourth or more of pronotum. 218. OBLONGIFOLIA.
									cc. Stridulating field of male tegmina smaller, but little greater than
										that of pronotal disk; ovipositor less evenly and regularly curved, more finely
										serrate.
									d. Lateral carinæ in front of middle of pronotum rounded into the
										lateral lobes; stridulating vein of male proportionally narrower; ovipositor
										shorter, when compared with caudal femora weaker (Fig. 157, d.) 218a. FLORIDANA.
									dd. Lateral carinæ of pronotum distinct and continuous throughout;
										stridulating vein of male broader; ovipositor longer, heavier (Fig. 157, e.) 218b. CARINATA.
									bb. Smaller, tegmina not over 28 mm. in length; hind femora surpassing
										tips of tegmina in both sexes; apex of subgenital plate of male subtruncate, not
										or feebly notched. 219. UHLERI.
									aa. Tegmina ovate, distinctly broader at middle, the wings but slightly
										surpassing their tips (Fig. 160) ; metasternal lobe each side broader than long,
										its hind margin subtruncate; humeral sinus shallow or subobsolete. 220. ROTUNDIFOLIA.
								

								
									218. AMBLYCORYPHA OBLONGIFOLIA
										(DeGeer), 1773, 445. Oblong-winged Katydid.

									Size large for the genus; form robust. General color a bright pea-green, the
										shrilling organ of male brownish, with a heavy green cross-vein; abdomen and
										usually the fore and middle femora, yellowish or brownish-green; hind femora
										often brownish-yellow. Disk of pronotum with sides distinctly divergent on basal
										two-thirds, subparallel with lateral carinæ less distinct on apical third;
										humeral sinus well impressed; hind margin of lateral lobes broadly rounded.
										Tegmina elongate-elliptical, about 3.3 times as long as wide. Wings in repose
										surpassing tegmina 6 or more mm. Hind femora very slender, usually scarcely
										reaching tip of tegmina, female, distinctly shorter, male, their inner lower
										carina armed with six to 12 rather strong teeth. Length of body, ♂, 21--23, of
										♀, 22--25; of pronotum, ♂, 6--6.5, ♀, 7; of tegmina, ♂, 36--38, ♀, 35--37; of
										posterior femora, ♂ and ♀, 30--31; of ovipositor, 11.5--13 mm. Width of tegmina,
										11--12 mm. (Fig. 158.)
								

								

								The oblong-winged katydid is a frequent insect throughout Indiana, becoming
									mature in the southern part about July 20, and in the northern counties probably a
									fortnight later. It occurs for the most part on shrubbery and flowers of
									golden-rod and other Composite along fence rows and edges of thickets and woods,
									especially in damp localities; and when flushed flies with a kind of whirring
									noise, alighting on fence or the lower branch of tree. I have often located the
									male by its note, which to me is a creaking squawk--like the noise made by drawing
									a fine-toothed comb over a taut string. It is usually but once repeated, though
									sometimes three times. On several occasions it has been made after the insect was
									in my fingers.
								
									Fig. 158. Female. Natural size. (After Lugger.)
								
								A number of pink specimens have been taken from low meadows near Bass Lake,
									Starke County. The causes which produce this curious "sport," by which a
									grass-green is changed to a delicate pink, are, as yet, unknown. Scudder has said
									that "one thinks at once of autumn leaves and their change from green to red and
									notices that these pink katydids all occur in the autumn." In Indiana the pink
									specimens have been taken in early August, long before frost and before any
									noticeable change in the surrounding vegetation.
								Several of the species of Amblycorypha are known to occur
									occasionally in the pink form, which appear much more frequent in this genus than
									in any other of the Tettigoniidæ. Wheeler (1907), Knab
										(1907), Hancock (1916) and other authors have published
									interesting papers on the subject of pink katydids. Hancock succeeded in rearing a
									family of a cross between a pink female and a green male of oblongifolia. He found that the eggs of this species are laid in the
									ground and require two to three years to hatch. Of the 13 young, nine were pink
									and four green, the color remaining practically the same throughout their lives.
									He concludes, as did Wheeler, that the pink color, as well as the green, is
									hereditary, the pinkness therefore being congenital or germinal in character and
									not the result of conditions of environment.
								The known range of typical oblongifolia is from New England and
									Montreal west to southwestern Ontario, Michigan, Minnesota  and Colorado, and south and southwest to Maryland, North Carolina,
									Alabama, Louisiana and Texas. In the southern coastwise states it is replaced by
									the nominal race or variety, A. o. floridana R. & H. In
									Ontario Walker (1904a, 329) states that it is rare about Toronto, but
									common from Hamilton westward to the St. Clair River, occurring for the most part
									on shrubs and tall weeds. The note of the male, he says, "is very harsh and
									scraping in character and is usually of about three-fifths of a second's duration.
									At a little distance it sounds something like 'kizizik.' I have
									heard it at night and in the afternoon while the sun was still shining."
								Lugger (1898, 223) states that both A.
										oblongifolia and rotundifolia occur abundantly in
									Minnesota, frequenting bushes and tall weeds in low places. Both appear to be
									scarce in Michigan, Hubbell (Ms.) listing oblongifolia only from
									Wayne, Ingham and Jackson counties, and rotundifolia from
									Washtenaw Co. About Moline, Ill., McNeill (1891) found oblongifolia more common in the vicinity of houses than the species of Scudderia, and states that its note is "a quick shuffling sound
									which resembles 'katy' or 'katydid,' very slightly. It sometimes flies in the
									evening, but much more rarely than does S. curvicauda."
								Hancock (1916) has given an account of the egg-laying habits of oblongifolia as follows: 
										"When ready to oviposit the female comes down to the ground from the
											vegetation which she frequents. She then searches about on the ground, often
											among the dead leaves, to find a suitable place to deposit her eggs. She does
											this very deliberately and slowly, feeling her way with her palpi, often
											nibbling the surface 'as if testing a suitable place. At times she appears to
											be quite exacting in her choice of location, one of these requisites being a
											certain amount of dampness of soil, as well as certain surface conditions.
											When she finds a suitable spot, she curves her abdomen, which is now distended
											with eggs, forward underneath her body and at the same time seizes the end of
											the large ovipositor in her mandibles. In this way she directs its point to
											the desired place in the ground. Then she forces or drills a hole in the earth
											for the reception of each egg or cluster of eggs. Sometimes they are laid at
											such a shallow depth in the ground that the rains splash away the dirt
											covering, fully exposing them to the air."
									
								

								Bruner (1891, 73) described Amblycorypha scudderæ
									from Nebraska, stating that it differs from oblongifolia by its
									smaller size, more evenly rounded or arcuate edges of tegmina, comparatively
									shorter hind legs and more strongly serrated point of ovipositor. R. &
										H. (1914b, 320) have made scudderæ a synonym of oblongifolia, stating that "the characters mentioned by Bruner are
									worthless," though they use two of them, viz., the arcuate edge  of tegmina and degree of serration of ovipositor, in
									their key in separating oblongifolia from their floridana and carinata.

								
									218a. AMBLYCORYPHA OBLONGIFOLIA FLORIDANA
										Rehn & Hebard, 1905, 42.

									A form or race of oblongifolia differing only by the
										characters given in the key, which are taken from the key of R. & H.
											(1914b, 319), and by having the disk of pronotum slightly longer, its
										sides less divergent backward in the female. Length of body, ♂, 25--25.8, ♀,
										21--28.3; of pronotum, ♂, 6.6, ♀, 7--7.4; of tegmina, ♂, 34.6--35.8, ♀,
										32--36.8; of hind femora, ♂, 28.7--30.4, ♀, 28.5--32.6; of ovipositor, 11--12.2
										mm. (Fig. 159.)
								

								
									Fig. 159. Female type. Natural size. (After R. & H.)
								

								The original description of this form was prefaced thus: "Allied to A. oblongifolia but differing in the straighter ovipositor and less
									angulate angles of disk of pronotum." Later (1907, 301) R. & H. say: "The less
									curved form and rather smaller size of the ovipositor will serve to separate the
									female of floridana from that of oblongifolia,
									while in the male the tympanum is distinctly narrower, both actually and
									proportionally, than in oblongifolia. The lateral angles of the
									disk of the pronotum are as a rule by no means as sharply rectangulate as in oblongifolia and the disk is broader caudad in the latter species.
									From the evidence in hand it appears that floridana represents
									the southern extreme of oblongifolia, specimens from
									Thomasville, Ga., being as near floridana as oblongifolia." Still later (1914b, 322) they state that the Thomasville
									specimens connect "true floridana with a northern sub-species
										(S. f. carinata) of the same stock, which in its turn is
									perfectly distinct from oblongifolia."
								All of the differences which they give, both in descriptions and keys, separating
									the three forms, are comparative only, and readily come within the limits of
									variation of a single species over a wide extent of territory. The lateral carinæ
									of northern and eastern oblongifolia are always rounded on the
									prozona, and vary greatly in continuity, in the majority of Indiana specimens
									being wanting on the apical third or fourth of pronotum, where the disk is rounded
									directly into the sides. The disk of pronotum is also variable in length and
									divergence and the ovipositor in length and degree of curvature. While extremes of
									the three forms are obviously different, I regard both floridana
									and carinata as varieties  of oblongifolia, as no permanent fixed characters separating them
									have as yet been pointed out.
								About Dunedin, Fla., nymphs of S. o. floridana are frequent
									from February 1 to April 15, but the adults have been taken only in October. It
									occurs in the tall grasses about the margins of brackish marshes and on weeds in
									low wet places in pine woods. During the summer and autumn months this appears to
									be a common katydid throughout Florida, having been recorded from numerous
									localities by other collectors. At Homestead it was found by R. & H.
										(1914c, 399) "on the prairie-like everglades, where they were scarce in
									the day time, but plentiful at night, perched on the grasses, stridulating
									fearlessly. Their note is an indescribable buzz and click."
								The range of this southern form is given by R. & H. (1914b, 322)
									as "extending from Big Pine Key and Detroit, south Florida, as far north typically
									as Jacksonville, Fernandina and Atlantic Beach, westward as far as eastern Texas,
									intergrading in the Atlantic Coast region, at least, into the northern subspecies
										(carinata) over an extensive area covering from southern
									Georgia to eastern South Carolina."

								
									218b. AMBLYCORYPHA OBLONGIFOLIA CARINATA65
										Rehn & Hebard, 1914b, 323.

									"Differing from floridana floridana in the lateral margins
										of the pronotal disk being more angulate and carinate almost or quite
										continuously; in the stridulating field of the male tegmina being proportionally
										broader, in the sutural margin of the tegmina distad of the anal field being
										more arcuate and in having a longer and heavier ovipositor. Length of body, ♂,
										20.8--24, ♀, 21--27.2; of pronotum, ♂, 6.3--7, ♀, 6.9--7.4; of tegmina, ♂,
										33--35.5, ♀, 30--35.5; of hind femora, ♂, 29--32, ♀, 26.6--32.6; of ovipositor,
										12.3--14.5 mm." (R. & H.)
								

								Charlottesville, Va., July 17 (Fox) ; Sherborn, Mass. (Morse). It will be noted that the width of the stridulating field
									of tegmina is said by R. & H. to be broader than in floridana, whereas the leading character given in their key to separate
										floridana from typical oblongifolia is the
									narrower stridulating field of the former. The measurements are also in great part
									intermediate between typical oblongifolia and floridana. They record numerous intergrading forms between floridana and carinata, but I regard the latter as only
									an intermediate form, connecting oblongifolia and its southern
									race, floridana and therefore scarcely worthy of a special name.
									As noted above the extremes are sufficiently 65This form should probably bear the
										varietal name saussurei Bruner, as he first mentioned it
										(1886, 196) as follows: "A sixth species (of Amblycorypha)
										occurs along the Atlantic coast from Maryland southward. It is nearly of the
										same size as oblongifolia but differs from it in having the
										dorsum of pronotum very smooth and also in several other important features. It
										might therefore be called A. saussurei after M. Henri de
										Saussure." As R. & H. claim that this description, as such, is
										unrecognizable, I have retained their name.
									 distinct, but the means merge, so as to be
									practically indistinguishable unless one wishes to juggle with words and
									names.
								The range of typical carinata is given by R. & H. as
									extending from southern Massachusetts west to New Jersey and Pennsylvania, and
									south over southeastern Virginia to eastern North Carolina and north-central
									Georgia, while Davis has it from Agricultural College and Lucedale, Miss.
										Fox (1917) states that in Virginia carinata
									inhabits similar situations as does oblongifolia, but is more
									frequent in tidewater areas.

								
									219. AMBLYCORYPHA UHLERI
										Stål, 1876, 57. Uhler's Katydid.

									Size small for the genus. Above gress-green fading to pale greenish-yellow,
										shrilling organ of male brown or blackish, the cross-vein green; beneath
										greenish-yellow fading to dull clay-yellow. Antennæ pale reddish-brown,
										surpassing the tips of tegmina. Pronotum strongly narrowed in front, lateral
										carinæ distinct on basal two-thirds, rounded into lateral lobes in front of
										middle; hind margin broadly rounded, lateral lobes deeper than long, their hind
										margin broadly rounded. Tegmina oblong-elliptical, not reaching tips of hind
										femora. Wings protruding beyond tegmina 3--5 mm. Metasternal lobe each side
										longer than broad, its hind margin rounded. Male with cerci strongly tapering,
										thickly clothed with bristling hairs; tegmina longer and narrower than in
										female. Ovipositor broad, of equal width throughout, slightly longer than
										pronotum, not strongly curved, the apical half rather strongly serrate on both
										margins (Fig. 157, f.) Length of body, ♂, 14--15, ♀, 16--17.5;
										of pronotum, ♂, 4.8--6, ♀, 5.5--7; of tegmina, ♂, 23--27, ♀, 20--28; of hind
										femora, ♂, 21--27, ♀, 22.5--28; of ovipositor, 7.5--10. Width of tegmina, ♂,
										7--9, ♀, 6--8.5 mm.
								

								This, our smallest species of the genus, is much less common in Indiana than
									either oblongifolia or rotundifolia, not
									having been taken north of Vigo Co., where it frequents the tall sedges and
									willows bordering the large ponds in the Wabash River bottoms. In southern Indiana
									it was once found plentiful, September 3--4, near Wyandotte Cave, Crawford Co.,
									where a number were secured on grass and herbs. In Posey, Warrick and Harrison
									counties, single specimens have been taken by sweeping willows in late September.
									The young sometimes feed upon the leaves of the black and scarlet oaks, Quercus velutina Lam., and Q. coccinea Wang, and
									the perfect insect is often found on or beneath these trees.
								In Florida A. uhleri is also scarce, occurring for the most
									part on bushes and other undergrowth in open pine woods. A single male, taken at
									light at Dunedin, Oct. 14, is at hand, and is larger, with longer tegmina than any
									of those from Indiana. It probably occurs throughout the State, having been
									recorded in small numbers  from Jacksonville to Ft.
									Barrancas south to Homestead; adults, July 7--August 23, nymphs March 6.
								The known range of A. uhleri is mainly southern, extending from
									New Jersey west and north to central Indiana and Minnesota, and south and west to
									southern Florida, eastern Oklahoma and central Texas. It is not recorded from
									Canada or Michigan, and only from a single specimen without definite locality,
									from Minnesota. In habitat it appears to be largely hygrophilous, most of the
									records mentioning it as occurring on weeds or bushes in or near low, damp woods
									from tidewater to 2,600 feet above. In Virginia Fox (1917) says it is
									"apparently the most abundant representative of the genus in the Piedmont and
									tidewater sections, occurring chiefly in open country on the trees, bushes, weeds
									and tall grasses of fields, pastures and roadsides."
								Of the call note of uhleri
									Allard (1912) says: "It consists of a rapid silken shuffling sound,
										sh-sh-sh-sh, occasionally repeated. At other times the notes
									become brief, staccato lisps, i-tsip-i-tsip-i-tsip-i-tsip,
									followed by the usual sh-sh-sh-sh. Abrupt modifications of this
									sort nearly always get a similar response from the other individuals."

								
									220. AMBLYCORYPHA ROTUNDIFOLIA
										(Scudder), 1862, 445 Round-winged Katydid.

									Size medium for the genus. Color essentially the same as that of oblongifolia. Disk of pronotum with sides subparallel, female,
										feebly diverging behind, male; lateral carinæ evident but rounded on basal
										two-thirds; humeral sinus very shallow; hind margin of lateral lobes more
										oblique and less broadly rounded than in oblongifolia. Tegmina
										ovate, proportionally much broader, the wings but slightly protruding from
										beneath their tips. Hind femora reaching tips of tegmina in male, slightly
										longer, female, armed on the lower, inner carina with four or five minute teeth.
										Ovipositor more distinctly curved and more strongly serrate than in either oblongifolia or uhleri. Length of body, ♂ and
										♀, 19--20; of pronotum, ♂, 5--6, ♀, 5.8--6.4; of tegmina, ♂ and ♀, 24--27; of
										hind femora, ♂, 22--25, ♀, 24--27; of ovipositor, 9--11 mm. Width of tegmina,
										8.5--9.5 mm. (Fig. 160.)
								
								
									Fig. 160. a, Female. Natural size. b,
										Enlarged end of ovipositor. (After Riley.)
								

								The round-winged katydid occurs frequently throughout Indiana, though more
									abundant in the southern half of the State. It is more of a terrestrial species
									than oblongifolia, being often 
									seen on the ground, or on the clumps of tall grass and weeds, which grow in damp
									ravines, while its flight is comparatively noiseless and less prolonged. In
									southern Indiana the males become mature about the fifth of July, the females a
									week later.
								Pink individuals of rotundifolia have been recorded from
									Pennsylvania and New Jersey, but they appear to be much more scarce than those of
										oblongifolia.
								The known range of typical A. rotundifolia extends from the
									White Mountain region of New England west to Michigan and Minnesota, and south and
									west to South Carolina, northern Georgia and western Arkansas. In western North
									Carolina, southern Georgia and Alabama it is said by R. & H. (1914b,
										336) to have shorter wings, less evident humeral sinus and a broader disk
									of pronotum, thus showing an intermediate form between typical rotundifolia and the western race A. r. parvipennis
									Scudder. R. & H. have also reduced A. iselyi Caud.,
									described from Kansas and known from Iowa and Missouri, to a race or variety of
										rotundifolia. It is not recorded from Canada, though it should
									occur along the southern border. Lugger mentions it as common in Minnesota, and
										Bruner (1893a, 29) as a "not uncommon species" in the eastern part
									of Nebraska. In Virginia Fox says it is "taken in shrubbery and undergrowth in or
									close to open deciduous woods and apparently confined to the mountain sections of
									the State."
								Of the note of rotundifolia, Scudder (1893, 68)
									says: "This insect stridulates both by day and by night, and without variation
									(Fig. 155, c). The song consists of from two to four
									notes--sounding like chic-a-chee--repeated rapidly so as to be
									almost confounded, and when three requiring just one-third of a second; the song
									is repeated at will, generally once in about five seconds, for an indefinite
									length of time."
								Allard (1911) says that near Oxford, Mass., in September, A. rotundifolia "occurs everywhere in the grass, weeds and
									shrubbery of fields and pastures. Its notes may be heard at all times during the
									day as well as during warm nights. They are soft, lisping, continuing
									indefinitely, and may be expressed thus: 'Tsip-i-tsip-i-tsip-i-tsip-i-tsip.' "
							

							
								V. MICROCENTRUM
									Scudder, 1862, 446. (Gr., "small" + "point.")

								Species of medium or large size, having the occiput convex, fastigium obtuse,
									deflexed, more or less sulcate; eyes subglobose, prominent; disk of pronotum flat,
									sides subparallel, lateral carinæ distinct, hind margin broadly rounded; humeral
									sinus deeply impressed; lateral lobes perpendicular, much deeper than long, the
										 hind margin broadly rounded into the lower one;
									tegmina coriaceous, ovate lanceolate, broadest at middle, both costal and sutural
									margins tapering to the much narrower but rounded apex, the overlapping dorsal
									field forming a right angle with the median area; wings distinctly projecting
									beyond the tegmina their tips acuminate; all the femora armed beneath with several
									small spines; hind ones short and very slender; meso- and metasternal lobes
									elongate, their tips acute or narrowly rounded. Males with supra-anal plate
									oblong-triangular, deflexed between the cerci, the latter long, slender,
									subcylindrical, their tips usually incurved and mucronate; subgenital plate
									composed of two separate lobes, uniting beyond the middle, then tricarinate
									beneath, the terminal processes bearing rather long, cylindrical styles. Female
									with ovipositor very short, bent strongly upward, usually finely crenulate, with
									apex obtuse; subgenital plate triangular, compressed, obtuse.
								This is an American genus whose species are mostly tropical, Kirby (1906,
										480) including 26 under the name Orophus Serv. which he
									wrongly used for Microcentrum. Of these but two are known from
									the United States, both occurring east of the Mississippi.

								
									KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF MICROCENTRUM.

									a. Front margin of pronotum sinuate, and with a more or less distinct
										median tooth; cerci of male with the tips incurved and mucronate; ovipositor
										with apex subtruncate or very broadly rounded; general color dark grass-green.
											221. RHOMBIFOLIUM.
									aa. Front margin of pronotum squarely truncate; cerci of male with
										apical third thickened, the tip blunt, feebly or not at all incurved; ovipositor
										with apex attenuate, narrowly rounded; general color pale green, the head and
										under surface tinged with yellow. 222. RETINERVE.
								

								
									221. MICROCENTRUM RHOMBIFOLIUM
										(Saussure), 1859, 204. Larger Angular-winged Katydid.

									Size large both for the family and the genus, the sexes subequal. Dark
										grass-green, the face, under surface, fore and middle legs and often the front
										half of pronotum greenish-yellow often fading to dull clay-yellow. Fastigium
										faintly sulcate or, in the male, with a shallow median pit. Disk of pronotum
										short, subquadrate, the median tooth of front margin variable in size and form,
										always small, often vague; hind margin broadly rounded. Tegmina
										ovate-lanceolate, surpassing the tips of hind femora by two-fifths their length.
										Male with stridulating area elongate-triangular, opaque, coarsely punctate;
										subgenital plate with outer carinæ subparallel, apex with a deep rounded notch.
										Other structural characters as given in key and under generic heading. Length of
										body, ♂, 25--28, ♀, 28--30; of pronotum, ♂ and ♀, 6--7; of tegmina, ♂, 42--45,
										♀, 43--47;  of hind femora, ♂, 22.5--24; ♀,
										23--25; of ovipositor, 4.5--5 mm. Greatest width of tegmina, 13--14 mm. (Fig.
										161.)
								

								This is the M. laurifolium of my previous work (1903, 354) and
									of most American authors up to 1906, Kirby having then shown that the name laurifolium rightfully belongs to a tropiical species of Stilpnochlora. M. rhombifolium is the largest of our northern
									katydids and is frequent throughout the southern half of Indiana, but has not been
									noted north of Lafayette, where Fox (1915) says it "appears to be
									common since its notes were heard continuously throughout late July and August."
									In the country it is most commonly called "the katydid," and the note of the
									broad-winged katydid, Pterophylla camellifolia (Fab.) is usually
									attributed to it, but its true note may be represented "by the syllable 'tic,'
									repeated from eight to 20 times at the rate of about four to the second." However,
										M. rhombifolium is probably less common in Indiana than the
									broad-winged katydid, with which it is confused. As it frequents low bushes and
									other shrubbery it is more often seen, the true katydid being commonly found in
									the taller trees. It is often attracted to light and in Indianapolis numerous
									examples have been found on porches and in the gutters beneath electric lights. In
									movement M. rhombifolium is very sluggish, seldom taking to
									flight when approached and readily picked up by the fingers. It probably occurs in
									small numbers in all parts of the State.
								
									Fig. 161. Male. Natural size. (After Riley.)
								
								About Dunedin, Fla., adults of rhombifolium have been taken
									from November to April, but are very scarce. The nymphs in all stages are,
									however, frequent during the winter and often taken by sweeping. It occurs
									throughout Florida and on the southern keys, adults being recorded from numerous
									localities and in nearly every month of the year. At Miami it was noted by
										Hebard (1915b) to be "not uncommon in early March about the town on
									trees and shrubbery, as could be determined on warm evenings by the frequently
									heard stridulations. On nights when the temperature fell at dusk below 65° all
									Orthopteron stridulations ceased."
								The known range of rhombifolium extends from Staten and Long
									Islands, N. Y., north and west to Michigan, Minnesota and  eastern Nebraska, and south and west to southern Florida, Oklahoma,
									southwestern Texas, Arizona and Claremont, California. From the west and northwest
									the published records are few for so widely a distributed species and are mostly
									under the name M. laurifolium (Linn.). Scudder (1862,
										447) gave Massachusetts as one of the localities of his M.
										affiliatum, a synonym of rhombifolium, and S. I.
										Smith (1873, 357) mentions it from Connecticut, but no definite
									localities were given and no other New England records can be found. It is not
									mentioned in either of the Iowa lists, nor is a definite locality recorded from
									Michigan. Garman says it is "common everywhere in Kentucky on black locust and
									other trees." Lugger records it only from Winona, Minn., and Bruner, as occurring
									only in eastern Nebraska south of the Platte River. From New Jersey south and
									southwest the records are more numerous, especially those from Georgia and
									Florida. J. Smith (1910, 187) states that it occurs throughout New
									Jersey, and R. & H. (1916, 256) give numerous records between
									there and central Georgia, as do they and other authors from Georgia, southwest to
									California. At Claremont in the latter State Baker (1905, 78) found
									it common among the orange trees, and one of his specimens is at hand.
								The eggs of M. laurifolium are usually glued in double rows on
									the sides of slender twigs, which have been previously roughened with the jaws and
									otherwise prepared for a place of deposit. The two rows are contiguous and the
									eggs of one alternate with those of the other. Those of the same row overlap about
									one-fourth their length. They are of a grayish brown color, long oval in shape,
									very flat, and measure 5.5x3 mm. They are usually deposited in September, hatch
									the following May, and the young, in central Indiana, reach maturity during the
									first half of August. These eggs have, on a number of occasions, been brought to
									me by persons who found them on their fruit trees, and thought they were the San
									Jose scale or some other injurious scale insect.
								
									Fig. 162. Eggs of the Angular-winged Katydid. (After Riley.)
								
								Of the habits of this species Davis (1887, 56), under the name M. retinerve, says: "It often lays its eggs on the honey suckle
									and I once observed a female on the 16th of September, ovipositing on a low tree
									by the roadside, gradually biting the bark into a ridge along which the eggs were
									laid tile fashion. The male produces  two somewhat
									different songs, or varies the same song in time or extent of utterance, so that
									unless the same individual is listened to for some time, the notes might be
									attributed to different species."
								Riley (1874, 155), as his figures show, confused M.
										rhombifolium also with M. retinerve (Burm.) and under the
									latter name gave a full account of the habits of rhombifolium
									from which I quote as follows: 
										"The females commence to oviposit early in September, and continue to lay at
											intervals until the first severe frost. The eggs are occasionally deposited
											during the day, but the operation usually takes place at night. The number of
											eggs laid at one time varies from two to 30, the first batches containing more
											than those deposited later in the season. Each female produces from 150 to
											200, or perhaps more, and I have known them to lay on the edge of a leaf, or
											of a piano-cover, or along a piece of cord.
										"These eggs are rather flat when laid, but become more swollen, so that they
											have a narrower look as they approach the hatching period in spring. During
											the early part of May, the embryo larva--which lies straight in its egg,
											completely filling it, with the legs bent up as in a pupa, and the long
											antennæ curling around them--attains its full development, and after hours of
											tedious contracting and expanding movements, manages to burst the egg open at
											its top or exposed end, along the narrow edge, and generally about half way
											down. Through this opening young Katy slowly emerges, undergoing a moult
											during the process, and leaving its first skin, in a crumpled white mass,
											attached to the empty bivalvular egg shell. Including hind legs and antennæ it
											measures at this time, rather more than an inch in length, the body alone
											being one-eighth of an inch long; and in contemplating it, one can not but
											wonder how the long, stiff legs and great length of antennæ, together with the
											plump body, could so recently have been compressed into the comparatively
											small shell to which we see it clinging.
										"In from ten to twenty minutes after hatching, these little beings essay
											their first leaps, and soon begin to eat with avidity. They feed with almost
											equal relish upon a great variety of foliage, but I have found that when
											reared upon very succulent leaves, such as lettuce, cabbage, purslain and the
											like, they are less hardy, and do not attain so great an age as when nourished
											upon more ligneous food, as the leaves of oak, apple or cherry.
										"The first notes of this katydid are heard about the middle of July, and the
											species is in full song by the first of August. The wing covers are partially
											opened by a sudden jerk, and the notes produced by the gradual closing of the
											same. The song consists of a series of from 25 to 30 raspings, as of a stiff
											quill drawn across a coarse file. There are about five of these raspings or
											trills per second, all alike, and with equal intervals, except the last two or
											three, which, with the closing of the wing covers, run into each other. The
											whole strongly recalls the slow turning of a child's wooden rattle, ending
											with a sudden jerk of the same; and this prolonged rattling, which is peculiar
											to the male, is invariably and instantly answered by a single sharp 'chirp' or
											'tschick' from one or more  females, who produce
											the sound by a sudden upward jerk of the wings.
										"Both sexes are for the most part silent during the day, but during the
											period of their greatest activity their stridulations are never for an hour
											remitted, from the time the great setting sun hides behind the purple curtains
											of the west till he begins to shed his scarlet rays in the east--the species
											being so numerous that the sound as it comes from the woods is one continuous
											rattling, not unlike the croaking of frogs, but set to a higher key."
									
								

								
									222. MICROCENTRUM RETINERVE
										(Burmeister), 1838, 692. Smaller Angular-winged Katydid.

									Size medium for the genus, the sexes subequal. Smaller than rhombifolium which it very closely resembles. Fastigium as there but
										slightly narrower, more distinctly sulcate. Pronotum with front margin truncate,
										not toothed; humeral sinus more narow. Tegmina proportionally shorter, less
										strongly tapering, their tips more broadly rounded, surpassing hind femora
										one-third their length. Front and middle femora with only one or two very minute
										spines beneath. Male with stridulating field narrow, the cross-vein usually pale
										brown; cerci longer than in rhombifolium, less incurved, their
										apical third distinctly swollen; subgenital plate with outer carinæ converging,
										both apex and apical notch distinctly narrower than in rhombifolium. Other differences as given in key. Length of body, ♂,
										20--22, ♀, 24-26; of pronotum, ♂, 5--5.5, ♀, 5.5--6.5; of tegmina, ♂, 36--38, ♀,
										38--41; of hind femora, ♂ and ♂, 18--20; of ovipositor, 5.5--6.5 mm. Width of
										tegmina, 12--13 mm.
								

								Martin Co., Ind., Aug. 20, one male; Vigo Co., Ind., Sept. 26, one female;
									Plummer's Island, Md., Sept. 10 (W. S. B.). Probably occurs
									throughout the Austral life zone of the southern third of Indiana. Recorded from
									Florida only by Scudder (1877a, 83), who states that "a male, a
									female and two pupæ were taken at Ft. Reed between April 24 and May 2."
								The known range of retinerve is more southern than that of rhombifolium, extending from New Jersey west through southern
									Indiana, Kentucky and Clarksville, Tenn., to Kansas and Nebraska, and south and
									southwest to central Georgia, Oklahoma, Texas, New Mexico, Arizona and, if
									Brunner's record (1878, 340) can be relied upon, to Orizaba, Mexico, and
									Guatemala. It appears to be a common form on Plummer's Island, Md., as I took
									three males there in a few hours' collecting on Sept. 10. They were found on the
									ground or the branches of low shrubs. Bruner has recorded it as not common but
									more widely distributed in eastern Nebraska than rhombifolium.
									From the records the males seem to far outnumber the opposite sex.
							

							
								VI. STILPNOCHLORA
									Stål, 1873a, 40. (Gr., "glisten" + "green.")

								Species of very large size, having the fastigium horizontal, sulcate, slightly
									wider than first antennal joint, its apex obtuse; eyes  small, subglobose; antennæ very slender, reaching beyond middle of
									tegmina; disk of pronotum slightly concave, narrowed in front; lateral carinæ
									distinct, obtuse in front, higher, sharper and crenate on basal third; front
									margin feebly sinuate, hind one very broadly rounded or subtruncate; humeral sinus
									narrow, deep; lateral lobes much deeper than long, their lower margin broadly
									rounded into both the hind and front ones; tegmina subcorneous, broadly
									lanceolate, their anal fields flat, forming a right angle with the median one,
									dorsal margin behind the anal field slightly sinuous and at apical fourth abruptly
									decurved to the narrowly rounded apex; lower margin broadly curved from base to
									middle, thence nearly straight to apex (Fig. 163, a) ; wings
									with folded tips acuminate, distinctly longer than tegmina; front and middle
									femora terete, unarmed, hind ones armed beneath with a number of small distant
									spines; lobes of knees bispinose; hind tibiæ four-sided, the upper, inner and
									outer sides rather wide, flat, feebly concave, the lower one narrow, the four
									margins raised and armed with numerous teeth; meso- and metasterna with large
									triangular lobes. Male with supra-anal plate triangular, sulcate; cerci excavated
									above, abruptly incurved; subgenital plate as in Microcentrum.
									Ovipositor very small, narrow, gradually curved upward, its apex obtusely
									pointed.
								This American genus of giant katydids has been recently (1917) reviewed by Rehn,
									who recognized eight species as belonging to the faunas of South and central
									America and the West Indies, one of which is known to extend into Florida as far
									north as Gainesville.

								
									223. STILPNOCHLORA COULONIANA
										(Saussure), 1861, 128. Giant Katydid.

									Size very large. Above green; pronotum with rounded front portion of lateral
										carinæ yellow, the sharp crenulate portion and hind margin narrowly edged with
										black; face, fore and middle femora and under surface greenish-yellow, the face
										often with a short, median reddish-brown stripe. Basal half of sharp margins of
										flat anal field of tegmina crenulate and often edged with black. Structural
										characters as given under the genus heading. Length of body, ♂, 30--32, ♀,
										35--40; of pronotum, ♂, 8--9, ♀, 11--12; of tegmina, ♂, 55--60, ♀, 63--68; of
										hind femora, ♂, 29--34, ♀, 34--39; of ovipositor, 6--7 mm. Greatest width of
										pronotum, 9--11, of tegmina, 20--25 mm.
								

								Eustis, Fla., April 6, one female; Cape Sable, Fla., Feb. 26, one female (W. S. B.). The Eustis specimen was taken with the fingers as it
									was resting on a leaf along the border of a cultivated field, while the Cape Sable
									one was beaten from the foliage of a saffron-plum, Bumelia
										angustifolia Nutt., growing along the edge of a salt marsh hammock. The
									other Florida localities recorded  are Tortugas
									Islands, Key West, Chokoloskee, Miami, Lake Worth, Ft. Myers, Sanford and
									Gainesville. At Key West Hebard took a female containing 124 fully developed and
									14 partially developed eggs from a bush of dahoon holly, Ilex
										cassine L., on March 16. Davis captured a male at electric light in Ft.
									Myers on March 31, and saw several others. At Miami Hebard found a young female on
									March 5, and Davis a male and two nymphs on Sept. 22, all in Brickell's Hammock.
									At Gainesville a male and female were taken Sept. 26--Oct. 2, and at Sanford a
									female on Nov. 28. These are the only published Florida records, and for so large
									an insect they are very few. They indicate that the species must as yet be very
									scarce in the State, and passes the winter in the adult stage. Rehn (1917,
										111) states that S. couloniana is known only from Cuba,
									the Isle of Pines and Florida. Saussure's type was from Cuba, and it is said to
									occur over the whole Island.

								
									Fig. 163. a, Lateral outline of tegmen of Stilpnochlora
											couloniana, natural size. Sridalating field of left tegmen of male; b, of
											S. marginella; c, of S. couloniana; d, of
											S. quadrata. (After Rehn.)
								


								This, the largest Tettigoniid known from the eastern United States, was first
									recorded and described from this country by Scudder (1862, 447) under
									the name of Micerocentrum thoracicum, his specimen being a
									female from the Tortugas Islands. Scudder's name was placed by Brunner
										(1878, 359) as a synonym of Stilpnochlora marginella
									(Serv.), and the species has been recorded as such a number of times from Florida
									and is listed under that name by Scudder and Kirby in their catalogues. Rehn
										(1917, 111) has separated our insect from S. marginella
									and placed it under Saussure's S. couloniana, a name considered
									by Brunner, Scudder and Kirby as a synonym of S. marginella.
									Rehn gives his reasons for his action thus: "The chief feature which distinguishes
									the species is the form of the stridulating field of the male tegmina. This is
									least extensive, with its free margin almost regularly arcuate and hardly
									angulate, and having a short stridulating vein in marginella; in
										couloniana the field is broader, with a rounded obtuse
									angulation at the extremity of the vein, which is somewhat heavier and
									longer."
								Two females in my collection from Mexico, one from Jalapa, the other from
									Orizaba, differ from the Florida specimens only  in
									their slightly larger size and more divergent lateral carinæ of pronotum. These
									are probably what Rehn considers S. quadrata
									Scudder (1869c, 331), as that is the only species he mentions as
									inhabiting Mexico. This species he also separates from marginella and couloniana only "by the greater breadth
									of the male tegminal field, with margin more obtuse-angled and the more elongate
									stridulating vein," and states that Florida females of couloniana "are almost indistinguishable from Mexican individuals," i. e.,
									females of what he considers quadrata.
								An examination of a series of males of the three forms, marginella,
										couloniana and quadrata, in the Philadelphia collections,
									shows that the free margin of the left tegmen (m, Fig. 163, b,
									c) is slightly more obtusely rounded in quadrata than in couloniana, and slightly less so in marginella
									than in couloniana. A large series would probably show that quadrate is a synonym of couloniana and that the
									latter is at the most only a race or form of marginella.
							

							
								VII. TURPILIA
									Stål, 1874, 16.

								This genus is closely allied to Microcentrum, its species
									differing mainly by their smaller size and the characters given in the generic
									key. They have the fastigium much narrower, but slightly decurved; disk of
									pronotum proportionally longer and narrower, much more strongly punctate; tegmina
									relatively more lanceolate and more densely reticulate; lobes of meso- and
									metasterna longer, triangular, their tips acute.

								
									224. TURPILIA ROSTRATUM
										(Rehn & Hebard), 1905, 43. Narrow-beaked Katydid.

									Size medium, the sexes subequal. Bright green, more or less suffused with
										yellow; in dried specimens the apical half or more of tegmina and protruding
										tips of wings usually alone green, the remainder dull brownish-yellow. Fastigium
										as described in key, distinctly sulcate, its apex rounded. Disk of pronotum with
										lateral carinæ evident but rounded, more distinct on basal half, front margin
										broadly and shallowly concave, hind one strongly rounded; humeral sinus rather
										broad and shallow. Tegmina ovate-lanceolate, apex narrowly rounded, surpassing
										tips of hind femora about one-third their length. Wings protruding 4--5 mm.
										beyond the tegmina. All the femora feebly spinulose beneath. Male cerci very
										long, tapering, nearly straight, surpassing the subgenital plate, their tips
										armed with a pair of minute apical teeth, and a third ventral subapical one;
										subgenital plate broad, tapering, its lateral carinæ faint, apex subtruncate,
										with a minute median rounded notch; styles short, feebly tapering. Ovipositor
										with both ventral and dorsal margins of apical half finely crenulate, the apex
										broad, bluntly rounded. Length of body, ♂, 20--21, ♀, 25--26; of pronotum, ♂,
										5.3, ♀, 5--5.7; of tegmina, ♂, 29--32, ♀,  31--33;
										of hind femora, ♂ and ♀, 15.5--16.5; of ovipositor, 5.5 mm. Greatest width of
										tegmina, 7.5--8 mm. (Fig. 164.)
								

								Punta Gorda, Fla., Nov. 15--17 (Davis). Known only from the
									southern third of Florida and the adjacent keys, March-November. R. & H.
										(1914c, 400) state that at Key West in July it was taken only at night on
									buttonwood, Conocarpus erecta
									
										Fig. 164. Female type. Natural size. (After R. & H.)
									 L. All the specimens were stalked with flash lamp, by the aid of their
									song which was low and rasping, much like zrrp-zrrp-zrrp. At
									Punta Gorda Davis found it not uncommon in November in a clump of mangroves.
							

							
								VIII. PHRIXA
									Stål, 1874, 16. (Gr., "bristling.")

								Species of large size and broad form, having the occiput convex; fastigium of
									vertex horizontal, subterete, often sulcate, not continuous with frontal
									fastigium; eyes small, globose; antennæ longer than body, setaceous; disk of
									pronotum compressed, convex, rounded into the lateral lobes, the latter
									perpendicular, deeper than long, their front and hind margins nearly straight and
									rounded into the subangulate lower margin; tegmina very broad, coriaceous, opaque,
									longer than wings, their apical third obliquely truncate, the overlapping anal
									field triangular, very short in male, densely punctate-reticulate, with
									stridulating vein subobsolete above on the left tegmen; all the femora sulcate and
									armed with several small spines beneath; lobes of mesosternum rounded, of
									metasternum, transverse, truncate behind. Males with supra-anal plate
									elongate-triangular; cerci and subgenital plate variable as to species. Females
									with ovipositor rather long, moderately curved; narrower at base than middle, the
									apex oblique, subacuminate, remotely serrate on both edges; subgential plate
									triangular, obtuse.
								This genus forms a sort of connecting link between the subfamilies Phaneropterinæ
									and Pseudophyllinæ, and was, until 1914, supposed to be confined to Mexico, six
									species having been described from that country, one of which is now known to
									occur in Florida.

								
									225. PHRIXA MAYA
										Saussure & Pictet, 1897, 334. Yucatan Katydid.

									Size large, form robust. Uniform leaf-green, the abdomen fading to
										greenish-yellow. Occiput sparsely subgranulate; fastigium of vertex distinctly
										impressed, but slightly surpassing the scrobes of antennæ; lower margin of
										lateral lobes oblique, subsinuate. Tegmina as described above,  the tympanum of male more or less infuscate, the
										stridulating vein not visible above. Cerci of male terete, very long, strongly
										semicircularly curved, their apical portion attenuate, upcurved, the tips black,
										acute. Subgenital plate deeply grooved below, the lobes narrow, oblique,
										triangular, the apical notch shallow. Other characters as given above. Length of
										body, ♂, 21; of pronotum, 7; of tegmina, 33; of hind femora, 23 mm.
								

								This Mexican species, described from Yucatan, has been taken at Miami, Fla., by
									both Davis and Hebard. The former (1914, 197) records the taking of a single male
									after night, Sept. 22, while "shining the road" that leads through Brickell's
									Hammock with a lantern. Hebard (1915b, 457) mentions the taking, on
									March 5, of a nymph by beating heavy shrubbery in a dense jungle at the same
									place; these two records being the only ones of both genus and species from the
									United States.
								Like the small mantis, Mantoida maya S. & Z., also
									originally described from Yucatan, P. maya is a tropical
									introduced form which will probably be found only sparingly in the southern third
									of Florida.
							
						

						
							Subfamily II. PSEUDOPHYLLINÆ. THE TRUE KATYDIDS.

							Our eastern species of this subfamily are insects of large size, having the head
								very broad, fastigium of vertex short, triangular, acute, grooved above, crowded by
								the prominent, widely margined antennal scrobes; eyes small, subglobose, very widely
								separated; antennæ reaching far beyond the closed tegmina; pronotum saddle-shaped,
								its disk with faint lateral carinæ, rounded into the perpendicular lateral lobes,
								front margin truncate, hind one broadly rounded; prosternum armed with two slender
								tapering spines; tegmina very broad, ovate, leaf-like, usually strongly concave
								within, wholly enclosing the abdomen, their anal field short, triangular,
								overlapping, the sutural margin beyond straight or feebly curved into the broadly
								rounded tips, the costal field crossed by numerous straight parallel veinlets; wings
								shorter than tegmina; membranous, very thin, rarely used in flight; meso- and
								metasterna not lobed; all the femora sulcate and armed beneath; fore tibiæ without
								apical spines, hind ones 4-sided with all the margins spined; first two joints of
								hind tarsi with sides sulcate. Males with stridulating organ very highly developed,
								the transparent speculum of each tegmen depressed or sunken and set in a strong
								half-oval frame, the left or upper one with a strong stridulating cross-vein near
								the base; cerci broad at base, widely forked, the 
								tips of the forks usually incurved and mucronate; subgenital plate long, narrow,
								more or less spear-shaped. Females with ovipositor more than twice as long as
								pronotum, sickle-shaped, apex acute, apical third of lower margin very finely
								serrate; supra-anal plate narrow, twice or more as long as wide, apex rounded or
								subtruncate.
							This subfamily is richly represented in the tropical countries of the world, but
								very poorly so in the United States, where only three genera and half a dozen or so
								species occur. They are for the most part strictly arboreal, dwelling amidst the
								foliage of the tallest of trees, but where these are absent they live in the
								orchards and shrubbery about small towns and country houses. Caudell (1906,
									32) well describes their habits when he says: "The nights may resound with
								the song of the males and yet the listener never sees one of the songsters. This is
								accounted for by the habitat of the insect which is in the tallest trees available.
								The young feed on the leaves and very probably rarely or never leave the shelter of
								the tree upon which they were born. * * * Considerable doubt exists as to whether or
								not these tree katydids ever fly. I have repeatedly endeavored to persuade specimens
								to fly and have succeeded in getting them to spread their wings and sail to the
								ground, alighting with a thud, but no attempt was made by the insects toward actual
								flight. They probably soar from one tree to another after the manner of the flying
								squirrel."
							The principal literature treating of our species of Pseudophyllinæ is by
									Riley, 1874; Brunner, 1895; Blatchley,
								1903; Caudell, 1906, and R. & H., 1916.

							
								KEY TO EASTERN GENERA OF PSEUDOPHYLLINÆ.

								a. Disk of pronotum scarcely longer than wide, the lateral lobes
									subquadrate or deeper than long; tegmina broadly ovate; subgenital plate of male
									with apex entire. I. PTEROPHYLLA.
								aa. Disk of pronotum distinctly longer than wide, the lateral lobes longer
									than deep; tegmina somewhat narrower, elliptical; subgenital plate of male with
									apex deeply forked. II. LEA.
							

							
								I. PTEROPHIYLLA
									Kirby, 1828, 218. (Gr., "wing" + "leaf.")

								Very large green katydids, possessing the characters as above set forth and
									having the lateral carinæ of pronotum evident only near the base; front tibiæ
									unarmed above, middle coxæ with a basal tubercle; hind femora with not more than
									seven spines on the lower outer carina; supra-anal plate in both sexes entire or
									sulcate above only on basal fourth; male with supra-anal plate about as broad as
									long, forks of cerci strongly divergent, their  tips
									separated by a distance greater than the length of lower fork; subgenital plate
									produced into a long spear-shaped appendage, grooved above.
								As pointed out by Kirby (1906, 343) this generic name replaces Cyrtophyllus
									Burm. (1838, 697) for our common eastern true katydids. Caudell
										(1906, 37) recognized four species as belonging to Cyrtophyllus, three of which he described as new. One of these (elongatus) is now known to be a synonym of P.
										camellifolia (C. perspicillatus) while another is placed by R. &
										H. (1916) as a southern race of that species. Our two eastern forms were
									separated by Caudell as follows: 
										KEY TO EASTERN FORMS OF PTEROPHYLLA.

										a. Lower branch of male cerci with incurving apical portion scarcely
											as long as the less tapering basal portion, the apex of the broad base of the
											cercus between the two branches less enlarged; tegmina of female broadly
											rounded apically, the posterior (sutural) margin usually as convex as the
											costal margin. 226. CAMELLIFOLIA.
										aa. Lower branch of male cerci with incurving apical portion as long
											as the thick, uniformly tapering basal portion, the cercus between the two
											branches much enlarged, forming a triangular projection; tegmina of female
											narrowly rounded apically, the posterior margin almost straight. 226a. INTERMEDIUS.
									
								

								
									226. PTEROPHYLLA CAMELLIFOLIA
										(Fabricius), 1775, 283. Northern True Katydid.

									Size large, form robust, the sexes subequal. Tegmina dark green; body, head,
										pronotum and legs paler green tinged with yellow, often becoming dull
										greenish-yellow in drying; tympanum of male brown. Disk of pronotum
										saddle-shaped, coarsely and densely punctate; metazona broader than prozona,
										usually distinctly sloping from the broadly rounded or subangulate hind margin
										to the principal transverse sulcus, the latter descending on lateral lobes much
										farther than the anterior sulcus; prozona about as long as metazona, crossed at
										middle by the deep anterior sulcus, its front margin truncate; lateral lobes
										subquadrate, all their margins nearly straight, the lower angles rounded.
										Tegmina as described under subfamily heading, those of female about two and
										one-half times as long as broad. Male with lower branches of cerci about
										one-fourth shorter than upper ones, their tips strongly incurved and partly
										clasping the sides of the elongate subgenital plate, the upper forks crossing
										each other, each ending in a minute sharp black spine. Ovipositor as described
										under subfamily heading. Length of body, ♂, 25--30, ♀, 26--34; of pronotum, ♂
										and ♀, 5.5--6; of tegmina, ♂, 32--38, ♀, 34--37; of hind femora, ♂, 18--21, ♀,
										19--23; of subgenital spine, ♂, 12--14.5; of ovipositor, 16.5--20 mm. Width of
										pronotum, ♂ and ♀, 6--6.5; of tegmina, ♂, 17--20, ♀, 14--16; of ovipositor, 3.2
										mm. (Fig. 165.)
								

								This broad-winged katydid occurs in considerable numbers throughout Indiana, but
									is much more commonly heard than seen,  as it dwells
									in small colonies in the densest foliage which it can find, such as the tops of
									shade and forest trees, the entwining vines of the grape arbor, the shrubbery of
									yards and orchards and the trees along fence rows. Its note is the loudest made by
									any member of the family, the male having the musical organ larger and better
									developed than in any other. The call is almost always begun soon after dusk with
									a single note uttered at intervals of about five seconds for a half dozen or more
									times. This preliminary note gives the listener the impression that the musician
									is tuning his instrument, preparatory to the well-known double call which is soon
									begun and kept up almost continuously from dark till dawn. Occasionally, in warm
									cloudy weather, this call is made by day, and if the musician is located he will
									sometimes be found resting on the topmost leaf of a shrub, swinging to and fro as
									the breezes blow, and sounding his cymbals in seeming unison with the movement.
									This katydid reaches maturity in southern Indiana by mid-July. The song has been
									heard in Crawford County as early as July 10, and as late as Oct. 27, and a single
									female was captured in LaPorte County, near Lake Michigan, on October 15.
								
									Fig. 165. Male. Natural size. (After Harris.)
								
								In a Putnam County farmyard I listened for hours, one August night, to the
									serenade of a band of katydids. They seemingly tried to outdo themselves for my
									benefit. But to them I was a nonentity--an unknown being. No thought of me or of
									my attentive ear lurked in or passed through their brains, as they clashed their
									cymbals in every shrub and tree around the old farm house. One idea alone
									possessed the minds of the male musicians. That idea was love--passion--"that
									greatest thing in the universe." Long and loud the cymbals sounded, each shuffle,
									each note, doubtless accompanied by the wish that the next would call from the
									skies, from the branches above or about them--from anywhere, it mattered not--one
									of their form and kind. One to whom they could "whisper sweet nothings"--one whom
									they could caress tenderly  with long antennæ--one
									whom, in time, they could clasp lovingly with their slender limbs and forget
									cymbals, calls, skies, food, earth, everything in that long embrace which is to
									them the acme, the one, the highest object of their mature existence.
								The serenade continued thus, almost unbroken, from dusk till dawn. A serenade it
									was in truth--a song of love--of passion, poured out to the listening ears of the
									other sex. At times a single player dropped out of the chorus. His work, his
									love-calls had not been in vain. From some leafy retreat, where she had been
									hidden by day, a lady katydid slowly emerged, and, entranced by the song--by, to
									her ears, the tender wooing notes--drew nearer and nearer unto the charmed circle
									whence the cymbals clanged and shuffled. Their notes became less vigorous. More
									softly they fell upon her ear, until finally, as she coyly advanced they ceased
									and the caress of the antennæ took their place. The other musicians noted the
									absence of one of their chorus, and sounded their drums the louder, but for most
									of them their labor was in vain. Many of them doubtless go through life unblessed
									by the presence of the gentler sex, clanging their nightly calls from mid-July to
									the coming of the hoar-frost, and to its biting nips finally succumbing, possessed
									by the thought--if a katydid can think--that this earth is a desolate and cruel
									abiding place for such as they. So have the most of bachelors--human and
									otherwise--doubtless thought, as in the past they yielded up the ghost.
								The known range of this true katydid extends from New England and London, Ont.,
									west to Michigan and northern Illinois, and south and west to North Carolina,
									northern Georgia and central Kansas. In New England it has been definitely
									recorded only from Massachusetts and Connecticut, Scudder (1900a,
										103) stating that it is found in isolated colonies in the former State
									and more generally but still locally in Connecticut. Davis (1889)
									mentions it as occurring on Staten Island, N. Y., in late July and August.
										Walker (1904a, 330) states that it is common at Niagara, and that
									he had often heard it at Yonkers, N. Y. Caulfield (1888) records the
									only Ontario specimen as taken at electric light in London. It is not mentioned in
									any of the local Michigan lists at hand, though stated by Pettit and McDaniel to
									have been recorded from the State. Lugger, though giving a description and an
									account of its habits (1898, 226), does not record it from Minnesota but says: "If
									found in this State it will very likely occur in small colonies." Ball
										(1897) mentions it as rare at Ames, Iowa, while Bruner (1893a,
										29) records it as not rare in the eastern or wooded part of Nebraska. The
									records south and  southwest of New England are more
									numerous, a number of them, as far as northern Georgia, being given by R.
										& H. (1916, 257). Caudell (1906, 38) states that it is
									found in Kansas.
								Most of the above records have been made under the names Platyphyllum concavum
									Harr. (1841, 128), Cyrtophyllus concavus
									Scudder (1862, 444) and Cyrtophyllus perspicillatus
									Burm. (1838, 697), all of which are synonyms of Pterophylla camellifolia (Fab.). The female was described by Fabricius as
										Locusta camellifolia, and in the next line he described the
									male as L. perspicillata, the former name therefore having
									priority. The Cyrtophyllus elongatus
									Caudell (1906, 40) is also a synonym of P.
										camellifolia.
								Of the call of this species Scudder (1875e) has written: 
										"The note, which sounds like xr, has a shocking lack of
											melody; the poets who have sung its praise must have heard it at the distance
											that lends enchantment. In close proximity the sound is excessively rasping
											and grating, louder and hoarser than I have heard from any other of the
											Locustarians in America or in Europe, and the Locustarians are the noisest of
											all Orthoptera. Since these creatures are abundant wherever they occur, the
											noise produced by them, on an evening specially favorable to their song, is
											most discordant. Usually the notes are two in number. rapidly repeated at
											short intervals. Perhaps nine out of ten will ordinarily give this number, but
											occasionally a stubborn insect persists in sounding the triple
											note--('Katy-she-did'); and as katydids appear desirous of defiantly answering
											their neighbors in the same measure, the proximity of a treble-voiced songster
											demoralizes a whole neighborhood, and a curious medley results; notes from
											some individuals may then be heard all the while, scarcely a moment's time
											intervening between their stridulations, some nearer, others at a greater
											distance; so that the air is filled by these noisy troubadours with an
											indescribably confused and grating clatter."
									
								

								Caudell (1906, 32) says: "The female of this katydid is unique among
									Orthopterous insects, so far as known, in that they stridulate late in a manner
									similar to that of the males. The tegmina are partially opened and closed just as
									are those of the males during stridulation. The roughened surface of the
									triangular anal areas rub over each other, like the tympani of the males, the
									right tegmen sliding beneath the left one. The resulting sound is a sharp,
									scraping note, heard easily for several yards. This sound is made by the female
									when disturbed by handling, but whether or not it is ever made voluntarily in
									nature is not known, but it presumably is when the insect is disturbed by any
									cause."
								According to Riley (1874, 167) the eggs of the true katydid are
									thrust, by means of the sharp ovipositor, into crevices and soft substances, and
									probably, in a state of nature, into the crevices of loose bark, or into the soft
									stems of woody plants. They are of a  dark slate
									color, about 6.5x2 mm. in size, very flat, pointed at each end, and with the edges
									beveled off or emarginate. Caudell (1906, 33) mentions a female that
									was found on Plummer's Island, Md., with the ovipositor inserted into the bark of
									a small elm tree a few feet above the ground. Later (1918, 112) he records one as
									ovipositing in the bark of the black walnut.

								
									226a. PTEROPHYLLA CAMELLIFOLIA INTERMEDIA
										(Caudell), 1906, 41. Southern True Katydid.
									Smaller than the average camellifolia. Color the same.
										Pronotum with anterior transverse sulcus less deeply impressed. Tegmina of
										female narrower, the hind margin, when spread, nearly straight, the tip narrowly
										rounded. Cerci of male as described in key. Length of pronotum, ♂, 5, ♀, 5.5; of
										tegmina, ♂, 34, ♀, 35.5; of hind femora, ♂, 21, ♀, 20--21.5; of subgenital plate
										♂, 13; of ovipositor, 18 mm. Width of tegmina, ♂, 18, ♀, 14 mm.
								

								Hollister, Mo., July 22 (Davis). Caudell's types were from
									Biloxi, Miss., and Wellsboro, Texas. R. & H. (1916, 257) have
									recorded a male from North Carolina and placed intermedia as the southern race of
										camellifolia, stating that their male is intermediate between
									Caudell's types and typical camellifolia. The Missouri specimen
									at hand is a female having the tegmina as described by Caudell. A large series
									from the territory south of the known range of camellifolia will
									be necessary to fix the true status of intermedia.
							

							
								II. LEA
									Caudell, 1906, 42. (Without meaning.)

								Larger, more elongate species than those of Pterophylla, having
									the head narrower, vertex much the same; disk of pronotum about one-half longer
									than the middle width, rugose, the prozona one-fourth longer than metazona;
									lateral lobes perpendicular, one-third longer than high, hind margin straight,
									oblique, rounded into the straight lower one; tegmina elongate-elliptical, two and
									a half times as long as the middle breadth, both margins feebly curved into the
									broadly rounded tips, the venation of the costal field as in Pterophylla. All the femora armed below and the middle and hind tibiæ
									above. Male with shrilling organ as in Pterophylla; supra-anal
									plate triangular, nearly twice as long as wide; cerci widely forked, the base
									between the forks concave, branches slender, tapering, the upper ones incurved and
									crossed, the lower ones upcurved and subparallel; subgenital plate long, slender,
									upcurved, grooved above and beneath, deeply and narrowly forked at apex, the tips
									acute. Female with ovipositor much as in Pterophylla, slightly
									narrower and more upcurved; supra-anal plate  twice
									as long as wide, its apex narrowly rounded; cerci subcylindrical, tapering, the
									tips slightly forked. A very distinct genus, as shown by the characters given in
									key and above. Only one species is so far known.

								
									227. LEA FLORIDENSIS
										(Beutenmiller), 1903, 637. Florida Katydid.

									Green or greenish-yellow fading to dull yellow, the tympanum of male brown.
										Antennæ twice as long as body. Pronotum with two transverse sulci feebly
										impressed, front margin broadly convex, hind one subtruncate or very broadly
										rounded, lateral carinæ rounded and vague on prozona, more distinct on metazona;
										lower front angle of lateral lobes narrowly rounded. Other structural characters
										as given above. Length of body, ♂; 32--43, ♀, 35--39; of pronotum, ♂, 6.5--8, ♀,
										7.2--8.5; of tegmina, ♂, 32--37, ♀, 34--35; of hind femora, ♂, 23--28, ♀,
										26--27; of subgenital plate, ♂, 12; of ovipositor, 14 mm. Width of tegmina, ♂,
										13--15, ♀, 15--18 mm.
								

								LaGrange, Fla., June; Pablo Beach, Fla., Aug. 13 (Davis). Known
									only from Florida, and so far found only in a narrow strip along the east coast
									from Pablo Beach to Miami. The type of Beutenmüller was from near Grant, and he
									says that it lives in the tops of live-oak trees, the note of the male, being a
									continuous "kerr-kerr-kerr-kerr," with about one second interval
									of rest. R. & H. (1907, 302) record the taking in August of
									numerous specimens at Pablo Beach, where it was apparently abundant "in bushes
									about eight to ten feet high growing on the land face of the dunes. The note is
									much lower than in P. camellifolia, decidedly weaker, and
									consisting of single notes separated by regular intervals."
								Davis (1914, 198) records L. floridensis from
									LaGrange, Sept. 10--12, and says: "We sometimes heard among the oaks and cabbage
									palms, but not in the pine woods, a low chluck, chluck, evidently the call of some
									large insect, though its carrying power was poor and one had to be quite near in
									order to hear it. There were several of the insects about, and one evening when
									the moon was shining brightly and with the aid of a lantern, one was discovered
									among the leaves of a cabbage palm. Enough was seen to identify it with Cyrtophyllus floridensis and the next day I knocked a female of
									the same species from a cabbage palm into my umbrella. A nymph was found at night
									hanging from moss on a low palmetto, drying itself, having just shed its skin.
									This nymph was brownish in color, but the adult male and female were all green.
									Near Miami, 180 miles to the south of LaGrange, one of these insects was heard
									stridulating every evening in the latter part of September. It lived among the
									Spanish moss in a large oak in a clearing, and as it always took alarm at the
									light of my lantern it could not be observed, much less collected."
							
						


						

						
							Subfamily III. COPIPHORINÆ. THE CONE-HEADED
								GRASSHOPPERS.

							
								
									"Happy insect! what can be
									In happiness compared to thee?
									Fed with nourishment divine,
									The dewy morning's gentle wine,
									Nature waits upon thee still,
									And thy verdant cup does fill;
									'Tis filled wherever thou dost tread,
									Nature's self thy Ganymede."--Cowley.
								
							

							Species of medium or large size, having the vertex projected forward in the form of
								a cone, sometimes blunt, more often prolonged and pointed, this usually bearing on
								its lower surface a small basal tooth; face long, very oblique; eyes small; pronotum
								with not more than one transverse sulcus; prosternum with two slender spines;
								tegmina seldom expanded at middle, both they and the wings fully developed (except
								in Belocephalus) ; shrilling organ of male well developed, its
								cross-vein prominent; hearing organs present near base of front tibiæ; front coxæ
								with a spine on outer side; fore tibiæ without apical spines; hind femora slender,
								much thickened at base; hind tibiæ armed beneath with two rows of short spines and
								above with three pairs of apical spurs; tarsi depressed, their first two joints
								sulcate lengthwise on the outer side.
							Karney (1912) recognized 43 genera as belonging to this subfamily,
								only four of which occur with us. The principal literature dealing especially with
								the American species is as follows: Redtenbacher, 1891;
									Blatchley, 1893, 1903; Saussure & Pictet,
								1897--1899; Karney, 1907, 1912; Davis, 1912a, 1914,
									1915; Rehn & Hebard, 1915, 1916.

							
								KEY TO EASTERN GENERA OF COPIPHORINÆ.

								a. a. Tegmina lobiform, covering less than half the abdomen; wings wanting
									or very rudimentary. I. BELOCEPHALUS.
								aa. Tegmina and wings well developed.
								b. Fastigium triquetrous or three-sided, flat, very rugose above and
									ending in a short, strongly decurved spine. II. PYRGOCORYPHA.
								bb. Fastigium not triquetrous, usually conical, convex and nearly smooth
									above, the tip not ending in a decurved spine.
								c. Fastigium with a tooth beneath, its lower face on a slightly higher
									plane and well separated from the median facial ridge; tegmina much surpassing
									hind femora, their tips broadly rounded. III. NEOCONOCEPHALUS.
								cc. Fastigium without a tooth beneath, its lower face on the same plane
									and scarcely separated from the median facial ridge; tegmina usually surpassed by
									hind femora, their tips then acute or narrowly rounded. IV. HOMOROCORYPHUS.
							


							

							
								I. BELOCEPHALUS
									Scudder, 1875, 458. (Gr., "sharp" + "head.")
									THE WINGLESS CONE-HEADED GRASSHOPPERS.

								Medium sized Tettigoniids of rather robust form, having the vertex usually
									strongly produced in the form of a stout, sharply pointed cone bearing on its
									lower face a small basal tooth; eyes small, not prominent; pronotum
									subcylindrical, front and hind margins subtruncate or rounded, transverse sulcus
									at apical third very faint, lateral lobes longer than deep, their lower margin
									nearly straight, its angles obtusely rounded; tegmina of males shorter than
									pronotum, with shrilling organ well developed, partly transparent, those of
									females very small, widely separated lateral pads reaching only to second dorsal
									abdominal segment; front and middle femora subequal in length, armed beneath on
									outer margin with two to five minute teeth; hind femora slender, their lower outer
									margins with eight to ten, and inner with three to five rather stout teeth, lower
									lobe of knees ending in a small, acute spine. Male with supra-anal plate very
									broad, triangular, deeply emarginate at apex; cerci very stout, strongly incurved
									and deeply forked at apex, the upper prong of fork the more slender (Fig. 166, c,
									x); subgenital plate broad, feebly emarginate and bearing each side of the notch a
									very small, one-jointed style set in a shallow socket. Ovipositor rather stout,
									nearly straight, half or more the length of body.
								
									Fig. 166. Supra-anal plates of males of Belocephalus, showing
										the form of the notch. a, of sabalis; b, sleighti; c, subapterus; d, excavatus; e, rehni; f, micanopy; x, male cerci of subapterus. (After Davis.)
								
								The species are usually dimorphic in color, either a nearly uniform pale green or
									pale brown, the males being more often of the former hue. Since they cannot fly
									and are not active walkers, each colony is confined closely to its original
									environment, thus causing minor modifications of structure in isolated areas.
								The genus was founded on a single Florida species and up to 1912 was considered
									monotypic. Since that date seven additional nominal species have been described by
									Davis and R. & H., all from the southern States. As only one of the eight has
									been taken by me, Mr. Davis kindly prepared the following key to the species. This
									is based largely upon the males, the females being very difficult  of separation. As will be noted farther on, I
									consider some of the forms treated in the key as only varieties of the older named
									species.

								
									KEY TO SPECIES OF NORTH AMERICAN BELOCEPHALUS.

									a. Vertex of head produced as a stout subcylindrical thorn, tapering
										apically.
									b. Outer extremities of subgenital plate not bent upward and inward, nor
										produced into points.
									c. Antennæ unicolorous; body of male about 40 mm. in length.
									d.  Supra-anal plate with inner sides of V-shaped notch nearly straight
										(Fig. 166, a); hind femora about 20 mm. in length. 228. SABALIS.
									dd. Supra-anal plate with inner sides of V-shaped notch curved (Fig.
										166, b); hind femora about 18 mm. in length. 228a. SLEIGHTI.
									cc. Antennæ spotted or annulated; body of male usually less than 40 mm.
										in length.
									e. Length of body more than 30 mm.
									f. Supra-anal plate with V-shaped notch broadly open, and with sides
										straight (Fig. 166, c); length of body about 34 mm.; a more
										slender species than davisi. 229. SUBAPTERUS.
									ff. Supra-anal plate with V-shaped notch not broadly open; sides of
										notch curved; length of body about 35 mm. 229a. DAVISI.
									ee. Length of body about 24 mm.; supra-anal plate with V-shaped notch
										narrow, its inner sides a little curved, the excavated part surrounding the
										notch with sides declivitous (Fig. 166, d.) 230. EXCAVATUS.
									bb. Outer extremities of subgenital plate bent upward and inward and
										produced into sharp points; antennæ spotted; length of body about 34 mm. 229b. HEBARDI.
									aa. Vertex of head rounded, not produced as a sharp pointed
										thorn.
									g. Outer extremities of subgenital plate not bent upward and inward into
										points; supra-anal plate with V-shaped notch very broad, its inner sides
										straight (Fig. 166, e); length of body of male about 25 mm. 231. REHNI.
									gg. Outer extremities of subgenital plate bent upward and inward and
										produced into points; supra-anal plate with V-shaped notch not very broadly
										open, its inner sides curved (Fig. 166, f); length of body of male about 30 mm.
											232. MICANOPY.
								

								
									228. BELOCEPHALUS SABALIS
										Davis, 1912a, 123. Palmetto Cone-head.

									Male.--Size large for the genus, form robust. Color usually uniform green,
										mandibles and often the clypeal suture black. Fastigium nearly as long as head
										behind the eyes, sharply pointed, its tip and that of the lower basal tooth
										black. Antennæ about as long as body, uniform pale yellow. Disk of pronotum
										feebly rugose, lateral lobes more strongly so. Tegmina less than two-thirds the
										length of pronotum, their tips broadly obliquely rounded. V-shaped notch of
										supra-anal plate. about as wide as deep,  reaching
										one-third to middle of plate. Female.--Usually pale brown with two very narrow
										fuscous stripes extending from near tip of fastigium back to middle third of
										abdomen or beyond (these also present in the brown males), the space between
										them darker on head and pronotum. Tegmina very small, oblong pads, their inner
										edges not reaching the darker stripes on abdomen. Ovipositor strongly tapering
										to an acute apex, its apical half feebly upcurved. Length of body, ♂, 40--41, ♀,
										45; of fastigium beyond base of antennæ, ♂, 3.5, ♀, 4.5; of pronotum, ♂,
										8.6--10.4, ♀, 9--10; of tegmina, ♂, 5.2--7.7, ♀, 2--3; of hind femora, ♂,
										16--20, ♀, 21-21.8; of ovipositor, 16--18 mm. (Fig. 167.)
								

								
									Fig. 167. Female. X 1.7. (Original, by Fox.)
								

								Miami and Parish, Fla., Sept. 22--Oct. 17 (Davis). Ft. Myers,
									Fla., Sept. 17, one green female, Gainesville collection. Described from Punta
									Gorda and recorded also by R. & H. and Davis from Homestead, Marathon,
									Cocoanut Grove and Pineland, Fla., July--November. A subtropical species known
									only from the southern third of Florida. The females appear to be far less
									numerous than the males.
								Of its habits Davis (1912a, 122) says: "At Punta Gorda in November,
									the males would perch on the topmost leaf of a scrub palmetto and stridulate a
									song hardly to be distinguished from the rapid ik-ik-ik of the
										Conocephalus ensiger of the northeastern United States. They
									fed on the palmetto, their powerful jaws enabling them to gnaw the tough leaves."
									At Homestead R. & H. (1914c, 401) found "the species very common
									on scrub palmetto, Serenoa serrulata (Michx.) in the pine woods,
									and only at night, when their stridulations permitted stalking with a flash-lamp.
									The song was faint, and ceased on an approach of even as much as twenty feet.
									However, they were easy to capture when located, as they almost invariably made no
									attempt to escape, but instead merely slipped down the palmetto leaf a few inches
									or around to the other side and there flattened themselves out with caudal limbs
									extended backward and cephalic limbs forward. When picked up they would violently
									attempt to bite their captor, and if successful could inflict a painful bite on a
									tender portion of  the hand. Their note is very low
									and consists of a succession of sounds like zip-zip-zip-zip-zip-zip-zip-zip." Of a specimen kept in captivity
										Hebard (1915b, 458) says: "Its actions show how absolutely
									nocturnal the species is; this specimen resting rigid in some concealed position
									during the day, with cephalic limbs and antennæ directed straight forward and
									median and caudal, limbs straight backward, but at night moving actively about and
									extremely alert and rapid in its movements."

								
									228a. BELOCEPHALUS SABALIS SLEIGHTI
										Davis, 1914, 199. Pine Key Cone-head.

									Size, form and color of B. sabalis. Differs only in having
										the fastigium and hind femora a little shorter and in the form of the V-shaped
										notch of supra-anal plate. In sabalis the sides of this notch
										are straight with the apical angle (point of the V) acute. The prongs formed by
										the V have their extreme tips acute and located at the middle of each prong,
										(Fig. 166, a.) In sleighti the notch is
										slightly deeper, the apical angle narrowly rounded and the inner sides of the V
										concave, so that the tips of the resulting prongs are more obtuse and located on
										their outer margins (Fig. 166, b.)
								

								Big Pine Key, Fla., July 19, Sept. 19 (Davis). In the
									measurements of a series of sabalis given by R. & H.
										(1914c, 401) the length of the hind femora is shown to vary from 15.9 to
									19.7 mm. and the "length of fastigium from the eyes" from 3.1 to 4.5 mm. The
									measurements of these parts given by Davis in his description of sleighti and in the key fall well within the individual variations of sabalis shown by R. & H. The slight difference in the form of
									supra-anal notch of male I consider also as well within the limits of specific
									variation of such organs, as it has been previously shown that the secondary
									genital organs of the males of Orthoptera are more subject to variation than any
									other part of the body. I therefore regard sleighti as only an
									incipient species or variety of sabalis, the slight differences
									in structure being due to some feature of environment or inherited tendency, as
									yet unexplained. B. sleighti was described from Big Pine Key and
									has not been recorded elsewhere. It was also found on saw palmetto and, says
									Davis, had a "song much like that of B. sabalis" its habits and
									note thus being additional evidence of its specific identity with that
									species.

								
									229. BELOCEPHALUS SUBAPTERUS
										Scudder, 1875, 459. Half-winged Cone-head.

									Male.--Size medium for the genus; form moderately robust. Color usually pale
										green tinged with yellow, with two narrow dark stripes extending from middle of
										fastigium to hind margin of pronotum; tip of fastigium, basal tooth of same,
										clypeal suture and mandibles shining  black; basal
										halves of antennæ spotted or ringed with dark brown; fore femora often with a
										row of small brown dots on outer face. Fastigium as long as the occiput,
										strongly tapering to a sharp decurved point. Disk of pronotum twice as long as
										wide, slightly rugose, the lateral lobes much more so. Tegmina as long as
										pronotum, their tips narrowly obliquely rounded. Notch of supra-anal plate
										distinctly wider than deep (Fig. 166, c.) Female.--Usually
										brown, with the interval between the narrow fuscous stripes on head and pronotum
										darker. Tegmina as in sabalis. Ovipositor slightly longer than
										hind femora, less tapering and with tip more obtuse than in sabalis. Length of body, ♂, 28--34, ♀, 30--38; of fastigium beyond the
										eye, ♂, 2.6--3.2, ♀, 3.5--4; of pronotum, ♂, 6.2--8, ♀, 8--8.5; of tegmina, ♂,
										8--8.5, ♀, 3--3.5; of hind femora, ♂, 14--17, ♀, 17--19; of ovipositor, 19--21
										mm. (Fig. 168.)
								

								
									Fig. 168. Male X 2. (Original by Fox.)
								

								Gainesville,. Sanford and Dunedin, Fla., Oct. 14--Jan. 1.3 (W. S.
										B.). Three specimens were taken at Sanford Jan. 11 and 12, from between
									boards of a lumber pile and two at Dunedin, Jan. 13, from beneath a board near the
									border of a pond, thus showing that the adults in central Florida sometimes
									hibernate. Scudder's types were females from N. E. Florida, and the species has
									been recorded from many points in the northern half of that State. It has also
									been taken by R. & H. (1916, 258) at Florence, Ashley Junction
									and Yemassee, S. Car., and at numerous stations in Georgia. They state that it is
									most abundant in Georgia in early December, and is then found mostly amongst the
									shrubbery and other undergrowth of open pine woods and palmetto hammocks.

								
									229a. BELOCEPHALUS SUBAPTERUS DAVISI
										Rehn & Hebard, 1916, 259. Davis's Cone-head.

									Somewhat larger and more robust than subapterus. Color and
										black markings on head, antennæ and pronotum as there. Differs in the form of
										the emargination of the supra-anal plate of male, the notch being more rounded
										than in typical subapterus. "It is not quite as deep as in sleighti, and has the sides convex and angle very broadly
										rounded. The lateral productions formed by this emargination have evenly
										converging sides with blunt and sharply rounded apex situated mesad." (R. & H.) Length of body, ♂, 33--40, ♀, 36; of vertex,
										3.7--4.5; of pronotum, ♂,  7.9--8.9, ♀, 8.1; of
										tegmina, ♂, 5.6--8.1, ♀, 2.3; of hind femora, ♂, 16.4--18.8, ♀, 18.4; of
										ovipositor, 19.2 mm.
								

								An examination of the type, and also of a pair of this form in the U. S. National
									Museum from Chuluota, Fla., shows it to be intermediate in size between sabalis and subapterus, with the supra-anal
									notch also intermediate in form. It has not only the black markings of subapterus but the relative length and form of the male tegmina
									are exactly as in that species and not as in sabalis and sleighti as stated by R. & H. In subapterus,
										davisi, hebardi and rehni the tegmina are one-fourth
									longer than broad, as long as or slightly longer than pronotum and with tips
									narrowly obliquely rounded, while in sabalis and sleighti they are as broad or slightly broader than long, less than
									two-thirds the length of pronotum, the tips broadly obliquely rounded. As R. &
									H. admit (1916, 261) that there is a "considerable amount of size variation" and a
									"decided amount of variation in the shape of the supra-anal notch" in their type
									series, I can only regard davisi as a variety of subapterus, it being apparently an intermediate form between that species
									and sabalis.
								The types of davisi were from Billy's Island, Okefenoke Swamp,
									Ga., where subapterus also occurs. The males were taken at night
									when they were found in numbers stridulating in the undergrowth of the pine
									woods.

								
									229b. BELOCEPHALUS SUBAPTERUS HEBARDI
										Davis, 1912a, 123. Hebard's Cone-head.

									Differs from subapterus only in having the extremities of
										the subgenital plate, near the insertion of the styles, bent upward and inward
										and slightly produced into sharp points. The form, size, color, dark markings of
										antennæ, head and thorax, length and form of tegmina and supra-anal notch of
										male are precisely as in subapterus. The females of the two
										forms are very similar, the ovipositor of hebardi being
										slightly longer, straighter and more slender than in typical subapterus.
								

								Parish, Fla., July 26, Sept. 21 (Davis). Described from Punta
									Gorda, Fla., where it occurred in November on the same clumps of palmetto as B. sabalis. In the Philadelphia collections also from Ft. Myers.
									Davis states that it was "more retiring in habits than sabalis
									and sang a slow zeek-zeek-zee-zeek." I regard it as only a
									variety of subapterus.

								
									230. BELOCEPHALUS EXCAVATUS
										Davis, 1915, 98.

									Smaller than subapterus, color and black markings on
										antennæ, head and pronotum as in that species. Fastigium sharp-pointed, slightly
										bent downward and tipped with black. Antennæ longer than body. Abdomen with a
										well defined interrupted carina. Femora and tibiæ of all legs  blotched with brown and tips of spines black. Notch
										of supra-anal plate narrow with inner sides but little curved, the excavated
										part surrounding the notch with sides more declivitous than in any other known
										species of the genus (Fig. 166, d.) Length of body, ♂, 24; of
										fastigium beyond base of antennæ, 2.5; of pronotum, 7; of tegmina, 7; of hind
										femora, 13.5 mm.
								

								Not seen by me. The above are the salient points of the original description.
									Known definitely only by the unique brown male type taken at Gainesville, Fla.,
									Oct. 2, and now in the American Museum of Natural History.

								
									231. BELOCEPHALUS REHNI
										Davis, 1912a, 124. Rehn's Cone-head.

									Agrees with subapterus in color and general markings.
										Differs in its smaller size and in having the fastigium shorter and blunt
										pointed. Femora and tibiæ of all the legs blotched with brown; abdomen finely
										flecked with the same color. Styles about four times as long as broad. Length of
										body, ♂, 24, ♀, 29; of fastigium beyond base of antennæ, ♂, 1.5, ♀, 2; of
										pronotum, ♂ and ♀, 6.5; of tegmina, ♂, 7--7.5, ♀, 2; of hind femora, ♂, 13, ♀,
										17; of ovipositor, 21 mm.
								

								Described from five specimens taken from beneath loose bark of pine and between
									boards at Newberry, Fla., in November. Known also from Ocala, Orlando and
									Dunellon, Fla. The small size and blunt fastigium are probably sufficient to
									separate it specifically from subapterus which it otherwise very
									closely resembles.

								
									232. BELOCEPHALUS MICANOPY
										Davis, 1914, 200.

									Size and form of a small subapterus. Mandibles, lower edge
										of front, base of antennæ beneath, tip and lower tooth of fastigium, black;
										upper surface of head and pronotum with a faint yellowish line on either side,
										bordered within by blackish, these extending backward to base of thorax, male,
										onto abdomen, female; in the latter sex the entire area between the lines dark
										brown. Antennæ longer than body, male, slightly shorter, female, the joints of
										basal third or more in both sexes spotted or annulate with black. Femora and
										tibiæ of all legs blotched with brown at knees, with tips of spines black.
										Fastigium short, blunt pointed, somewhat intermediate in form between subapterus and hebardi. Male with notch of
										supra-anal plate and outer extremities of subgenital plate as described in key.
										Styles about three times as long as broad. Length of body, ♂ and ♀, 30; of
										fastigium beyond base of antennæ, 2; of pronotum, ♂ and ♀, 9; of tegmina, ♂, 7,
										♀, 3; of hind femora, ♂ and ♀, 16; of ovipositor, 19 mm.
								

								Big Pine Key, Fla., Sept. 19 (Davis). Recorded only from that
									island, where it was taken in September and October from "among the leaves of the
									silver palm, Coccothrinax argentea Lodd. The song is slow and
									readily distinguished from that of B. sleighti." (Davis.)
								
								From the key and descriptions it will be noted that we have three groups or types
									of Belocephalus in Florida, viz.: (a). The 
										sabalis group-large bulky forms with antennæ unicolorous,
										fastigium very long and sharply pointed, and male with short broad tegmina and
										supra-anal notch deep. (b). The subapterus
										group --species of medium size with antennæ spotted, fastigium of moderate size
										and sharply pointed and male with longer, narrower tegmina and supra-anal notch
										broadly and shallowly concave. (c). The rehni group-species of small or medium size, with antennæ spotted and
										tegmina as in (b), fastigium short and blunt, and supra-anal
										notch of moderate width and depth. A careful study of a large series of
										specimens from all parts of the State would perhaps show that only three forms,
											sabalis, subapterus and rehni are
										sufficiently differentiated to be regarded as valid species; the other nominal
										forms being only offshoots, intermediate subspecies or varieties, based upon
										slight modifications of the very plastic secondary genital organs of the
										males.
								
							

							
								II. PYRGOCORYPHA
									Stål, 1873a, 50. (Gr., "tower" + "head.")

								Rather robust species of medium size, having the fastigium prolonged,
									triquetrous, acute, flat above and with a prominent basal tooth on the lower side;
									eyes small, prominent; antennæ very slender, about as long as body; pronotum with
									disk flat, front and hind margins subtruncate; lateral carinæ obtuse; lateral
									lobes perpendicular, longer than deep, their front margin broadly obliquely
									rounded into the lower one, this short, oblique, its posterior angle obtuse, hind
									margin broadly rounded; humeral sinus broad and deep; tegmina elongate, their tips
									rounded; front and middle femora armed beneath with three to five spines on outer
									margin; hind femora slender with numerous spines on both lower margins; all the
									tibiæ armed beneath with numerous slender spines; meso- and metasternal lobes
									triangular, acute. Cerci of male stout, subcylindrical, curved, each ending in two
									claw-like appendages, these flattened, strongly incurved and ending in a sharp
									spine. Ovipositor slender, straight, acute, of nearly equal width throughout, not
									reaching tips of tegmina.
								Kirby (1906, 239) recognized nine species, distributed throughout
									the world, only one of which inhabits the United States.

								
									233. PYRGOCORYPHA UNCINATA
										(Harris), 1841, 132. Hook-faced Cone-head.

									Green or pale reddish-brown; mandibles black; tegmina with numerous widely
										scattered, minute black dots. Fastigium elongate-triangular, about as long as
										occiput, flat and very rugose above, its tip ending in a minute, sharp decurved
										spine. Disk and lateral lobes of pronotum strongly rugose-punctate. Hind femora
										short, reaching slightly beyond  middle of
										tegmina. Other characters as given under the generic heading. Length of body, ♂,
										32--34, ♀, 35--42; of fastigium beyond eye, ♂, 3.5-4; ♀, 4--4.5; of pronotum, ♂,
										9.5, ♀, 10; of tegmina, ♂, 37--42, ♀, 42-46; of hind femora, ♂, 18, ♀, 20; of
										ovipositor, 19--21.5 mm.
								

								Gainesville, Miami, and Cape Sable, Fla., Sept. 24--Feb. 23. The Miami specimens
									from the Davis collection are labelled: "This and eight or ten others eating grass
									at night." It does not appear to be widely distributed in Florida, having been
									recorded only from Miami, Marco, Chokoloskee, Everglade and Charlotte Harbor, all
									in the southern third of the State. Davis states that their song resembles azik, azik, azik, azik, and that they are very shy when singing
									and difficult to capture. At Charlotte Harbor Hebard says (1916, 20) "They were
									heard on May 19 and 20 everywhere after dark on Useppa Island, singing in the tops
									of the cabbage palmettoes, where they were usually located in the berry clusters.
									A few were also heard in the undergrowth of the heavier tangles and in mangroves
									on the edge of the swamp. While singing the males were very wary when approached,
									usually ceasing their song at a distance of 15 or more feet. The insect is slow in
									movements, clinging tenaciously to its support and easily seized if approached
									cautiously." The Cape Sable specimen, taken on Feb. 23, was a nymph of the third
									instar.
								The wariness of P. uncinata mentioned by Davis and Hebard was
									not noted by Allard who captured a single male in stridulation at Thompson's
									Mills, Ga., in October. He says (1911b) "The insect was traced by its note to the
									low grass and weeds on a bank almost in the midst of the settlement. By the strong
									light of a bull's eye lantern the writer approached within a foot or two of the
									insect which continued to stridulate vigorously for some time, even though in the
									full glare of a strong light. After its notes had ceased, the insect at intervals
									jerked its body and wings spasmodically without producing any sound. This peculiar
									behavior is characteristic of a number of species of Conocephalus when disturbed during stridulation. On the grass and weeds
									very near where this male was taken, the writer a night or two before heard
									several locusts in stridulation, presumably individuals of P.
										uncinata. As the notes of these insects were heard but one or two nights,
									it is possible that their stridulation period is very brief. The note is a loud,
									penetrating, prolonged z-z-z-z-z-z-z-z-z-z-z-z-z-z quite like
									that of a Conocephalus."
								The type of Harris was from Alabama and the species is known to range from
									Clarksville, Tenn., and Raleigh, N. Car., west  and
									south to Arkansas, Texas, Cuba, Mexico and Central America, though very few
									records of its occurrence in the United States have been made.
							

							
								III. NEOCONOCEPHALUS
									Karney, 1907, 22. (Gr., "near" + Conocephalus.)

								This generic name takes the place of Conocephalus of my
									Orthoptera of Indiana (1903, 363). The members of the genus are readily known by
									having the fastigium of vertex prolonged forward and more or less upward into a
									cone which much exceeds in length the first segment of the antennæ, and bears a
									pointed basal tooth beneath. This cone is never hooked downward at tip as in Pyrgocorypha and is much less rugose above than there. In addition
									they have the eyes small, subrotund, rather prominent; spines of prosternum long
									and slender; pronotum with disk usually nearly twice as long as wide, its sides
									feebly diverging from apex to base; front margin subtruncate, hind one broadly
									rounded, lateral carinæ distinct but obtuse, humeral sinus usually broad, shallow,
									rounded; lateral lobes as deep or slightly deeper than long, their front margin
									broadly obliquely rounded into the lower one which is short and also rounded into
									the hind one, the posterior angle usually obsolete; tegmina long, narrow, rounded
									at end, much surpassing the abdomen and slightly exceeding the wings; stridulating
									organ on left tegmen of male opaque and of a coarse texture, on right or lower
									one, transparent at the center; front and middle femora rather short, usually
									armed beneath with a few very short spines; hind femora long, slender, usually
									with both lower margins armed beneath with numerous fine spines. Male with
									supra-anal plate broadly emarginate at apex, the lobes each side of notch ending
									in a spine; cerci much as in Pyrgocorypha, the appendages at end
									not flattened, but incurved and spinose as there; subgenital plate emarginate, the
									styles very short and set in sockets on the extreme tips of the projections each
									side of notch. Ovipositor rather narrow, nearly straight, oftentimes of excessive
									length; the eggs of those species in which the oviposition has been noted, being
									deposited between the stems and root leaves of grasses, reeds and sedges.
								Although these larger cone-heads are said to be rather common by those writers
									who have prepard lists of Orthoptera from other states, they appear to be, in
									Indiana, the least abundant of all the winged Tettigoniidae, 20 years collecting
									having yielded fewer than 30 specimens. They appear to be more common in  the northern than in the southern half of the State.
									As in Belocephalus the color is dimorphic, green and brown forms
									of most of the species being known, the former largely predominating.
								Of the habits of the species as found in Illinois, McNeill (1891)
									has written: "All the species of Conocephalus seem to possess
									more intelligence than is usual among the Orthoptera, and they are about the most
									difficult of the order to approach. In escaping they usually slip or fall into the
									grass instead of jumping or flying; but they seem to fully understand that they
									are very well protected by their color and form. If approached very cautiously
									they often remain quite still upon the stem of grass upon which you have surprised
									them with the usually well founded expectation that you will not be able to
									distinguish them from the green herbage around. If they think it worth while to
									make some active movement to escape they will frequently slip around on the other
									side of the stem and walk down the stem to the ground or off upon another plant.
									Unlike most Orthoptera they do not use their front legs in holding to the mouth
									the thing upon which they feed. Instead of biting they seem to wrench or tear away
									pieces from the stems or leaves."
								Allard (1910c) says: "The stridulations of the species of Neoconocephalus, like the notes of all the Locustidae, entirely
									lack any musical tone or trill so characteristic of the crickets. Their notes are
									always loud, buzzing and penetrating, and differ not so much in sound-quality as
									in the manner of delivery. The notes of all species may be definitely classed as
									intermittent or prolonged. These insects are almost strictly terrestrial, are
									persistent singers, and most species stridulate most actively at night."
								Redtenbacher, in his monograph (1891), recognized 101 species of Conocephalus from all parts of the world. Scudder (1900, 72)
									listed 16 from the United States. Under the generic name Conocephaloides
									Kirby (1906, 241) recognized 143 species of the insects. Karney
										(1907, 22) proposed a number of subgenera for this aggregation and in
									1912 elevated his name Neoconocephalus to generic rank, the
									older names Conocephalus and Conocephaloides
									having been shown to belong rightfully to other groups of Tettigoniidae. Rehn
									& Hebard, in their Synopsis (1915) recognized only 11 species and one variety
									from America north of Mexico, all of which occur in the territory covered by this
									work.

								
									KEY TO AMERICAN SPECIES OF NEOCONOCEPHALUS.

									a. Fastigium or cone of vertex distinctly longer than wide, its apex not
										broadly and evenly rounded.
									b. Fastigium narrowing rapidly from near base or middle to apex,  much longer than its basal width, its tip (except
										in melanorhinus) narrowly rounded (Fig. 169, a--e.)
									c. Lower surface of fastigium in part or wholly black.
									d. Both lower margins of hind femora armed with spines; under surface of
										fastigium almost wholly shining black (Fig. 169, a--d.)
									e. Larger and more robust, length of body, female, 38 or more mm.; of
										fastigium of female in front of eyes, 5.3 or more mm. 234. EXILISCANORUS.
									ee. Smaller and more slender; length of body, female, less than 36 mm.;
										of fastigium rarely more than 4.5 mm.

									
										Fig. 169. Ventral views of fastigium of males of Neoconocephalus. X 6. a, exiliscanorus; b, nebrascensis; c, lyristes; d, melanorhinus; e, ensiger; f, robustus; g, crepitans; h, caudellianus; i, palustris; j, velox; k, retusus; 1, triops.
											(After R. & H.)
									

									f. Ovipositor distinctly longer than hind femora; tip of fastigium
										narrowly rounded (Fig. 169, b, c.)
									g. Ovipositor surpassing tips of tegmina 5--7 mm.; form of male slightly
										more robust; fastigium usually slightly depressed above. 235.
												NEBRASCENSIS.
									gg. Ovipositor not surpassing tips of tegmina; form of male more
										slender; fastigium subcylindrical, usually slightly longer, more attenuate. 235a. LYRISTES.
									ff. Ovipositor shorter than hind femora; fastigium about twice as long
										as its basal width, its tip subtruncate (Fig. 169, d.) 236. MELANORHINUS.
									dd. Under surface of fastigium with only the sides and tip black (Fig.
										169, e); usually the inner lower carina of hind femora alone
										armed with spines; ovipositor longer than hind femora. 237. ENSIGER.
									cc. Lower surface of fastigium without black markings; form robust; both
										lower margins of hind femora usually spinose; ovipositor about as long as hind
										femora. 238. ROBUSTUS.
									bb. Fastigium narrowing but little if at all from near base to apex, its
										tip rounded or subtruncate (Fig. 169, g--1.)
									h. Ovipositor but little if any shorter than hind femora; form
										robust.
									i. Lower surface of fastigium immaculate. 238a. CREPITANS.
									ii. Lower surface of fastigium with black margins (Fig. 169, h.) 239. CAUDELLIANUS.
									hh. Ovipositor distinctly shorter than hind femora; form more slender;
										under surface of fastigium immaculate (Fig. 169, i, j.)


									

									j. Length of hind femora, male, 15.2--19.4 mm.; male smaller, less
										slender; tip of vertex less broadly rounded; lower carinæ of hind femora darker
										near bases of spines. 240. PALUSTRIS.
									jj. Length of hind femora 22.5--25.7 mm.; male larger, form very
										slender; tip of vertex more broadly rounded; lower carinæ of hind femora
										immaculate. 241. VELOX.
									aa. Fastigium of vertex not or but very slightly longer than wide, its
										apex broadly, evenly rounded, and lower surface with a black mark near tip (Fig.
										169, k, 7.)
									k. Ovipositor much longer than hind femora; form slender; vertex
										slightly longer than wide, convex above (Fig. 169, k); tegmina
										surpassing hind femora less than 11 mm. 242. RETUSUS.
									kk. Ovipositor but slightly if any longer than hind femora; form more
										robust; vertex usually wider than long, almost flat above (Fig. 169, l); tegmina surpassing hind femora 15 or more mm. 243. TRIOPS.
								

								
									Fig. 170. Stridulating fields of male tegmen of Neoconocephalus. X 3. a, exiliscanorus; b, lyristes; c, ensiger; d, caudellianus; e, palustris; f, retusus. (After R. & H.)
								

								
									234. NEOCONOCEPHALUS EXILISCANORUS
										(Davis), 1887, 57. Slightly Musical Cone-head.

									Size large for the genus, form moderately robust. Pea-green tinged with
										yellowish on head, pronotum and fore femora, or brown with tegmina irregularly
										dotted with fuscous spots; the green individuals with a narrow yellowish line
										along the lateral carinæ of pronotum, this absent on occiput but present on
										lateral margins of fastigium; also often with a short and very narrow oblique
										yellowish line behind each eye; mandibles yellow; tarsi and apical joints of
										palpi more or less infuscated. Fastigium very prominent, extending 5--7.5 mm. in
										front of eyes, subdepressed and with a slight median furrow on basal half,
										gradually tapering from base forward, its apical half curved slightly upward,
										the apex narrowly rounded; lower basal tooth small, blunt. Pronotum subequal in
										length to fore femora, of more than average breadth; lateral carinæ evident but
										dull, hind margin broadly rounded; lateral lobes flaring noticeably outward
										rather than perpendicular as in most of the other species, their surface
										slightly rugose. Tegmina reaching slightly beyond middle of ovipositor, their
										basal third rather broad, apical two-thirds tapering very gradually to the
										rounded apex. Stridulating organ of male large, very broad, the main vein long,
										moderately swollen (Fig. 170, a.) Wings equalling the tegmina
										in length. Fore and middle femora short, stout, usually armed beneath on front
										carina with a few very short spines. Hind femora rather short, slender, armed
										beneath on each carina with 5 to 9 small but sharp spines. Hind tibiæ slightly
										shorter than the femora. Ovipositor  slender, of
										more than average length and nearly equal width throughout. Length of body, ♂,
										33--37, ♀, 38--44; of fastigium, ♂, 4.2--6.1, ♀, 5.3-7.5; of pronotum, ♂,
										7.6--9; ♀, 7.9--9; of tegmina, ♂, 33.5--46.4, ♀, 40-53; of hind femora, ♂,
										19.3--24.8, ♀, 24--32; of ovipositor, 35--47 mm. (Fig. 171.)
								

								
									Fig. 171. Female. Natural size. (Original.)
								

								New Harmony, Ind., September. Staten and Long Islands, N. Y., August, (Davis.) The only known Indiana specimen of this large, long-headed
									Tettigoniid is the female type of my Conocephalus bruneri (1903,
									367) taken at New Harmony, Posey Co., by the late Arthur Dransfield. Not being
									able to identify it by the literature available, it was sent to Prof. Lawrence
									Bruner, who wrote me that it was evidently an undescribed form. Karney
										(1907, 30) first placed it as a synonym of exiliscanorus and comparison with State Island females of that species
									shows that he is probably correct, though the Indiana specimen is distinctly
									larger and with longer fastigium than any of those received from Davis.
								The types of Davis were found amongst the cat-tails that grew on the salt marshes
									of Staten Island, and it ranges along the Atlantic coast from New Haven, Conn., to
									Raleigh, N. Car., and Mississippi, and inland to Clarksville, Tenn., Thompson's
									Mills, Ga., and Dallas, Texas. Of its habits Davis (1887) says: "This
									insect keeps very close to the ground, hiding well in the vegetation, and is not
									easily discovered. The sound produced when stridulating is very faint, not louder
									than that made by Gryllus abbreviatus and I was much surprised
									to hear such a faint song from so large an insect. I have in consequence named it
									the 'slightly musical Conocephalus.'" Later (1889) he adds that "exiliscanorus devours the heads of the meadow grass (Spartina) and is such a slow singer that one can easily estimate the
									number of times one wing is drawn over the other, which is about 115 times a
									minute." Again (1911) he says that the song varies considerably in loudness
									according to the age of the singer, while its volume is also to some extent
									dependent upon the temperature.



								

								About Tappahannock, Va., Fox found it "frequent between August 9 and September 10
									in tidal marshes occurring most commonly in tall reeds, Spartina
										cynosuroides (L.) but spreading in small numbers through the briery
									thickets and corn fields of the adjoining dry land."
								R. & H. (1915, 374) state that the song of N.
										exiliscanorus
									
										"Is a ziit-ziit-ziit-ziit--a vibrant rattling note, rising
											and falling in intensity, often ceasing as if from exhaustion. The song is
											rapid, the sounds being emitted on warm evenings about three to the second.
											When near a colony of this species on favorable evenings after dark the air is
											vibrant with the sound; as several singers cease others take up the constantly
											rising and falling song, but at no very great distance the sound is inaudible.
											The insects were found not to begin to sing until nearly sunset and before
											dark often ceased their song upon any attempt to approach the spot After dark
											the singing was much more vigorous and the singers could then even be
											approached with a light, cautiously seized while singing and moving about in
											the bushy weeds and heavy grasses into which they climbed while stridulating.
											Toward midnight, after the air is chilled, the singers become audibly fewer
											and their stridulations less intense. The species is found very local but
											often in large numbers in the heavier tangles of weeds, low bushy plants or
											heavy reeds in both fresh and salt water marshes. The females were found often
											in grasses near the singers; one was taken ovipositing in a grass blade at
											dusk."
									
								

								
									235. NEOCONOCEPHALUS NEBRASCENSIS
										(Bruner), 1891, 72. Nebraska Cone-head.

									Size median, form slender. General color either bright grass green or a
										yellowish brown or tan with usually narrow yellowish lines along lateral carinæ
										of pronotum; antennæ in the brown individuals often tinged with pinkish; hind
										tibiæ together with all the tarsi more or less infuscated. Fastigium slender, as
										long as occiput, male, distinctly longer, female, projected upward, moderately
										tapering, its tip narrowly rounded, under surface shining black. Pronotum with
										disk narrow, lateral carinæ almost parallel, hind margin rounded, surface
										rugose-punctate, humeral sinus rather deep and narrow. Stridulating field of
										male tegmen large, broad, very similar to that of N. r.
											crepitans. Femora armed beneath as in exiliscanorus.
										Anal cerci of male stout, with strong internal hooks. Ovipositor long, slender,
										lanceolate, a little curved upward and extending 5--7 mm. beyond the closed
										tegmina. Length of body, ♂, 27--30, ♀, 32-33; of fastigium, ♂, 3.2--3.5, ♀,
										3.7--4; of pronotum, ♂, 7.6--8, ♀, 7.2-8; of tegmina, ♂, 36--38, ♀, 40--42; of
										hind femora, ♂, 20--23, ♀, 23-24.7; of ovipositor, 29--32.5 mm.
								

								Putnam, Vigo, Fulton and Lake Counties, Ind. (W. S. B.);
									Moline, Homer, Savanna and Normal, Ill. (Urbana coll.) In
									central and northern Indiana this is the most common of the three species of Neoconocephalus there occurring. It frequents the same haunts as
										C. ensiger and when approached often attempts to escape by
									burrowing beneath the fallen grass. In Nebraska 
									Bruner (1891) says it is found throughout the eastern part of the
									state, occurring more frequently in the natural groves growing along the principal
									streams.
								The known range of typical nebrascensis extends from Sarnia,
									Ont., and Ohio west to Minnesota, eastern Nebraska and northeastern Kansas and
									south and west to Clarksville, Tenn., and St. Louis, Mo.
								Walker (1904a, 338) states that at Sarnia, Ont., by tracing their
									song to its source, he found four males on August 12 in a large stretch of open
									grassy marshland bordering the St. Clair River. "The song was a loud penetrating
									continuous whirr, quite suggestive of the dog-day cicada, but less clear and very
									unlike that of N. ensiger. It was heard only in the morning
									during bright sunlight."

								
									235a. NEOCONOCEPHALUS NEBRASCENSIS LYRISTES
										(Rehn & Hebard), 1905, 45.

									Differs from typical nebrascensis by the characters given
										in key, the males separable only by their slightly less robust form, and in
										having the stridulating field more narrow and elongate, the secondary veins
										heavy only at junction with the primary one (Fig. 170, b.)
										Fastigium variable both in length and breadth, in extremes in females extending
										5 mm. beyond the eyes. Ovipositor ranging in length from 23 to 30 mm. but not
										surpassing the tegmina in any of the specimens seen; in New Jersey females
										somewhat stouter with apical fourth usually more tapering than in typical nebrascensis from Indiana. Length of body, ♂ and ♀, 28--35; of
										fastigium, 3.7--5; of pronotum, 7.2--8.8; of tegmina, ♂, 35.7--42.4, ♀, 44--52;
										of hind femora, ♂, 20--24, ♀, 23--26; of ovipositor, 23.3--30.7 mm.
								

								After studying at Philadelphia the types of both forms and comparing with them
									Indiana specimens of what Bruner named for me as nebrascensis
									and New Jersey, Virginia and Florida specimens of what is known as lyristes, I have placed the latter as the eastern and southern
									representative or race of nebrascensis. No fixed character of
									specific importance has been given separating the two. Rehn (1906b)
									says the males differ in that nebrascensis "is of a more robust
									build, with broader tegmina, wider and more arcuate tympanum, more expanded caudal
									section of pronotum and deeper lateral lobes of the same;" all of which characters
									are comparative only and fall within the limits of individual variation as shown
									by the specimens examined. R. & H. in their key (1915, 369) separate the two
									only by the terms "form robust, vertex slender," nebrascensis
									and "form slender, vertex heavy," lyristes. In their later
									treatment they do not compare lyristes with nebrascensis, but only with melanorhinus, a species with
									much shorter fastigium and ovipositor. Davis (Ms.) states that  he was unable to separate the males from Indiana and
									New Jersey except by the labels they bore, and Fox (Ms.) says that the only
									differences he could find in both sexes was the slight one afforded by the
									fastigium.
								The type of lyristes was a male labelled "Chokoloskee, Fla.," a
									locality which R. & H. (1915, 384) seriously question, but which
									is borne out by a Palm Beach female at hand, which agrees in all particulars with
									the type and New Jersey specimens except in color, it being a nearly uniform
									purplish-brown instead of green and in its having a slightly longer and more
									slender fastigium.
								The known range of the race lyristes extends from Long Island,
									N. Y., and various points in New Jersey, southwest to Tappahannock, Va. It is also
									known from the type locality and Palm Beach, Fla., but not from intervening points
									from Virginia southward. R. & H. (1915, 381) state that lyristes is "locally common in New Jersey in bogs, fresh water
									marshes and in the coastal salt water-marshes in areas of Scirpus and high marsh plants near the mainland, but never out on the
									tidal flats where melanorhinus occurs. It has nowhere been found
									more than a few miles from the seacoast. * * The song is a high-pitched continuous
									buzzing, very much like that of N. retusus, but distinctly
									longer."
								
									Fig. 172. Female type. X 1.5. (After R. & H.)
								

								
									236. NEOCONOCEPHALUS MELANORHINUS
										(Rehn & Hebard), 1907, 304. Black-nosed Cone-head.

									Size small for the genus; form rather robust. Green or smoky brown with
										sides of fastigium and lateral carinæ of pronotum yellowish, sides of tarsi
										brown; dark form often with a narrow shining purplish-brown stripe on upper
										fourth of lateral lobes, this extending back along the principal veins of
										tegmina. Fastigium as described in key, narrowed from the middle forward, its
										upper surface sparsely punctate and with a fine median groove. Antennæ but
										little longer than the hind femora. Pronotum with lateral carinæ distinctly but
										feebly divergent backward, surface coarsely and closely punctate; lateral lobes
										slightly longer than deep, their lower margin oblique, its angle obtuse. Tegmina
										surpassing the hind femora about one-third their length, cross-veinlets
										prominent,  tips narrowly rounded. Front and
										middle femora unarmed beneath. Hind femora rather short, inner lower carina
										armed beneath with three to eight slender spines, outer one usually unarmed.
										Median notch of subgenital plate of male, broad, the styles hirsute, longer and
										stouter than in allied species. Ovipositor rather wide, almost straight. Length
										of body, ♂, 28, ♀, 32--35; of fastigium, ♂, 2.6--2.8, ♀, 2.9--3.1; of pronotum,
										♂, 6.9--8.5, ♀, 6.7--8; of tegmina, ♂ 29.3--37.5, ♀, 35--47.5; of hind femora,
										♂, 17.5--21.5, ♀, 19.3--27; of ovipositor, 16.3--22.8 mm. (Fig. 172.)
								

								Tuckerton and Cape May, N. Jer., Aug. 21--Sept. 1 (Davis) ;
									Ocean View, N. Jer. (Fox). A submaritime species described from
									a single female taken at Cedar Keys, Fla., but not elsewhere recorded from that
									State. Ranges from New Jersey along the Atlantic coast to Virginia and probably to
									Florida. Davis (1913, 177) took the first known male Sept. 1, 1907,
									at Tuckerton, N. Jer. R. & H. (1915, 378) give an account of the
									habits of melanorhinus as follows: 
										"This species was found in large numbers on the salt marsh tidal flats of New
											Jersey in areas of the salt meadow-grass, Spartina patens
											(Ait.), growing near one foot in height, but it was also found there rather
											abundant in areas of the low marsh spike-grass, Distichlis
												spicata (L.). When first met with in the summer of 1914, the males of a
											large colony were stridulating vigorously early on a somewhat cloudy
											afternoon; the song was a weak, high-pitched continuous buzzing, giving much
											the same vibrating resonance as a bit of rubber stretched in the wind. The
											note was very much weaker, richer in quality and less harsh than that of N. robustus. During daylight the singers invariably seemed
											further away than was the case, and time and again specimens were passed over
											until this fact was realized. At night the song was somewhat louder and very
											similar to that of N. lyristes, almost inappreciably higher
											pitched and more strident. When an individual was alarmed while singing the
											note ceased abruptly, the singer dropping or leaping to the ground and there
											remaining motionless, perfectly concealed. * * * The abundant green
											color-phase of this insect blends perfectly with the broader green leaves of
												Spartina patens, while the brown individuals of pale to
											very dark shades blend as perfectly with the brown and yellowish bases of the
											same plant and the bare dark muck beneath. The insects were seen to fly but
											short distances while singing individuals were observed to be resting
											motionless on the grass or climbing nervously about."
									
								

								
									237. NEOCONOCEPHALUS ENSIGER
										Harris), 1841, 131. The Sword-bearer.

									A species of small size and slender form. Green, rarely brown, often fading
										to dull yellow in drying; margins and tip of lower face of fastigium black, the
										tooth green; lateral carinæ of pronotum often yellow; tarsi, hind tibiæ and tip
										of ovipositor sometimes darker. Fastigium slender, slightly constricted in front
										of eyes, narrowed from the middle forward (Fig. 169, e.)
										Pronotum with lateral carinæ feebly divergent, disk finely punctate; humeral
										sinus shallow, very broadly rounded. Tegmina long and narrow. Stridulating vein
										of male long, feebly swollen (Fig. 170, c.) Front and middle
										femora usually unarmed. Length of body, ♂, 24--26,  ♀, 28--30; of fastigium, ♂, 3, ♀, 3.2--3.5; of pronotum, ♂ and ♀, 7--7.5; of
										tegmina, ♂, 37--42, ♀, 44--48; of hind femora, ♂, 20--21, ♀, 22--23; of
										ovipositor, 27.5--33 mm. (Figs. 173, 174 and Pl. V.)
								

								This is a rather common cone-head in northern Indiana, where it frequents the
									tall grasses along ditches and the borders of damp prairies. In the central and
									southern counties it is more scarce. Its known range extends from Norway, Me.,
									west and north across southern Ontario to Bismark, N. Dak., and Julesburg, Col.,
									and south and southwest to N. Carolina, Tennessee, Kansas and New Mexico. It is
									therefore the most widely distributed species of the genus in the United States.
									The female of ensiger has been recorded as depositing her eggs
									between the stem and the root leaves of Andropogon, a genus of
									tall coarse grasses which grow in dry, sandy localities. The young, hatched in
									May, reach maturity in central Indiana about July 10, though an adult male was
									taken in Vigo Co. on June 8.
								
									Fig. 173. Male. Natural size. (After Lugger.)
								
								Scudder, who has set the note to music, says of the song (1874, 368): "This
									insect has but a single song and stridulates only by night, or during cloudy
									weather. It begins its song as soon as the sky is obscured or the sun is near the
									horizon. It commences with a note like brw, then pauses an
									instant and immediately emits a rapid succession of sounds like chwi at the rate of about five per second, and continues them for an
									unlimited time. Davis (1887) likens its note to the syllable 'ik-ik-ik,' as if sharpening a saw, enlivening the low bushes, and
									particularly the cornpatch, as it seems to especially delight in perching near the
									top of a cornstalk and there giving forth its rather impulsive song."
								
									Fig. 174. Female. Natural size. (After Lugger.)
								
								Walker (1904a, 337) mentions ensiger as "a very
									common  insect in Ontario, ranging northward about
									as far as Muskoka and the Bruce Peninsula. It frequents fields, vacant lots and
									roadsides, which resound at night with the incessant monotonous song. During the
									summer and autumn * * * I have occasionally heard it stridulating in bright
									sunshine in the afternoon. It is the most easily approached of all our
									locustarians while thus engaged and is in fact difficult to find in any other way,
									hence the females are but seldom seen. Although it usually perches upon tall
									weeds, I have occasionally traced its song to a tree or vine, the insect being
									sometimes stationed at a considerable height."
								Allard (1911) says that in September near Oxford, Mass., ensiger is a very common species in all upland localities where it
									"prefers the fresh herbage of cultivated fields and is especially to be looked for
									in fields of corn. One oftentimes finds a noisy singer perched six or seven feet
									from the ground on a corn stalk or tassel. One also sometimes meets with it in
									large colonies among the luxuriant weeds and grasses of the lowlands. Its call
									notes are intermittent and follow each other rather briskly--tsip-tsip-tsip-tsip. They are rather soft and lisping, recalling to mind
									the staccato lisps of an Orchelimum."
								R. & H. (1915, 385) have placed the Conocephalus
										attenuatus
									Scudder (1872, 249) as a synonym of N. ensiger.

								
									238. NEOCONOCEPHALUS ROBUSTUS
										(Scudder), 1862, 449. Robust Cone-head.

									Size large, form robust. Pale green, rarely brown; fore and middle legs,
										hind tibiæ and tarsi and under surface greenish-yellow; sides of fastigium and
										lateral carinæ of pronotum yellowish; antennæ pale reddish-yellow. Fastigium
										with under surface immaculate,66 about as long as occiput, distinctly narrowed from middle to apex,
										its upper surface convex, tip narrowly rounded (Fig. 169, f.)
										Pronotum with lateral carinæ distinctly divergent, more strongly so in male,
										hind margins broadly rounded, surface finely punctate; lateral lobes almost as
										deep as long their lower margin oblique, obtusely angulate; humeral sinus
										shallow, broadly rounded. Tegmina broader than in allied species, surpassing
										hind femora about 13 mm. Stridulating field of male large, its main vein heavy.
										Fore and middle femora either unarmed beneath or with a few small spines. Hind
										femora long, slender, armed beneath with three to 12 rather short spines on each
										carina. Length of body, ♂, 30, ♀, 31--37; of fastigium, ♂, 2.7--3.6, ♀,
										3.1--3.7; of pronotum, ♂, 8--9.9, ♀, 7.3--8.3; of tegmina, ♂, 40--48, ♀, 43--54;
										of hind femora, ♂, 23--28, ♀, 24--28; of ovipositor, 25--31 mm. (Fig.
										175.)
								

								66This is true of all
									the specimens at hand and R. & H. (1915, 387) say that the vertex
									is always immaculate, but Scudder, in his original description, loc. cit., says of
									the type: "tubercle of the vertex tipped with black, not extending or but very
									faintly and narrowly, down the sides."


								

								Laporte Co., Ind., Oct. 15. Woodhaven, Long Island, N. Y., August (Davis). This is a xerophytic species, inhabiting sandy districts and is
									known only from along the Atlantic sea coast from Cape Cod, Mass., to
									Charlottesville, Va., and along the shores of the larger inland lakes. In
									Indiana it is known definitely only from Laporte County where it occurs quite
									frequently along the shores of Lake Michigan. R. & HI (1915, 390)
									state that typical robustus has not been taken over 60 miles
									from the coast, and without seeing the Laporte Co. specimens have assigned them to
										N. robustus crepitans; but they are identical in form of
									fastigium, size and all other characters with Scudder's type at Cambridge and with
									specimens from Long Island sent me by Davis as typical robustus.
									They also fully agree with the key and description of P & H. of that form.
								
									Fig. 175. Female. Natural size. (After Beutenmüller.)
								
								Scudder (1874, 376) describes the note of robustus
									as heard in New England thus: "This insect is exceedingly noisy and sings equally,
									and I believe similarly, by day and night. The song resembles that of the harvest
									fly, Cicada canicularis. It often lasts for many minutes, and
									seems, at a distance, to be quite uniform. On a nearer approach one can hear it
									swelling and decreasing in volume * * * and it is accompanied by a buzzing sound,
									quite audible near at hand, which resembles the humming of a bee or the droning of
									a bag-pipe."
								Davis (1887, 57) says that on Staten Island N.
										robustus "resides for the most part mid the grass on sandy ground near the
									sea shore, though an occasional individual finds its way inland. Along the sea
									beach they stridulate in early afternoon, especially if slightly cloudy, and when
									approached they have a curious fashion of dropping to the ground. I have often
									found them on such occasions actually standing on their heads in the soft sand,
									leaning against the grass stems which grow so close together  without in any way holding on to them. Whether this position is
									intentional or not, I cannot say, but certain it is that when looked for from
									above they offer the smallest extent of their bodies to view and may thus escape
									many enemies."
								Hart (1907) records robustus as occurring on waste
									sandy land iu central and southern Illinois, and has observed them resting, head
									downward, on a green stem, thus closely resembling a grass leaf. At Tappahannock
									and Charlottesville, Va., Fox (1917) found robustus
									frequent on dry land or at the borders of tidal marshes, occurring on tall grasses
									and herbage in fields, pastures and roadsides.

								
									238a. NEOCONOCEPHALUS ROBUSTUS CREPITANS
										(Scudder), 1862, 450. Crepitating Cone-head.

									Size very large for the genus; form very robust. Color of robustus, the brown form more often found than there. Differs mainly in
										the shape of the fastigium which is distinctly broader, but feebly narrowed on
										apical third, and with tip bluntly rounded (Fig. 169, g.) Disk of pronotum
										broader, that of female with lateral carinæ parallel or nearly so--not feebly
										divergent as in robustus. Hind femora proportionally longer,
										with spines of lower carinæ longer and more slender. Length of body, ♂, 38, ♀,
										410; of fastigium, ♂, 2.7--3.6, ♀, 3--3.8; of pronotum, ♂, 8.2--10.8, ♀,
										8.3--9.3; of tegmina, ♂, 39--53, ♀, 49.4--58.4; of hind femora, ♂, 22.8--31, ♀,
										28.8--35.1; of ovipositor, 27--36.9 mm.
								

								Vigo Co., Ind., Aug. 8, one male; St. Louis, Mo.; Sedgewick Co., Kansas, August,
									taken at electric light by E. S. Tucker. In addition to the single Vigo Co. male
									this form is known from Indiana only from Lake Maxinkuckee (R. & H.,
										1915, 394) and from Tippecanoe County, where Fox (1915) took
									two specimens in the corn plats of Purdue University farm on August 26. In Florida
									it has been recorded from Warchard, Levy Co., Atlantic Beach, Hastings and Fort
									Barrancas. Scudder's types of crepitans were from Texas and
									Nebraska and its range is given by R. & H. (1915, 392) as
									extending from "extreme southern New Jersey over the entire coastal plain of the
									southeastern United States as far south as Hastings, Fla. Westward it is widely
									distributed over the entire Mississippi Valley region as far as White Bear Lake,
									Minn.; Garden City, Kan.; Clarendon and Cisco, Texas, and Nugent, Miss." They
									state (1915, 389) that in the vicinity of Ocean View, N. Jer., and on the Delaware
									River near Philadelphia intergrading specimens between N.
										robustus and N. crepitans occur and on the basis of this
									intergradation they place crepitans as a race of robustus.
								Davis (1913, 178) states that at Erma, N. Jer. the song of crepitans (so-called by R. & H.) "while it consisted of the
									same  continuous whirr as in robustus, was not nearly so ear-splitting." Commenting on this R.
										& H. (1915, 390) attribute the difference to, possible climatic
									conditions and state that "in the west, in the center of its typical distribution,
									we have heard it singing with the full burring, buzzing whirr which is
									characteristic of and fully as loud as, the song of typical robustus."

								
									239. NEOCONOCEPHALUS CAUDELLIANUS
										(Davis), 1905, 289. Caudell's Cone-head.

									"A robust species, either green or brown, the tegmina often flecked with
										black. Fastigium obtuse, its sides with a faint yellow line, beneath which there
										is a black line extending from the base to the base of the antennæ, or nearly
										so; lower basal tooth blunt but distinct. Anterior and middle femora unarmed
										beneath; posterior femora armed beneath on both carinæ with numerous spines."
											(Davis.) "Closely resembles N. robustus
										but the vertex very decidedly shorter with the sides usually very weakly
										convergent distad and apex rotundato-truncate, more so than in typical robustus crepitans. Stridulating field of male slightly more
										elongate with veins heavier than in robustus (Fig. 170, d.) Green color distinctly richer than in that species."
												(R. & H. 1915, 395.) Length of body, ♂,
										33; of fastigium, ♂, 2.4--3.3, ♀, 3.1--3.2; of pronotum, ♂ and ♀, 8--8.9; of
										tegmina, ♂, 42--47.9, ♀, 54.5; of hind femora, ♂, 23.6--28.9, ♀, 28--31.5; of
										ovipositor, 33--35.4 mm.
								

								Jamesburg, Cold Spring and Erma, N. Jer., Aug. 16--Sept. 18 (Davis.) The known range of this species extends from New Jersey to Atmore,
									Ala., but it appears to be nowhere very common. The three male types were found in
									a cranberry bog at Lakehurst, N Jer., and of them Davis says: "The song is a slow
										zip-zip-zip, repeated many times and much resembling that of
										Conocephalus exiliscanorus of the salt meadows." No females
									were found until 1910, when two were taken by Davis (1911) at Cold
									Spring, N. Jer. Of males taken near Tuckerton he wrote: "They were in a dry field
									and some of them, when disturbed, flew several hundred feet and lit in cedar
									trees. This was an unusual proceeding for they generally seek safety by dropping
									to the ground and hiding among the thick vegetation."
								R. & H. (1915, 396) say: "The present insect is very widely
									distributed not only along the coastal strip in truck gardens, waste fields, and
									marshy fresh water areas, but also in boggy portions of the adjacent pine barrens
									and in fields there located. Usually no more than three or four widely scattered
									individuals are to be heard at one time. The song is loud, resonant and
										constant--dzeeeet-dzeeeet-dzeeeet, always the same, not rising
									and falling, the notes given deliberately, counted as averaging twelve to ten
									seconds. The males would continue their loud song 'fearlessly  until approached to within about eight feet, then ceasing abruptly
									they would fly into the darkness with a swift powerful zigzagging flight. In alert
									swiftness this species and N. velox are distinctive."
								Aside from the black margined under surface of the fastigium this insect is an
									exact replica of a small N. robustus crepitans, the form of the
									cones being identical. That species is said to sometimes have the fastigium "very
									briefly and narrowly darkened ventrad." I would consider caudellianus to be only a form of crepitans were it not
									for the difference in song as noted by Davis and R. & H.

								
									240. NEOCONOCEPHALUS PALUSTRIS
										(Blatchley), 1893c, 89. Marsh Cone-head.

									Males small for the genus, form rather slender; females larger, more robust
										and with abdomen distinctly enlarged. General color of females usually a bright
										grass green; of males more often brown varying in shade; fastigium of green form
										tipped with dull yellow, which extends half way down the sides; labrum and
										apical segments of all the palpi rose red tinged with violet; antennæ and apical
										third of ovipositor reddish-brown; tarsi somewhat infuscated. Fastigium short,
										stout, apical third feebly narrowed, tip bluntly rounded (Fig. 169, i); under surface with a low obtuse carina, the usual basal tooth
										represented by a small blunt tubercle. Pronotum with lateral carinæ feebly
										divergent, hind margin very broadly rounded; lateral lobes longer than deep,
										their lower margin oblique, its hind angle obtuse; humeral sinus very shallow.
										Tegmina very slender, tapering but little to the narrowly rounded tips.
										Stridulating field of male small, broad, basal three-fourths of stridulating
										vein coarse, apical fourth very weak (Fig. 170, e.) Fore and
										middle femora usually with 1--3 short, stout spines on apical third of lower
										outer carina. Hind legs short, tibiæ but little more than half as long as closed
										tegmina; femora with 3--9 spines on each of the lower carinæ. Ovipositor
										slightly shorter than hind tibiæ, broadest at a point about two-thirds the
										distance from base, thence tapering regularly to a sharp apex. Length of body,
										♂, 24--26, ♀, 27-35; of fastigium, ♂, 2.3--3, ♀, 2.6--4; of pronotum, ♂, 6.3--8,
										♀, 5.6-8.7; of tegmina, ♂, 28--34, ♀, 29--45; of hind femora, ♂, 16--19, ♀,
										16--25; of ovipositor, 16--21 mm. (Fig. 176.)
								
								
									Fig. 176. a, Female. X 1.3; b, head of same
										from above. (Original.)
								

								Vigo Co., Ind., Oct. 24, type female (W. S. B.) ; Alexandria,
										 Va., Sept. 2 and Raleigh, N. Car., Aug. 4 (Davis). This trim-bodied cone-head was described from a single
									female taken Oct. 2, 1891, from the fallen grasses on the margins of a large
									lowland pond in Vigo County. This pond, now extinct, was surrounded on all sides
									by heavy timber, and its margins yielded a number of interesting Orthoptera found
									nowhere else in the county. Among them were Leptysma
										marginicollis (Serv.), Paroxya hoosieri (B1.), Anaxipha exigua (Say), Phylloscirtus pulchellus
									(Uhler) and Conocephalus nigropleurus (Bruner). The first four
									mentioned are insects of a southern range, and N. palustris, as
									predicted at the time, has been found to be more common southward. Elsewhere in
									Indiana N. palustris is known only from Tippecanoe County, where
										Fox (1915, 30) found it in August and September of regular
									occurrence but not especially frequent in the open bogs of the rice cut-grass, Homalocenchrus oryzoides (L.).
								Outside of Indiana N. palustris has been taken at various
									stations in Pennsylvania and New Jersey, near Columbus and Castalia, Ohio,
									Washington, D. C., Tappahannock, Va., Raleigh, N. Car., Clarksville, Tenn., and
									New Orleans, La. Of its habits in New Jersey and Pennsylvania R. & H.
										(1915, 400) have written: "The males were found to be at night very alert
									and shy, much the most difficult of the species to take excepting N.
										caudellianus. The method of escape is, however, to hide with agility in the
									tangles of vegetation in which the species is usually found, rather than to seek
									safety in flight. The song is a continuous dzeeeeeeeeeee, very
									high pitched and very weak."
								"The series taken at Cornwells, Pa., was captured during the day by beating the
									tangled vegetation, and particularly a small area of Panicularia
										septentrionalis in a marshy spot. In the latter plant the females were
									exceedingly numerous, nearly all being taken there. In the daytime individuals are
									sluggish, moving but slowly about, but the clinging powers were found to be
									remarkable and the use of the spines on the limbs for this purpose was quickly
									apparent."
								About Tappahannock, Va., Fox (1917) found N.
										palustris common in tidal marsh on the tall marsh-grass, Spartina cynosuroides (L.), less frequent on the three-square rush, Scirpus americanus (Pers.) ; also on cat-tails and in moist
									depressions filled with succulent grasses at the heads of gulleys."

								
									241. NEOCONOCEPHALUS VELOX
										Rehn & Hebard, 1914c, 402. Swift Cone-head.

									Size medium for the genus; form compressed, slender, elongate. Pale brown or
										tawny olive; head with a median stripe of darker brown, this  dividing and extending back along the lateral
										carinæ; tegmina with numerous very small, scattered brown spots; spines of the
										femora and tibiæ tipped with brown. Fastigium constricted at base, widest at
										middle, then feebly narrowed to the rounded apex. Pronotum with lateral carinæ
										very obtuse, feebly divergent, both its disk and the occiput finely
										rugose-punctate; lateral lobes much longer than deep, their lower margin broadly
										rounded into the front and hind ones; humeral sinus broad, very shallow, male,
										much deeper, female. Tegmina elongate, surpassing the hind femora about 16 mm,
										tip of ovipositor, 5 mm.; stridulating field of male rather small and broad, its
										main vein heavy, the others very weak. Front and middle femora armed beneath on
										the outer carina with two or three small spines. Hind femora very slender, armed
										beneath with six to eight slender spines on each carina. Subgenital plate of
										male with median notch narrow, the styles stouter and broader than in any other
										species, their tips bluntly rounded. Length of body, ♂, 33--40; of fastigium
										2.6--3; of pronotum, 8.7--9; of tegmina, 40--42; of hind femora, 23--25 mm.
										(Fig. 177.)
								
								
									Fig. 177. Male type. X 1.3. (After R. & H.)
								

								LaGrange and Parish, Fla., June--July 31; Logtown and Ratliff, Miss. (Davis.) Recorded only from Homestead, Fla., and Billy's Island,
									Ga., June-=July, the former being the type locality. R. & IIH. (1915,
										399) state that: "The song of this very shy and vigorous species is a
									loud and continuous buzzing. It is apparently a native of the undergrowth of the
									pine forests of the extreme southeastern United States."

								
									242. NEOCONOCEPHALUS RETUSUS
										(Scudder), 1879a, 93. Round-tipped Cone-head.

									Size small for the genus; form slender. Color usually green, often pale
										brown with tegmina faintly maculate; fastigium with margins yellowish, its apex
										only with a curved black line on under surface; lateral carinæ of pronotum often
										yellowish; tibiæ, tarsi and apical half of ovipositor usually more or less
										fuscous. Fastigium shorter than the inter-ocular width, convex above, its sides
										subparallel, (Fig. 169, k,) basal tooth obtuse. Pronotum
										coarsely and thickly punctate, transverse sulcus distinct, metazona three times
										as long as prozona, hind margin very broadly rounded, lateral carinæ feebly
										divergent, female, rather strongly so, male; lateral lobes with lower margin
										oblique, its hind angle obsolete, hind margin broadly rounded; humeral sinus
										broad, shallow. Tegmina relatively short, surpassing the hind femora only 8--10
										mm., their tips rather broadly rounded. Front and middle femora usually unarmed
										beneath, rarely with a single small spine. Hind femora with 2--6 small spines on
										each of the lower carinæ. Notch of subgenital plate of male broad, the styles
										slender,  acute. Ovipositor much surpassing the
										tegmina. Length of body, ♂, 26--28, ♀, 29--31; of fastigium, ♂ and ♀, 1.8--2.2;
										of pronotum, ♂, 6.8--7.5, ♀, 5.3--7.8; of tegmina, ♂, 29--34, ♀, 30--42; of hind
										femora, ♂, 18.5--21, ♀, 21--27; of ovipositor, 27--39 mm.
								

								Putnam Co., Ind., Aug. 27--Sept. 18; Washington, D. C., Aug. 23; Norfolk and
									Tappahannock, Va., Aug. 23--Oct. 8; Staten Island, N. Y., Sept. 3. The Indiana
									specimens were taken from a marshy spot in a blue-grass pasture, the first one in
									1914, and only females are so far known from that State. In Florida it is recorded
									only from Jacksonville, St. Augustine, Daytona and Gainesville and probably
									inhabits only the northern third of the State. Scudder's type was a female from
									Georgia and the known range of the species extends from Connecticut west to
									central Indiana and St. Louis, Mo., and southwest to northern Florida and Nugent,
									Miss.
								R. & H. (1915, 403) describe the song and habits of retusus as follows: "The present insect is an inhabitant of the grasses in
									waste fields, along the borders of marshes and in the drier portions of the
									marshes proper, and is usually to be found in large numbers. The song is of the
									exact pitch of that of N. lyristes but weaker, a continuous zeeeeeeeeee. In New Jersey the species is the last of the genus to
									appear, reaching the adult condition toward the end of August." R. & H.
										(1915, 401) have placed the Conocephalus atlanticus
									Bruner (1899, 38) as a synonym. They state that the Conocephalus triops and C. dissimilis of many American
									authors also refer rightfully to retusus, triops being a larger,
									more robust form with shorter ovipositor and shorter, flatter, broader
									fastigium.

								
									243. NEOCONOCEPHALUS TRIOPS
										(Linnæus), 1758, 430. Broad-tipped Cone-head.

									Size rather large; form robust. Green or brown; tip of fastigium beneath and
										often the tips of mandibles black; lateral carinæ of pronotum and margins of
										fastigium rarely yellowish; brown form often with a purplish stripe along the
										upper third of lateral lobes and humeral vein of tegmina; under surface of hind
										femora and tibiæ very dark in some individuals. Fastigium as described in key.
										Pronotum broader and smoother than in retusus; humeral sinus
										broader; lateral lobes deeper in proportion to their length. Front and middle
										femora unarmed or with a few small spines. Hind femora with six to ten very
										small spines on each lower carina. Ovipositor but slightly surpassing the tips
										of tegmina, its apical third feebly decurved. Length of body, ♂, 27.5--32, ♀,
										32--36; of fastigium, ♂ and ♀, 2.1--2.6; of pronotum, ♂ and ♀, 8.7--9.7; of
										tegmina, ♂, 40--44, ♀, 43--53; of hind femora, ♂, 22--24, ♀, 23--26; of
										ovipositor, 21--25 mm.
								


								

								Ormond, Gainesville, West Palm Beach, Lake Istokpoga, Cape Sable and Dunedin,
									Fla. (W. S. B.); Mobile, Ala. (Loding);
									Agricultural College, Miss. (Weed) ; October-March. Recorded
									from numerous places in Florida, and occurs everywhere throughout the State and on
									the southern keys. These records have been made under different names, viz., Conocephalus triops (Linn.), C. fusco-striatus
									Redt., C. mexicanus Sauss. and C. nietoi
									Sauss., the second and third being synonyms of triops and the
									fourth belonging rightfully to an extralimital species of Homorocoryphus.
								My first field acquaintance with C. triops was made at Ormond
									on March 16, 1899. These I determined as C. nietoi Sauss. by
									comparison with Mississippi specimens which I had received under that name from H.
									C. Weed and they were so recorded by me (1902, 70). About Dunedin N.
										triops occurs in small numbers throughout the winter, frequenting for the
									most part the dense masses of fallen grasses about the borders of marshes and
									ponds. but sometimes noted amidst the wire-grass of open pine woods. There as
									elsewhere the males are mostly brown and the females green, there being but one
									brown female and one green male among the 24 specimens at hand. I have never seen
									it fly when disturbed, but it is an adept at burrowing and also at remaining
									perfectly motionless by the side of or on some object with whose hue its own color
									blends. On the other hand, Hebard states (R. & H., 1904) that at
									Thomasville, Ga., the brown fusco-striatus phase of this species
									"appeared early in March and was soon plentiful in the woods, especially in the
									broom sedge in damp locations. The speciimens, when pursued, always took to wing
									and made off with a strong but zigzag flight, never alighting until quite a
									distance had been traversed."
								N. triops is found, say R. & H. (1915, 408)
									"almost everywhere in the southern United States, inhabiting the forest
									undergrowth, fields and semi-marsh situations. Over most of its range it is one of
									the earliest Tettigoniids to appear, the adults being found in south Georgia in
									late March." Its known range extends from the vicinity of Washington, D. C., south
									and west to Stillwater, Oklahoma, Central Texas, Arizona and Los Angeles, Cal.
										Redtenbacher (1891, 399) gives also for his fusco-striatus, Missouri, Cuba, Port Au Prince and Quita.
								Allard (1910a) has given an excellent account of the habits and song
									of the brown color phase of N. triops which is, in part, as
									follows: 
										"The careful observer of insect stridulations who visits the upper  Piedmont region of Georgia in March or April,
											will hear, during warm evenings, a loud, continuous, noisy buzz, sometimes in
											the tallest pines and oaks, or again in the weeds and low herbage of fields.
											This is the stridulation of a cone-headed grasshopper known as Conocephalus fusco-striatus Redt. In this region the notes of this
											interesting locust together with the familiar trillings of the ubiquitous
											field cricket, Gryllus pennsylvanicus Burm., are among the
											earliest insect stridulations to be heard in spring. Here it is the only Conocephalus to be heard in early spring, and, judging from
											the individuals in song during warm evenings, it is a fairly common
											species.
										"This cone-head is strictly a nocturnal insect and stridulates most freely
											during warm, moonlight evenings. The note is a loud, harsh, snappy z-z-z-z-z-z continued for many minutes at a time. Within a few
											feet of the stridulating insect a strong, penetrating buzzing hum is
											noticeable, attended by almost continuous harsh, snappy, unmusical
											creptitations which are audible for long distances, and constitute the notes
											usually heard by the distant observer. It is somewhat difficult, especially
											for those who have not studied insect-stridulations, to locate one of these
											insects in a big field. Its powerful, penetrating notes seem to permeate the
											herbage on every hand, frequently causing no little bewilderment in the mind
											of one who attempts to locate the musician too carelessly. It is a very shy
											insect and cannot readily be captured unless approached with considerable
											care. It takes to wing readily, and flies long distances in the fields or from
											tree to tree."
									
								

								Of the two synonyms of N. triops above noted, the name mexicanus Sauss. (1859, 208) has usually been given
									by American authors to the green form, and fusco-striatus
									Redt. (1891, 399) to the brown one. R. & H. (1914c,
										402) first placed the latter as a synonym of mexicanus
									and in 1915 referred both names to triops. Other synonyms of triops as stated by them are Conocephalus
										obtusus
									Burm. (1838, 705), C. dissimilis
									Serv., (1839, 518), C. dissimilis
									Harris (1862, 164), C. hebes
									Scudd. (1879a, 92), and Neoconocephalus mexicanus
									var. tibialis
									Karney (1907, 33).
							

							
								IV. HOMOROCORYPHUS
									Karney, 1912, 36. (Gr., "contiguous" + "vertex")

								Species of large size and robust form, very similar in structure and general
									facies to those of Neoconocephalus, with which they were
									formerly grouped. Fastigium slightly shorter than width of interocular space, its
									apical half convex, swollen, bluntly rounded; antennæ longer than body, very
									slender; pronotum with posterior lobe very short, lateral carinæ subobsolete, hind
									margin truncate, lateral lobes longer than deep, humeral sinus distinct but
									shallow; tegmina variable in length; wings shorter than or equal to tegmina; fore
									and middle femora short, subequal, armed with only one or two short spines on
									lower, outer carinæ; hind  femora short, but
									slightly surpassing the abdomen, female, their lower carinæ armed with three to
									seven short, stout spines. Male with apex of supra-anal plate very broadly concave
									or emarginate, the projection each side acute; cerci much as in Neoconocephalus; subgenital plate with a narrow median notch; styles
									short, broad, concave above, their tips bluntly rounded. Ovipositor more than
									one-half longer than hind femora, slightly widened and feebly decurved beyond the
									middle, its apex very acute. Other characters as in Neoconocephalus.
								But one species of the genus occurs in the United States.

								
									244. HOMOROCORYPHUS MALIVOLANS
										(Scudder), 1879a, 90.

									Pale brown, the female darker; disk of pronotum with a narrow dark brown
										stripe each side, sometimes almost wholly blackish-brown; tarsi and hind tibiæ
										often in great part infuscated. Occiput and sides of head rather coarsely and
										very irregularly punctate. Disk and sides of pronotum rugosely punctate, more
										strongly so in female. Tegmina dimorphic in length, in the more common
										brachypterous form not reaching tips of hind femora, slightly longer than
										abdomen, male, shorter than abdomen, female. their tips acute or narrowly
										rounded; in macropterous form surpassing hind femora 12--15 mm. and extending
										far beyond tip of abdomen in both sexes, their apices rounded; wings usually
										shorter than tegmina, equal to latter in macropterous individuals. Other
										characters as given under the generic heading. Length of body, ♂, 27--29, ♀,
										39--43; of fastigium, ♂, 2; ♀, 2.7; of pronotum, ♂, 7, ♀, 9--10; of tegmina,
										short-winged, ♂, 19-20, ♀, 23--24; long-winged, ♂, 40, ♀, 47--50; of hind
										femora, ♂, 17, ♀, 22.5--24; of ovipositor, 37--38.5 mm. (Fig. 178.)
								

								
									Fig. 178. Short-winged female. Natural size. (After R. & H.)
								

								Tappahannock, Va., July 14 (Fox); Citrus Center, Fla. (Davis). Scudder's type was a unique male taken at Cedar Keys,
									Fla., June 4 by E. A. Schwarz. This was the only specimen known until 1905, when
									R. & H. described a single female from Chokoloskee, Fla., under the name of
										Conocephalus hoplomachus. A second male was taken by them July
									12, 1912 "from saw-grass growing in knee-high water on the edge of the everglades"
									at Detroit, Fla., and was properly placed (1914c, 405) under Scudder's name. The
									only other Florida locality recorded is Citrus Center, where Davis secured two
									males on May 2, but he has a male taken at Parish, August 25, in which the tegmina
									are 40 mm. in length.
								Outside of Florida the species is recorded only from Wilmington,  N. Car., Tappahannock, Va. and Victoria, Texas. At
									Tappahannock Fox (1917) took 29 males and 12 females, July 13-Aug.
									18, which he found mostly "in dense stands of the tall marshgrass, Spartina cynosuroides (L.), in tidal marshes, a few occurring in briery
									thickets. on nearby knolls. Observed ovipositing in the Spartina." It probably occurs sparingly over the areas of the marshes
									covered by this and allied grasses and reeds all along the Atlantic coast from
									Virginia to extreme southern Florida and also along the gulf coast of Florida on
									which the type was taken. As Scudder has noted, the male, on account of its short
									tegmina and blunt rounded fastigium, resembles somewhat a large Orchelimum.
								Caudell (1918a) records a macropterous female of H.
										malivolans from Victoria, Texas, in which both tegmina and wings are 50 mm.
									in length, thus giving the "insect an appearance of being larger and more bulky
									than its brachypterous relatives."
							
						

						
							Subfamily IV. CONOCEPHALINÆ. THE MEADOW GRASSHOPPERS.

							
								
									"The poetry of earth is never dead:
									When all the birds are faint with the hot sun,
									And hide in cooling trees, a voice will run
									From hedge to hedge about the new mown mead:
									That is the grasshopper's--he takes the lead
									In summer luxury--he has never done
									With his delights; for when tired out with fun
									He rests at ease beneath some pleasant weed."--Keats.
								
							

							Species of small or medium size, having the vertex projected upward and forward in
								the form of a blunt rounded tubercle, concave on each side to accommodate the basal
								joint of antennæ; eyes rather large, subglobose; antennæ very slender, tapering,
								often of excessive length; pronotum with not more than one transverse sulcus;
								prosternum toothed or with two slender spines, rarely unarmed; tegmina usually well
								developed but often dimorphic in the same species, sometimes reduced to mere pads,,
								or even wanting, their color usually green, rarely pale brown; wings usually present
								and fully developed, absent or very minute in Odontoxiphidium and
								much aborted in some species of Conocephalus. Other characters
								much as in the Copiphorinæ.
							To this sub-family belong those slender-bodied green grasshoppers,  with long, tapering antennæ which are so common in
								summer and early autumn in damp meadows and prairies and along the margins of
								streams, ditches and ponds. They are mostly terrestrial in their habits, and the
								color of their bodies corresponds closely with that of the stems and leaves of the
								sedges and grasses among which they dwell, thus protecting them from the sight of
								the few birds which frequent a like locality. Their songs, produced in the same
								manner as those of their larger cousins, the katydids, are as frequent by day as by
								night, but are usually soft and low in comparison with those of the former. Their
								day song differs from that of the night, and, says Scudder (1868, 116)
								: "It is curious to observe these little creatures suddenly changing from the day to
								the night song at the mere passing of a cloud and returning to the old note when the
								sky is clear. By imitating the two songs in the daytime the grasshoppers can be made
								to represent either at will; at night they have but one note."
							The eggs of the Conocephalinæ are deposited between the stems and root leaves of
								grass, in the pith of twigs, or sometimes in the turnip-shaped galls so common on
								certain species of willows. The ovipositor, being thus used as a piercer, has in
								time developed into a slender and sharp pointed instrument which is but little
								curved and is frequently of excessive length, in some species being over twice as
								long as the remainder of the body.
							The subfamily is represented in the eastern United States by three genera, the
								literature of especial interest regarding them being as follows: Redtenbacher,
									1891; Blatchley, 1893, 1903; Scudder, 1898b;
									McNeill, 1900a; Hancock, 1904, 1911; Karney,
									1913; Rehn & Hebard, 1915a, 1915b, 1916.

							
								KEY TO EASTERN GENERA OF CONCEPHALINÆ.

								a. Cerci of males more or less curved, swollen at middle or base and
									bearing a single tooth; tegmina present in both sexes.
								b. Prosternal spines rather long cylindrical, slender; ovipositor stouter,
									usually distinctly falcate or upcurved; tegmina fully developed, surpassing
									abdomen in all our species; body more robust, usually more than 18 mm. in length.
										I. ORCHELIMUM, p. 535.
								bb. Prosternal spines very short or wholly wanting; ovipositor slender,
									straight or nearly so; tegmina usually abbreviated, shorter than abdomen in most
									species; body more slender, usually less than 17 mm. in length. II. CONOCEPHALUS, p. 562.
								aa. Cerci of males long, slender, subcylindrical or subdepressed and with
									both a post-median lateral and a basal dorsal tooth; tegmina and wings absent or
									the former concealed, in female, tegmina present but very short in male. III. ODONTOXIPHIDIUM, p. 584.
							


							

							
								I. ORCHELIMUM
									Serville, 1839, 522. (Gr., "to dance" +  "meadow.") THE LARGER MEADOW-GRASSHOPPERS.

								Tettigoniids below the medium in size and possessing the characters of the
									subfamily above noted. They also have the face short, moderately oblique, its
									dorsal portion prolonged upward at middle to meet the ventral spine of fastigium;
									pronotum short, usually smooth, more or less saddle-shaped, the metazona prolonged
									backward to form a posterior lobe, its hind margin usually broadly rounded;
									lateral lobes deeper than long, their front margin oblique, lower one usually
									straight and rounded into the hind one, the latter usually with the adjoining
									lower portion bulging to form what is called the "convex callosity;" humeral sinus
									usually present but varying much in width and depth; tegmina narrow, usually
									strongly tapering, the apical width much less than the basal, almost always
									slightly shorter than wings; stridulating organ of male well developed, its veins
									prominent, the speculum transparent on both tegmina; front and middle femora
									subequal in length, unarmed beneath; hind femora slender but stouter than in Conocephalus, their under surface either armed with a few short
									spines or wholly unarmed. Male with apex of supra-anal plate emarginate and
									usually deflexed; cerci stout, varying much in form, armed near middle with a
									single stout tooth; subgenital plate with apex U-or V-shaped, its styles short
									one-jointed, set in sockets at the upper outer margins of the concavity.
									Ovipositor stout, rather broad, its apical half usually distinctly upcurved; when
									straight or nearly so above, the apical third, except in militare, tapering or curved on underside to a fine point.
								This genus is very close to Conocephalus (Xiphidium) and is, by
									some writers, united with it. Redtenbacher (1891, 494) placed it as a
									subgenus of Xiphidium, separating its members from those of Xiphidium proper by the same characters as did Serville. The
									species have a general facies or appearance which enables one after a little
									experience to separate them at a glance from those of Conocephalus, but as R. & H. (1915b, 156) have well said,
									"when the characters of the two are compared, the variation in each leaves us
									unable to state a single absolute difference." As noted in the key to genera, the
									larger, heavier body, longer prosternal spines, and shorter and broader falcate
									ovipositor are the chief distinguishing characters of Orchelimum. The tegmina are  more uniform in
									length, and the color, while of slightly different shades of brown or green in the
									same species, according to season and habitat, does not run to the extremes of
									variation as in Conocephalus.
								The generic name, Orchelimum, the literal meaning of which is
									"I dance in the meadows," is a most appropriate one, for low, moist meadows
									everywhere swarm with these insects from July to November; and though waltzes and
									quadrilles are probably not indulged in, yet the music and song, the wooing and
									love-making which are the natural accompaniments of those amusements, are ever
									present, and make the short season of mature life of the participants a seemingly
									happy one.
								Allard (1910b) says: "In attempting to capture the Orchelimums it is amusing to observe their attempts to hide by moving
									around the stalk of grass they are resting on. As the hand moves toward the stalk
									to grasp one, the wary creature always moves to the opposite side so as to keep
									the stalk directly between it and the observer, just as a gray squirrel moves
									around a tree trunk to escape the hunter. In this protective movement it hugs the
									grass stem as close as possible, stretching out its long, slender hind legs behind
									it, until they are parallel with and almost flat against the grass stem."
								Redtenbacher recognized but eleven species of his subgenus Orchelimum, ten of these from the United States. Scudder (1900,
										73) admitted 18 to his catalogue. Kirby (1906, 371)
									increased the number to 24. R. & H. in their synopsis (1915a,) founded a new
									genus for one of these, restricted the genus Orchelimum to North
									America and Mexico, described five new species and relegated so many of those
									recognized by Redtenbacher, Scudder and Kirby to synonymy that, in the end, they
									had only 17 North American species treated as valid in their work.
								In my opinion the synonymy of the genus is even yet in a very unsettled state. R.
									& H. made a laudable attempt to straighten it out but their conclusions
									regarding the older names of the European writers were based on the very brief
									descriptions of those writers and not on an examination and comparison with the
									types. For that reason I cannot agree with all their conclusions and synonymy.
								The species of Orchelimum are so numerous and so alike in
									general appearance that it is very difficult to prepare a key which is
									satisfactory and at the same time easily followed. R. & H. have shown that one
									of the major characters used by both McNeill 
									(1900a) and myself (1903, 382) in our former treatment of the genus, viz., the
									presence or absence of spines on the under side of the hind femora, is unreliable
									as it is variable in the same species. They have used instead the form of the male
									cerci as their principal differential character and have supplemented this with
									other characters pertaining to the form of lateral lobes of pronotum, form and
									size of ovipositor of female, etc. Their keys are open to the objection, that they
									contain a number of merely comparative terms such as "form more robust" and
									"ovipositor with general form less arcuate," as against "form more slender" and
									"ovipositor with general form more arcuate." Such terms, as I long ago discovered
									by personal experience, are confusing and misleading to a student who has only a
									few specimens at hand. Aside from this, the keys in their synopsis are so much
									better than any previously known that I have used them as the basis for the one
									given below, modifying them here and there in sequence and by the addition of any
									fixed character which, in my opinion, would make them more simple and more easily
									understood by the beginner. On account of the great confusion in the synonymy of a
									number of the species, it is impossible in giving the distribution and notes on
									habits to always refer each record made by past collectors to the species to which
									it rightfully belongs. I have, however, where following the synonymy as given by
									R. & H., assigned the notes and records of synonyms to the species under which
									they are placed by those authors.
								Fifteen species and two varieties of Orchelimum are herein
									recognized as occurring in the territory covered by this work. For convenience of
									treatment these are first separated into two groups as follows: 
										KEY TO GROUPS OF EASTERN SPECIES OF ORCIIELIMUM.

										a. Cerci of male of moderate length, the apical portion behind the
											median tooth not much if any longer than the basal portion in front of it
											(Fig. 179); ovipositor in the majority of the species not dis-distinctly more
											than half as long as hind femora and (except in gladiator)
											with upper margin always evidently and regularly curved. GROUP I. p. 537.
										aa. Cerci more elongate, the apical portion behind the tooth
											distinctly longer than the portion in front of it (Fig. 183); ovipositor
											(except rarely in concinnum) distinctly more than half as
											long as hind femora, its upper margin either straight or curved. GROUP II. p. 551.
									

								
									GROUP I. THE AGILE GROUP OF ORCHELIMUM.

									This group as defined above contains eight species. In general its members are
										larger and more robust than those of Group II.


									

									
										Fig. 179. Dorsal and lateral outlines of left cercus of male Orchelimum, X 10. a, agile; b, erythrocephalum; c, vulgare; d, gladiator; e, pulchellum; f, nigripes; g, calcaratum; h, bullatum; n=node on cercus of vulgare. (a--g, After
											R. & H.; h, original.)
									

									
										KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF GROUP I OF ORCHELIMUM.

										a. Tooth of male cercus not longer than apical portion of the shaft
											and not strongly aciculate (Fig. 179, a--f.)
										b. Upper surface of male cercus without a distinct sinuate carina;
											ovipositor (except in gladiator) not or very little more
											than half as long as hind femora (Fig. 180.)
										c. Cercus distinctly depressed, its tooth flattened at base and set at
											right angles to the shaft; ovipositor deeper at base than at any other point;
											humeral sinus distinct but shallow (Fig. 180, a.) 245. AGILE.
										cc. Cercus not distinctly depressed, its tooth more or less thickened
											at base; ovipositor deepest at some point beyond the base.
										d. Cercus without a rounded tubercle or node above and between the
											tooth and apex; head more or less reddish; speculum of stridulating field of
											male longer than broad (Fig. 182, b.) 246.
													ERYTHROCEPHALUM.
										Cercus with a rounded tubercle or node above on apical half
											(Fig. 179, c, n); head rarely reddish; speculum subquadrate
											(Fig. 182, a.)
										e. Humeral sinus of lateral lobes distinct (Fig. 180, c); tooth of cercus shorter than apical half of shaft, tip of shaft
											bluntly rounded (Fig. 179, c); ovipositor less than half the
											length of hind femora, its upper margin distinctly curved. 247. VULGARE.
										ee. Humeral sinus scarcely evident; tooth of cercus as long as apical
											half of shaft, the tip of shaft subacute; ovipositor almost two-thirds as long
											as hind femora, its upper margin nearly straight (Figs. 179, 180, d.) 248. GLADIATOR.
										bb. Upper surface of cercus with a distinct obtuse sinuate carina;
											ovipositor more than half the length of hind femora.
										f. Humeral sinus distinct; tibiæ not blackish; notch of male
											supra-anal plate U-shaped, as broad or broader than deep; tooth  of cercus distinctly shorter than that portion of
											shaft behind it, its apical half straight or nearly so (Figs. 179, 180, e.)
										g. Outer carina of hind femur in both sexes armed on apical third with
											two to eight stout spines; form slender; tegmina in female scarcely reaching
											the tip of ovipositor. 249. PULCHELLUM.
										gg. Outer carina of hind femur unarmed in male, with one or two minute
											spines on apical third, female; form much stouter; tegmina of female
											distinctly surpassing the tip of ovipositor. 250 BULLATUM.
										ff. Humeral sinus almost obsolete; tibiæ all blackish; notch of
											supra-anal plate V-shaped, deeper than broad; tooth of cercus almost as long
											as the portion behind it, distinctly inclined toward base of cercus, its
											apical half curved (Figs. 179, 180, f); tegmina but feebly
											if at all surpassing hind femora. 251. NIGRIPES.
										aa. Tooth of male cercus distinctly longer than apical portion of
											shaft and strongly aciculate (Fig. 179, g); humeral sinus
											scarcely evident (Fig. 182, c); outer lower carina of hind
											femora always spined. 252. CALCARATUM.
									

									
										Fig. 180. Outlines of lateral lobes of male pronotum, X 3, and of
											ovipositors, X 2, of Orchelimum. a, agile;
											b, crythrocephalum; c, vulgare; d, gladiator; e, pulchellum; f, nigripes; g, calcaratum; h, bullatum; s, humeral sinus, c=convex callosity. (After R. &
											H.)
									

									
										245. ORCHELIMUM AGILE
											(DeGeer), 1773, 457. Agile Meadow Grass-hopper

										Size medium for the genus; form moderately robust. Color variable; usually
											dull reddish-brown, with lateral lobes of pronotum, costal or lower edge of
											tegmina, tibiæ and apical half of hind femora green or with a greenish tinge,
											sometimes nearly uniform pale green with dorsal surface tinged with clay
											yellow; pronotum often with a pair of dark brown diverging stripes. Fastigium
											broader at apex than at base, the former rounded and with a fine median line
											above. Antennæ twice or more as long as body. Disk of pronotum short; lateral
											lobes with lower margin oblique, its hind angle obtuse; humeral sinus broad,
											shallow. Tegmina surpassing hind femora about 3 mm., exceeded by wings about 2
											mm. Outer lower carina of hind femora with one to five spines. Cerci of male
											and ovipositor as in key and Figs. 179, 180. Apex of subgenital plate of male
											subtruncate or very feebly and broadly emarginate. Length of body, ♂ and ♀,
											21.5--22.5; of pronotum, ♂, 5, ♀, 5--5.6; of tegmina, ♂, 23.5--24.5, ♀,
											25--25.7; of hind femora, ♂, 17.6--18.6, ♀, 18.5--20.8; of ovipositor, 7--8
											mm.
									



									

									Marshall and Vigo Counties, Ind., Aug. 7--Oct. 1; Washington, D. C., Aug. 30;
										Thomasville, Ga., Aug.--Sept. 8; Dunedin and Gainesville, Fla., Oct. 24 (W. S. B.). This species, as determined by R. & H., I have
										found to be scarce in Indiana, less than half a dozen specimens having been
										taken; while Fox found but one near Lafayette. It was not included in my
										Orthoptera of Indiana as I had not then separated it from vulgare. My Indiana specimens agree very well with the description of
										McNeill's sylvaticum which R. & H. have made a synonym of
											agile, except that McNeill specifically states that in the
										male of his species the wings do not exceed the tegmina, which is not true of
										the Indiana males nor of those from Thomasville, Ga., received from Hebard under
										the name of O. nitidum Redt. The synonyms of O.
											agile as determined by R. & H. (1915a, 29) are O. glaucum
										Serv. (1839, 524), O. silvaticum
										McNeill (1891, 26), X. (O.) nitidum and spinulosum
										Redt. (1891, 503) and O. molossum
										R. & H. (1907, 307), but until some one makes a careful
										examination of DeGeer's type, if it be still in existence, the fixation of any
										American form as that species may still be considered an open question.
									In Florida, O. agile has been taken by collectors at a dozen
										stations, but appears to be rather scarce and to be mostly confined to the
										northern portion, though recorded as far south as Detroit and Everglade. There
										it occurs in the undergrowth of pine woods and among weeds in waste places; also
										in the sawgrass along the edge of the everglades.
									The range of O. agile, including its synonyms, is given by R.
										& H. as extending from S. E. Pennsylvania and southern New Jersey south and
										southwest to southern Florida and Louisiana and north and west to northern
										Illinois and Wichita, Kansas. Of silvaticum as occurring at
										Moline, Ill., McNeill (1891, 26) says: "I have found this Orchelimum first on corn, afterwards more commonly in open
										places in woods. Its stridulation is quite distinct from that of vulgare. It consists of the same two elements but the zip is repeated many times very rapidly so as to make almost a
										continuous sound and the zee-e-e-e is comparatively short and
										very constant, lasting about eight seconds. The first part of the song lasts
										from three to five seconds." Of the habits of agile, as found
										in Virginia, Fox (1917) wrote: "Usually abundant, in wet or moist
										areas, especially in the Scirpus americanus Pers. formation of
										tidal marshes and the marginal fringe of succulent grasses; but never occurring
										in true salt marsh-grass, Spartina stricta (Ait.); also common
										in cat-tail, sedgy and  grassy bogs inland at the
										head of sluggish streams. Occasionally it spreads to the adjoining dry land,
										specimens having been taken in goose-grass, Eleusine indica
										L., crab-grass, foxtail-grass and Andropogon."

									
										246. ORCHELIMUM ERYTHROCEPHALUM
											Davis, 1905, 288. Red-headed Meadow Grasshopper.

										Size medium to large for the genus, form robust. Green or greenish-yellow,
											hind knees and tarsi fuscous; occiput and prozona with a broad median dark
											brown dorsal stripe, in the larger specimens this often faint or wanting;
											entire head and face usually blood-red in life, fading to reddish-brown in
											drying; pronotum short, smooth, its posterior lobe short, with hind margin
											broadly rounded; lower margin of lateral lobes with hind angle narrowly
											rounded, hind margin with convey callosity broad; humeral sinus broad, very
											shallow. Tegmina surpassing tips of hind femora 2--4 mm., exceeded by wings
											the same distance. Hind femora usually armed beneath on each carina with one
											to six spines. Cerci as described in key and shown in Fig. 179, the tooth
											suddenly constricted into a slender, sharp bent spine. Ovipositor as shown in
											Fig. 180, b, slightly less than half the length of hind
											femora. Length of body, ♂ and ♀, 20--27, of pronotum, ♂, 5.5--8, ♀, 6--7.5; of
											tegmina, ♂, 22--33, ♀, 23--37; of hind femora, ♂, 17--23, ♀ 18--22; of
											ovipositor, 9--10.
									

									This meadow grasshopper, as described above, is the species which R.
											& H. (1915a, 34) call O. glaberrimum (Burm.). The
										original description (1838, 707) of that species is very brief and not
										distinctive. It is as follows: "Verticis et pronoti medio fulvo,
										nigro-marginato; elytris ab alis dimidia linea superatis. Long. corp., 11"'."
										Burmeister knew but two species from the United States, and this short
										description was sufficient for him to distinguish these, but of the 18 or more
										species now known it is impossible to say just which one he had at hand. R.
										& H. by "tracing the movements of Zimmerman, who collected the material on
										which Burmeister founded his glaberrimum," have concluded that
										his type came from Georgtown, S. Car., and have picked out the species found in
										that general region which, in their opinion, fits most closely the above brief
										description and have called it glaberrimum. In doing this they
										made the erythrocephalum of Davis a synonym. They have also
										placed as a synonym of their glaberrimum Burm. the O. cuticulare
										Serv. (1839, 523), a species of which Serville said: "J'ignore sa
										patrie."
									As stated in the introduction to this work, p. 7, in cases of this kind, where
										the insect cannot be definitely fixed as the one so briefly described by a
										foreign author, it is better to disregard his name and to adopt a later one of
										undoubted status.67
										67See quotation
											from R. & H. under O. concinnum, page 555.
										 I have, therefore, restored the name erythrocephalum given to this grasshopper by Davis.
									The known range of O. erythrocephalum extends from central
										New Jersey southwest along the coast to southern Florida, Mobile, Ala., and
										southern Mississippi, and inland to Raleigh, N. Car., Macon, Ga., and
										Agricultural College, Miss. As will be noted by the measurements it varies much
										in size, the northern specimens being the smaller. It has been taken at various
										points in the Pine Barrens of New Jersey and about Norfolk and Cape Henry, Va.
											Davis (1905) says that in life "its most noticeable feature is a
										very red face, often the whole head being of a blood red color. It appears as if
										the insect had eaten of ripe cranberries and gotten its head stained with the
										fruit, for the color is the same. About Lakehurst it is far more common than O. vulgare."
									Fox (1914, 527) states that it is apparently restricted to
										sphagnum bogs, where it frequents the dense growth of chain fern, tall sedges,
										rushes and associated plants. Of its occurrence about Cape Henry, Va., he says
										(1917) : "In addition to being common in the rank vegetation of dune hollows and
										ditches, it was not infrequent in the tall bunch grasses on the surrounding dry
										sand dunes. Farther inland it appeared to prefer areas of stiff, but not always
										moist soil, occurring in the rank plant growth of ditches, woodland borders and
										scrub. It evidently has a strong predilection for sylvan surroundings."
									I have not taken erythrocephalum in Florida but it has been
										recorded from a number of localities as far south as Everglade, being apparently
										more common in the northern third of the State. There it occurs for the most
										part in wet grassy spots along the edges of hammocks and in palmetto
										barrens.

									
										247. ORCHELIMUM VULGARE
											Harris, 1841, 130. Common Meadow Grasshopper.

										Size medium, form robust. General color green or pale reddish-brown; face
											pale green or light brown without fuscous marks; occiput and disk of pronotum
											with a reddish-brown band, widening on the latter, where it is often,
											especially in male, bordered each side with a darker line; male with two short
											black dashes on each tegmen, the four forming the angles of an assumed square,
											enclosing the tympanum; legs usually pale brown, tarsi dusky. Pronotum long,
											its posterior lobe but slightly, if at all, upturned above the plane of
											prozona; lateral lobes nearly as long as deep, the lower hind angle obtusely
											rounded; convex callosity wide, prominent; humeral sinus broad but well
											defined (Fig. 180, c.) Tegmina reaching to or slightly beyond tips of hind
											femora, and usually equalling, male, or very little shorter, female, than
											wings. Hind femora rarely armed with one or two spines beneath. Cerci of male
											as described in key, a little depressed; sub-basal 
											
												Fig. 181. a, Male; b, female. (After
													Lugger.)
											 tooth somewhat flattened with tip sharp, decurved (Fig. 179, c.) Length of body, ♂, 18--22, ♀, 18.5--23; of pronotum, ♂,
											5--6, ♀, 5.4--6.5; of tegmina, ♂, 18--26, ♀, 19--27; of hind femora, ♂,
											14--19, ♀, 14.5--20; of ovipositor, 7.5--8.5 mm. (Fig. 181.)
									

									This meadow grasshopper is probably the most abundant member of the family
										Tettigoniidæ found in Indiana. It begins to reach maturity in the central part
										of the State about July 10th, and more frequently than any other of our species
										of Orchelimum is found in upland localities, along fence rows,
										and in clover and timothy meadows. In early autumn it seems to be very fond of
										resting on the leaves and stems of the ironweed, Vernonia
											fasciculata Michx., so common in many blue-grass pastures.
									At times O. vulgare appears to be somewhat carnivorous in
										habit, as, on two occasions, I have discovered it feeding upon the bodies of
										small moths which in some way it had managed to capture; while on another date I
										surprised a female on the flowers of a golden-rod, feasting upon a soldier
										beetle, Chauliognathus pennsylvanicus DeG. According to
											Hancock (1904) it is not only carnivorous but also a cannibal, as
										a female kept in captivity captured her mate and "holding his body between her
										fore legs ate the larger portion of the soft parts, after first eating a hole in
										the back." He suggests that the "long spines of the fore and middle tibiæ are
										occasionally used and connected in this species with its carnivorous
										habits."
									O. vulgare is not only the most common member of the genus
										locally but is more widely distributed than any other, its known range extending
										from southern Maine and southern Quebec, north and west through Ontario to
										northern Minnesota, Colorado and eastern Wyoming, and south and southwest to
										North Carolina, Macon, Ga. (Fox), northwestern Arkansas and northeastern Texas.
										The larger, longer winged individuals have by many writers, including myself
										(1903, 385) been wrongfully recorded as O. glaberrimum
										(Burm.), a species which R. & H. aver replaces vulgare in
										the southern states and which I have included above as O.
											erythrocephalum Davis.


									

									In Ontario Walker (1905, 34) found vulgare "the
										only species of Orchelimum distributed generally over a large
										part of the province. It becomes gradually scarcer to the north of Lake Simcoe,
										and, I believe, does not range much farther north than Muskoka. Where found it
										is usually common in upland fields as well as low meadows and is fond of
										perching in clumps of tall grass. It reaches maturity in this latitude towards
										the end of July and lasts until about the beginning of October."
									Scudder set the call note of the male of O. vulgare to scale
										and (1893, 73) wrote of it as follows: 
											"When about to sing on a hot, sunny day, the male mounts a stalk of grass
												to about a foot from the ground where it clings with its four front legs,
												allowing its hind legs to dangle on either side of the stalk that they may
												not interfere with the movements of the tegmina. Beginning with ts it changes almost instantly to a trill of zr;
												at first there is a crescendo movement which reaches its volume in half a
												second; the trill is then sustained for a period varying from one to twenty
												seconds (generally from six to eight seconds), and closes abruptly with p. This strain is followed by a series of very short
												staccato notes sounding like jip, jip, jip, repeated at
												half second intervals; the staccato notes and the trill alternate ad libitum. The staccato notes may be continued almost
												indefinitely, but are very rarely heard more than ten times in direct
												succession; they ordinarily occur three or four times before the repetition
												of the phrase, but not more than two or three times when the phrase is not
												repeated. The night song differs from that of the day in the rarer
												occurrence of the intermediate notes and the less rapid trill of the phrase;
												the pitch of both is at B flat."
										
									

									Hancock (1904) has given an excellent description of the
										egg-laying habits of O. vulgare (glaberrimum) in captivity,
										from which I quote as follows: 
											"On the 6th of September a female was noticed exhibiting rather restless
												actions among the loosely spread stems of one of the boquets of flowers, and
												soon after I found her ovipositing in a stem of the bur marigold. Before
												selecting the marigold as the proper plant for her immediate needs, she
												tested a number of different kinds of plants by biting the stems. When at
												last the coveted stem was found, she started very vigorously biting, moving
												her head from side to side in an endeavor to get a stronger hold with her
												jaws. A gash into the outer layer of the stem was soon made, about an eighth
												of an inch in length, the insect finally going back over the course of the
												incision with the evident purpose of more deeply penetrating to the pith.
												During this first stage in the process the female stood with her head
												directed downwards, but as soon as the spot was prepared with the mouth she
												reversed her body preparatory to the act of oviposition. Firmly grasping the
												plant stem with her feet she curved the abdomen underneath, at the same time
												bringing the pointed extremity of the ovipositor into the breach made in the
												stem. Now she stood with her ovipositor under the abdomen with the blades
												slightly imbedded, but  gradually as it was
												worked within the stem she almost imperceptibly moved forward a little at a
												time Finally when the ovipositor was buried to its utmost length it was
												directed backwards. It was now appreciated how well adapted the beautiful
												curve and structure of the organ are for this purpose. A moment later the
												blades were spread apart, allowing the elongate egg to be lodged within the
												center of the pith, the latter having been pressed to either side for the
												accommodation of the egg. As soon as the first egg was deposited, she
												withdrew the ovipositor and immediately turning around she again bit the
												same spot, spending several minutes chewing the fibers and pinching the
												sides together with her powerful jaws. This was done in order to use the
												same opening to deposit the second egg. She next moved a little way down the
												stem, but this time her head was directed downwards so that she might insert
												the ovipositor in the same hole, but deposit the second egg in a reversed
												position to that of the first. When the third and fourth eggs were about to
												be deposited she moved down the stem to a new site about half an inch away,
												varying the distance, and the process with its several stages was repeated
												The interior of the stem was finally filled for a considerable distance with
												eggs, about ten minutes being consumed in the deposition of each one, nine
												incisions being made in the one stem and 18 eggs deposited. It may be of
												interest to note that Riley (1884, 187) mentions that this
												species oviposits in the stems of various pithy plants, and especially in
												the tassel stem of Indian corn."
										
									

									Notwithstanding its wide distribution and common occurrence O.
											vulgare has not a single synonym. Redtenbacher (1891, 500)
										placed vulgare as a synonym of DeGeer's Xiphidium
											agile, stating as his reason for so doing that Harris and Scudder had
										separated the two "on account of small differences in the color and size of the
										wing covers, as well as in the length of the ovipositor." I pointed out (1903,
										384) that his relative measurements of X. agile as given, did
										not agree with specimens of undoubted vulgare in my
										possession, and retained the latter species as distinct. In this I have been
										upheld by recent writers.

									
										248. ORCHELIMUM GLADIATOR
											Bruner, 1891, 71. Gladiator Meadow Grasshopper.

										Size medium, form robust. Pale transparent grass-green throughout; the
											usual dark brown markings on the occiput and disk of pronotum; on the latter
											composed of two well defined, narrow, slightly diverging lines; antennæ
											rufous, tarsi and extreme tip of ovipositor tinged with rufous. Fastigium
											short, obtuse, the extreme tip shallowly sulcate. Pronotum much as in vulgare, the metazona a little more upturned; lateral lobes
											deep, their lower hind angle subrectangular. Tegmina somewhat variable in
											length, usually but slightly passing tips of hind femora, female, more
											distinctly so, male; inner wings of same length as tegmina, male, a little
											longer, female. Hind femora usually unarmed beneath, rarely with one or two
											short spines on outer margin. Cerci of male as in key and Fig. 179; subgenital
											plate as in vulgare, the styles longer. Ovipositor as
											described in key. Length of body, ♂, 17, ♀, 18--20; of antennæ, ♂, 43, ♀, . 35; of pronotum, ♂, 4.3--5, ♀, 4.7; of tegmina,
											♂, 19--23, ♀, 19--21; of hind femora, ♂, 12--14, ♀, 15.5--17; of ovipositor 10
											mm.
									

									In Indiana this species has been found only in the northern counties, where it
										is quite common in damp prairies, meadows and marshes, and begins to reach
										maturity about July 10. A pair were found mating in Marshall County on July
										29.
									The range of gladiator is almost as great as that of vulgare, but it is nowhere as common as that species. It is
										known from Montreal and New England west to Washington and northern California,
										and south and southwest to New Jersey, Tennessee and northeastern Kansas.
											Walker (1910, 352) redescribed the male from Ashdown, Manitoba as
											O. manitobense. It is not recorded definitely from Michigan
										and in Ohio only from Cedar Point. Specimens are at hand from Algonquin, Ill.
											(Nason.) Walden does not include it in his Orthoptera of
										Connecticut, though it had been taken in that State by Morse in 1894. It has
										been erroneously recorded a number of times as O. vulgare, but
										the females are easily separated by the form of the ovipositor and the males by
										the long tooth of cercus and the very feeble humeral sinus.

									
										249. ORCHELIMUM PULCHELLUM
											Davis, 1909, 33. Handsome Meadow Grasshopper.

										Size medium; form moderately robust. Pale green; head often in great part
											reddish, face yellow; pronotum with the usual dorsal dark stripe; sides bottle
											green; under surface yellow, hat of abdomen notably so; femora lemon-yellow
											below and within, the apical third of hind pair reddish; tibiæ of all the legs
											reddish, tarsi fuscous. Fastigium narrow, its apical half scarcely wider; eyes
											very prominent. Pronotum short, subsellate, metazona less than one-half the
											length of prozona; lateral lobes deeper than long, lower margin short, its
											hind angle narrowly rounded; humeral sinus evident but shallow. Tegmina with
											apical half strongly tapering, surpassing hind femora 3 mm. exceeded by wings
											the same distance. Cerci as in key and Fig. 179, e, its
											upper outer edge raised in an obtuse carina and apical half oblique, concave
											within, the tip obtuse. Notch of subgenital plate broadly V-shaped, the styles
											very short, obtuse. Ovipositor rather wide, moderately curved, distinctly more
											than half the length of hind femora, its apex slightly surpassing the tips of
											tegmina (Fig. 180, e.) Length of body, ♂, 18--19, ♀,
											18.3--22.8; of pronotum, ♂: 5, ♀, 4.2--5.7; of tegmina, ♂, 20--23, ♀,
											18.7--28.3; of hind femora, ♂, 16--18, ♀, 15.3--19.2; of ovipositor, 9--11
											mm.
									

									Helmetta, Dennisville and Jamesburg, N. Jer., Sept. 5--21 (Davis) ; Tappahannock, Va., Sept. 19 (Fox) ; Rosslyn,
										Va., Sept. 12 (Caudell). Described from the first two
										localities above mentioned, where Davis found them on the tall grass in a very
										wet swamp.


									


									R. & H. (1915a, 53) have made this a synonym of O. laticauda
										Redt. (1891, 504) described from a single female taken at New
										Orleans, La. This was done without examination of the type of laticauda and only by comparison with Redtenbacher's brief description.
										In this there are several notable discrepancies, when compared with undoubted
										specimens of O. pulchellum, viz.: "lobi lateralis pronoti
										margine postico sinuato." This is not true of pulchellum and
										R. & H., in their key to females of Orchelimum separate
											laticauda from nigripes by the former
										having the "caudal margin of lateral lobes gently arcuate ventrad of humeral
										sinus," whereas in nigripes it is said to be "sinuate or
										subsinuate ventrad." Again, Redtenbacher says: "Elytra femora postica valde
										superantia, alis multo breviora," whereas in pulchellum the
										tegmina at most surpass the hind femora 3--4 mm., and are only 3--4 mm. shorter
										than the wings. Finally Redtenbacher in his key separates laticauda from four other species by its having the "femora postica
										utrinque spinulosa," while in pulchellum, as R. & H.
										admit, "the vast majority have the internal margin unarmed." What laticauda was or is I know not nor do I believe any one else can tell
										without an examination of the type. I have therefore restored the name given by
										Davis to this grasshopper.
									Of the types of this species Davis wrote: "When seen in life the insect is
										particularly beautiful and is conspicuous for its bottle-green colored tegmina,
										with a bluish tinge, its lemon-yellow markings and its reddish legs. Its song
										was a zip, zip, zip-z, z, z,--zip, zip, zip-z, z, z,--quite a distinguishable
										song from that of O. vulgare."
									The range of laticauda so-called by R. & H., including
											pulchellum Davis, is given by them (1915a, 54) as "Covering
										the Atlantic Coastal Plain region from north central New Jersey south to
										southern Florida, westward to New Orleans, La.; in the eastern states occurring
										at suitable valley localities in the Piedmont region above the fall line." In
										Florida it has been recorded from Atlantic Beach, Jacksonville, Ortega, Sanford,
										Palatka, Detroit, Lakeland and Chokoloskee, most of the records being made under
										the names nitidum and pulchellum.
									McAtee and Caudell record (1917) pulchellum (under the name
											laticauda) from numerous localities about Washington, D. C.,
										and Fox (1917) states that about Tappahannock, Va., it is
										"occasional in a variety of situations, occurring regularly in tidal and fresh
										water marshes and pond borders, but the males, at least, spreading in small
										numbers to upland districts where the  species was
										taken in a field of dense millet and in a thick growth of ragweed bordering the
										fence of a town lot. In the tidal marshes it was found in the tall marsh-grass,
											Spartina cynosuroides (L.) and in a marginal fringe of
										switch-grasses. In fresh water bogs it was taken on various grasses, cat-tails,
										sedges and bushes. Unlike most members of the genus it appears to have a strong
										preference for woodland habitats."

									
										250. ORCHELIMUM BULLATUM
											Rehn & Hebard, 1915a, 50.

										Size above the medium for the genus; form robust. Pale green fading to
											dull yellow, the tegmina alone remaining in great part green; the usual dark
											bars on occiput and pronotum vague, often broken into small oblong fuscous
											spots; antennæ and tibiæ uniform dull reddish-yellow. Fastigium prominent, its
											sides divergent from base and rounded beyond the middle, the apex therefore
											distinctly wider than base. Pronotum short; broad, feebly sellate; metazona
											two-thirds the length of prozona, the transverse sulcus in male deeply and
											broadly impressed, lateral lobes slightly deeper than long, lower margin much
											less oblique, with hind angle much less narrowly rounded than in nigripes; humeral sinus distinct, in male deeper than in pulchellum. Tegmina surpassing hind femora 3--5 mm.; exceeded by wings
											3--4 mm.; their cross-veins very prominent, especially so in female. Cercus of
											male stouter than in nigripes, its apical portion more
											evenly tapering; tooth shorter, stouter, more erect. Ovipositor distinctly
											wider throughout its length than in either nigripes or pulchellum, less curved than in the former, longer than in the
											latter (Figs. 179, 180, h.) Other differences as given in
											key. Length of body, ♂, 18--19, ♀, 19--21; of pronotum, ♂, 5--5.3, ♀, 5.2--6;
											of tegmina, ♂, 23--25, ♀, 25--27; of hind femora, ♂, 17--18, ♀, 19--20; of
											ovipositor 10--11.5 mm.
									

									Tippecanoe Co., Ind., three males, five females (Fox). This
										is the Orchelimum recorded by Fox (1915, 318) as
											"O. nigripes Scudd. (variety.") He states: "On October 13
										and 14 I found a form of this genus in a cat-tail marsh on the upland northwest
										of Lafayette which I was unable to determine, but which Mr. Rehn, to whom I
										submitted specimens, informs me is a race of O. nigripes from
										the typical form of which it differs in the absence of black from the tibiæ and,
										so far as my Lafayette material is concerned, in its somewhat greater size. On
										the dates mentioned it literally swarmed in the mixed cat-tail and rice
										cut-grass areas of the marsh, but was entirely lacking in the marginal
										thickets."
									That this is a very distinct species from both nigripes and
											pulchellum is shown by the differences I have pointed out in
										key and description. I was at first inclined to consider it an undescribed form,
										but Dr. Fox, who made for me a drawing of the male cercus, called my attention
										to its close similarity to that of bullatum as figured by R.
										& H. A comparison with their description 
										shows that while the Indiana males are somewhat smaller than the measurements
										given, they agree otherwise so closely that there is little doubt but that they
										represent the northern form of that species, hitherto known only from Louisiana
										and eastern Texas. R. & H. state that in Texas it was "found frequenting
										high grasses along streams or in depressions. The note was a long buzzing zeececee somewhat resembling that of some cicadas, with but few
										interspersed clicking sounds."

									
										251. ORCHELIMUM NIGRIPES
											Scudder, 1875, 459. Black-legged Meadow Grasshopper.

										Size medium for the genus; form robust. General color green or
											reddish-brown, the former prevailing in male, the latter in female; occiput
											and disk of pronotum with the usual brown markings; front and sides of head,
											and fore and middle femora, reddish-yellow; antennæ and all the tibiæ and
											tarsi, together with apical third of hind femora, black or dark brown at least
											above; in one specimen at hand the whole body, except tegmina and femora,
											black. Fastigium narrow, its sides subparallel, and apex very feebly if at all
											widened. Pronotum short, distinctly saddle-shaped in male where the metazona
											is rather strongly upturned; lateral lobes distinctly deeper than long, their
											lower margin very oblique, its hind angle narrowly rounded; convex callosity
											narrow but distinct. Tegmina equalling the wings, male, a little shorter,
											female. Shrilling organ of male unusually large and prominent with strong
											crossveins; behind it the tegmina taper rapidly on both margins, their shape
											and the size of the tympanum causing the male to appear somewhat peculiar and
											more robust than it really is. Hind femora armed on apical half of lower outer
											carina with one to four small spines. Cerci of male slender, tapering, concave
											within, its apex obtuse. Ovipositor strongly curved, broadest at middle,
											tapering to a delicate point (Figs. 179, 180, f.) Length of
											body, ♂, 18--20, ♀, 19--21; of antennæ, 66--80; of pronotum, ♂ and ♀, 4.3--5;
											of tegmina, ♂, 20--22, ♀, 22--25; of hind femora, ♂, 16--17, ♀, 17--19; of
											ovipositor, 9--10.5 mm.
									

									Next to O. vulgare this handsome black-legged grasshopper is
										the most common Conocephalid in Indiana, occurring by hundreds about the margins
										of every lake, pond and marsh in the State. It is essentially a lowland or
										hygrophilous species and is seldom found about the drier uplands where vulgare has its favorite haunts. It reaches maturity about July
										20, and frequents the tall grasses and especially the stems and leaves of the
										different species of smartweed, Polygonum, growing in the
										shallow water of the larger ponds and lakes. Near Lafayette Fox
											(1915) found it "an abundant and characteristic species of open grassy
										bogs and damp situations generally, being especially common in the rice
										cutgrass, Homalocenchrus oryzoides (L.)." Examples of the
										parasitic hairworm, Gordius sp. ?, have been taken from the
										abdomens of a number of specimens.


									

									The type of Scudder was from Dallas, Texas, and the species has its main
										distribution west of the Mississippi, ranging from Ohio and southern Ontario
										south to Tennessee and Louisiana, and west to Colorado and central Texas. Of its
										habits in Ontario Walker (1905, 36) has written: "On August 7,
										1901, while collecting at Point Pelee in a low woods bordering a stream, I heard
										a sound very like the stridulation of O. vulgare, but more
										subdued, the "zips" coming at much shorter intervals, and more of them produced
										at a time. I succeeded in tracing the song to its source and found an Orchelimum quite new to me which proved to be O.
											nigripes. Another male was taken in the same way, and I heard others but
										was unable to find them. In several cases the sound proceeded from trees at a
										height of some ten or fifteen feet, but as a rule it came from tall weeds and
										vines which grow in great luxuriance upon the rich black soil."
									At Moline, Ill., McNeill (1891, 25) found it "about as common as
											vulgare. It is not at all shy but even shows a preference, I
										have thought, for human society. I have known a male to keep a place over the
										wooden finish of a doorway for more than a week. If he ate during that time he
										must have been obliged to leave his post to satisfy his hunger and he probably
										returned many times to the place. The song is difficult to distinguish with
										certainty from that of vulgare but usually the zip-zip is repeated only once or twice very rapidly and the z-e-e-e-e does not continue so long."
									The X. (O.) robustum
										Redt. (1891, 499) described from New Orleans, La., is placed by R.
										& H. as a synonym of O. nigripes.

									
										Fig. 182. a, Outline of stridulating field of male of O.
												vulgare; b, same of O. erythrocephalum, X 3; c,
											outline of male type of O. calcaratum, X 2. (After R. &
											H.)
									

									
										252. ORCHELIMUM CALCARATUM
											Rehn & Hebard, 1915a, 46. Long-spurred Meadow
											Grasshopper.

										Size medium for the genus; form moderately robust. Pale green, occiput and
											disk of prozona with usually a median pale brown stripe, this darker on the
											sides; stridulating field of male with three spots of blackish brown as in vulgare, two at base and one on left near apex; abdomen of
											male often with a dark blotch above; ovipositor pale brown. Fastigium feebly
											ascending, but slightly wider than basal joint of antennæ. Antennæ nearly four
											times as long as body. Pronotum slightly saddle-shaped,  metazona feebly ascending, two-thirds the length of prozona;
											lateral lobes slightly longer than deep, lower margin straight, oblique, its
											hind angle obtuse; humeral sinus scarcely evident. Tegmina not or very rarely
											reaching tips of hind femora, surpassed by wings about 2 mm. Hind femora
											robust, armed on lower outer carina with three or four spines. Cerci as in key
											and Fig. 179, g, their tips subdepressed and tapering to a
											dull point; notch of subgenital plate shallowly U-shaped; styles short, their
											tips obtuse. Ovipositor about half as long as hind femora, rather broad,
											regularly curved. Length of body, ♂, 19.5--23, ♀, 17--20; of pronotum, ♂,
											5.2--6.2, ♀, 5.6--6; of tegmina, ♂, 16--19, ♀, 16.5--18; of hind femora, ♂,
											17--21, ♀, 19--20; of ovipositor, 9--9.6 mm. (Fig. 182, c.)
									

									Clarksville, Tenn., Aug. 13, 31 (Fox). The known range of
										this species is mostly southwestern extending from southeastern Illinois and
										north-central Tennessee west to Colorado and southwest to central Texas. East of
										the Mississippi it has before been recorded only from Olney, Ill., a female
										taken there by Ridgeway being in the U. S. National Museum collection.
									It is a rather short bulky species, resembling a small vulgare, the male being easily known by the long, slender, sharp-pointed
										tooth of cerci, the female more difficult to separate but known by the less
										robust fastigium, very faint humeral sinus, and armed hind femora. R.
											& H. (1915a, 48) state that "This species is clumsy in its actions,
										and once located, easy to capture. In Texas it was found in a great variety of
										situations, ranging from high grass to 12 feet above the ground in post oak. It
										was taken in grass among cotton, in green weeds, low bushes and in tall nettles
										as well as in bushes in pine woods. The stridulation is not loud."
									The X. (O.) cuticulare
										Redt. (1891, 503) nec. Serville is placed by R. & H. as a
										synonym of calcaratum.
								

								
									Group II. THE CONCINNUM
											GROUP OF ORCHELIMUM.

									Here belong seven nominal species and two varieties having the apical portion
										of male cercus distinctly longer than the basal portion. In size and form
										(except in superbum) they are generally smaller and more
										slender than the members of Group I, and the ovipositor, except rarely in concinnum, is always more than half the length of hind
										femora.

									
										KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF GROUP II OF ORCHELIMUM.

										a. Apical portion of male cercus not strongly tapering to an acute
											apex: tooth of cercus (except in superbum) arising as usual
											from the inner side of shaft and not strongly recurved toward base (Fig. 183,
												a--c); upper margin of ovipositor (except in delicatum) regularly and evenly curved.
										b. Humeral sinus of lateral lobes distinct (Fig. 184, a); tooth of male cercus normal in point of origin; smaller and more
											slender, length of body in both sexes less than 21 mm.


										


										c. Lower outer carina of hind femora with 3 to 5 spines beneath;
											lateral lobes of pronotum slightly longer than deep; ovipositor more than
											two-thirds the length of hind femora (Fig. 184, e.) 253. MINOR.
										cc. Lower outer carina of hind femora very rarely armed beneath;
											lateral lobes of pronotum deeper than long (Fig. 184, a.)
										d. Ovipositor very slender, distinctly falcate, but little more, or
											even less, than half as long as hind femora (Fig. 184, a);
											males larger, (length of body 17 or more mm.) and more robust.
										e. Face with a dark reddish-brown stripe down its center; hind femora
											more robust and relatively shorter, 14--17 mm. 254. CONCINNUM.
										ee. Face green without a median brown stripe; hind femora relatively
											longer and more slender, 16--18 mm. 254a. CAMPESTRE.
										dd. Ovipositor distinctly broader and much straighter, nearly
											three-fourths the length of hind femora (Fig. 184, f); males
											smaller (not over 16 mm.) and more slender. 254b. DELICATUM.

										
											Fig. 183. Dorsal and lateral outlines of left cercus of male Orchelimum (X 9). a, minor; b, concinnum; c, superbum; d, fidicinium; e, militare; f, volantum; g, bradleyi. (After R. & H.)
										

										bb. Humeral sinus very faint or obsolete (Fig. 186, b); tooth of male cercus arising from the lower face of shaft and
											strongly recurved toward base of latter (Fig. 183, c);
											larger and more robust, length of body, 22--25 mm.; ovipositor broad, but
											slightly more than half the length of hind femora. 255. SUPERBUM.
										aa. Apical portion of cercus distinctly and strongly tapering to a
											subacute apex (Fig. 183, d--g); tooth of cercus, except in
												volantum, either arising from the inner lower face of
											shaft or directed strongly backward; upper margin of ovipositor, except in fidicinium, straight or nearly so.
										f. Ovipositor two-thirds or more the length of hind femora; speculum
											of stridulating field of male but slightly longer than wide (Fig. 187, a); form more slender.


										

										g. Lateral lobes of pronotum as long as deep, their humeral sinus
											evident but shallow; cercus more robust, less tapering; ovipositor less than
											12 mm. in length, its upper margin with a slight but evident regular curve
											(Fig. 184, b.) 256. FIDICINIUM.
										gg. Lateral lobes deeper than long, the humeral sinus very distinct;
											cercus much longer, more slender, strongly tapering; ovipositor 15 or more mm.
											in length, its upper margin straight or nearly so (Fig. 184, c.) 257. MILITARE.
										ff. Ovipositor less than two-thirds the length of hind femora (Fig.
											184, d); speculum of male distinctly longer than wide (Fig.
											187, b); lower outer carina of hind femora always armed
											beneath.
										h. Tooth of cercus diverging on a plane with dorsum of cercal shaft,
											but slightly recurved toward base of latter (Fig. 183, f);
											apical portion of cereal shaft regularly tapering, quite acute. 258. VOLANTUM.
										hh. Tooth of cercus diverging from the lower inner face, more strongly
											recurved; apical portion of shaft subarcuate, less acute, more strongly
											depressed when viewed from the side (Fig. 183, g.)259. BRADLEYI.
									

									
										Fig. 184. Outlines of lateral lobes of male pronotum, X 3, and of ovipositor,
											X 2, of Orchelimum. a, concinnum; b, fidicinium; c, militare; d, volantum; e, minor; f, delicatum;
											g, bradleyi; s==humeral sinus; o==convex callosity. (After
											R. & H.)
									

									
										253. ORCHELIMUM MINOR
											Bruner, 1891, 72. Pine Tree Grasshopper.

										Size small; form slender. Usually pale reddish-brown with face, lateral
											lobes of pronotum and all the femora green; the usual dark brown stripe of
											pronotum bordered outside with a narrow yellowish one. Fastigium slender,
											strongly ascending, its apex but little wider than base with sides feebly
											rounded. Pronotum of male subsellate, of female with metazona not upturned;
											lateral lobes with lower margin feebly sinuate, its hind angle narrowly
											rounded; humeral sinus distinct but shallow. Tegmina short, scarcely reaching
											tips of hind femora, very slightly shorter than wings, male, surpassing the
											femora 1.5 mm. and exceeded by wings the same distance, female. Cerci as in
											key and Fig. 183, a, their apical portion feebly concave
											within, the tip obtuse. Ovipositor broad, three-fourths as long as hind
											femora, but slightly falcate, Fig. 184, e. Length of body,
											♂, 15--16.5, ♀, 15.4--19; of pronotum, ♂, 4.2--4.5, ♀, 4.2--5; of tegmina, ♂,
											15--16.5, ♀, 14.8--17.5; of hind femora, ♂, 13.2--14, ♀, 14--15; of
											ovipositor, 11 mm. (Fig. 186, a.)
									

									Lakehurst, N. Jer., Sept. 4-6 (Davis) ; Tappahannock, Va.,
										Sept. 14, 22 (Fox). A small species of eastern distribution,
										ranging from central New Jersey to Georgia and west as far as the mountain
										valleys of North Carolina, at an elevation of 2,500  feet, and the vicinity of Washington, D. C. Bruner's type was from the
										District of Columbia and was very briefly described. It appears to be a
										pine-loving arboreal species and Davis (1904) has given an
										interesting account of its habits from which I quote as follows: 
											"Those who visit the pine-barrens of New Jersey know what a pleasure it is
												to ramble along the narrow wooded-paths among the pine trees; old paths that
												after once being made continue for many years, and may seldom entertain a
												pedestrian. Along these paths and by the side of the sandy roads, any time
												during late summer and until frost, one may hear a faint, lisping little
												song from a grasshopper coming from the pines, often from their topmost
												branches. It is an easy matter to climb the pitchpine, which is usually
												arranged admirably for the purpose, and the grasshopper is also friendly to
												investigation, and commonly continues to stridulate.
											"Two stout insect-nets clapped together suddenly about the center of the
												music will often disclose the grasshopper in one of them, but not always. He
												is a tree-loving insect, and being subject to the tossings of the wind,
												holds on tighter than most grasshoppers that I have had dealings with. It
												is, in fact, the only arboreal Orchelimum that I have
												found in New Jersey.
											"Sometimes Orchelimum minor can be observed on the low
												branches of a pine especially if the tree stands in the open, and the insect
												may occasionally be beaten into an umbrella. When the trunks of the pines
												are 'sugared' for moths the little minor also attends,
												and, like many other members of the genus, it is active and musical both by
												day and night."
										
									

									Of its habits in Georgia Allard (1910b, 35) wrote: "Its notes are
										a succession of brief, feeble, silken lisps followed by a pause about as long,
										then repeated s-s-s-s-s-s--s-s-s-s-s-s--s-s-s-s-s-s. I hear it
										during the warm, sunny hours of the day, even in the high-crowned pines around
										my house. So faint and fugacious are its notes that it is probably never
										identified by ordinary ears. If a good breeze is blowing, the feeble lisps are
										lost amidst the sighing and rustle of the pines upon which they dwell. In no
										manner do the notes to me recall those of any other Orchelimum. The short staccato lisps so characteristic of the songs of
										most Orchelimums are entirely wanting and the tone quality
										more nearly resembles the leg and wing stridulations of some of the Stenobothri
										than the Orchelimums."

									
										254. ORCHELIMUM CONCINNUM
											Scudder, 1862, 452. Dusky-faced Meadow Grasshopper.

										Size medium for the genus; form slender. Color variable, fresh specimens
											usually with tegmina and wings translucent pale brown, tinged with green on
											costal margin; sides of pronotum and abdomen, and all the femora, pale green;
											tibiæ and tarsi of a brownish hue; face yellowish-white  with a dark reddish-brown stripe the width of labrum, starting
											with mouth and passing upward to vertex, where it narrows to the width of that
											organ; then, broadening on occiput, passes back to front border of pronotum,
											where it divides into two narrow streaks which enclose a whitish area and
											extend slightly onto metazona; subgenital plate of male yellow; basal third of
											ovipositor dark brown, the remainder pale reddish-brown. Fastigium short,
											feebly ascending, its apical portion slightly wider than base with sides and
											apex rounded. Pronotum short, metazona but slightly ascending, male, not at
											all, female; lateral lobes with lower margin feebly sinuate, its hind angle
											rounded. Tegmina narrow, tapering; slightly shorter than wings and of a
											delicate texture. Hind femora slender, shorter than the closed tegmina,
											unarmed beneath or very rarely with one or two spines on the outer carina.
											Cercus of male longer than subgenital plate, tapering to a dull point; its
											tooth short, erect, with a broad base and very sharp, slightly bent point
											(Fig. 183, b.) Ovipositor of less than average width, about
											half the length of hind femora, its apical half with a gentle upward curve.
											Length of body, ♂ and ♀, 16.5--18; of pronotum, ♂, 4--5.5, ♀, 4--5; of
											tegmina, ♂, 19--23, ♀, 17--24; of hind femora, ♂, 14--16, ♀, 13.5--17; of
											ovipositor, 7.5--8.2 mm. (Fig. 185.)
									
									
										Fig. 185. Female. X 1.5. (Original.)
									

									In northern Indiana this graceful and prettily marked species is quite common
										among the rank grasses and sedges growing about the margins of tamarack swamps
										and lakes, where it reaches maturity about July 20th. It occurs also in small
										numbers about a large marsh in Marion County but has not been taken in the
										southern part of the State.
									R. & H. (1915a, 60) have restored the O.
											concinnum of Scudder as a valid species and have made my indianense (1893c, 90) and six other forms synonyms of it. They are
										probably correct as regards indianense, although Scudder gave
										an opinion that it was a new form before it was originally described. In his
										later writings Scudder regarded his concinnum as a synonym of
											herbaceum
										Serv. (1839, 524), a name which R. & H. have placed with a
										question mark under their O. fidicinium, adding: "We have no
										definite proof that herbaceum is the same as fidicinium and, until we have some positive information of this sort we
										do not care to replace a well understood name by another of doubtful status." It
										would have been better if the same course had been followed with O.
											agile, glaberrimum, nitidum and laticauda.
									Scudder's types of concinnum were from Cape Cod, Mass., and
										the species, as determined by R. & H., ranges from southern New  England and Ontario west to northern Michigan,
										southeastern Minnesota and central Montana and south and southwest to Florida,
										Mississippi, central Texas and New Mexico.
									In Florida it has been taken by me at Dunedin in December and January from tall
										grasses about the margins of shallow ponds where it occurs in company with Leptysma marginicollis and Conocephalus
											gracillimus. It has also been recorded from scattered localities
										throughout the State, but the adults were usually scarce, though Hebard
											(1915b) says that "In July the marshes of the region about Miami swarm
										with the young."
									Under the name of O. indianense
										Walker (1905, 37) recorded it as common in August near Sarnia,
										Ont., in a large tract of open grassy land, and also as found in marshes at
										Arner and on Walpole Island. R. & H. (1915a, 65) state that:
										"From the eastern States we know of no correct record of the occurrence of the
										species at a locality away from the general vicinity of the coast." In Virginia
										Fox found it abundant among the grasses and sedges of the tidal marshes.

									
										254a. ORCHELIMUM CONCINNUM CAMPESTRE
											Blatchley, 1893c, 91.

										Differs from typical concinnum in its slightly larger,
											more robust form, generally paler color, the ground hue being more often green
											than pale brown, uniform green face, longer, more narrow and less tapering
											tegmina and relatively longer and more slender hind femora. Length of body, ♂,
											17.5, ♀, 19; of antennæ, 46; of pronotum, ♂, 4.2--4.5, ♀, 4.5--5; of tegmina,
											♂, 21--24, ♀, 20--25; of hind femora, ♂, 16--17, ♀, 16--17.5; of ovipositor,
											7--7.5 mm.
									

									While this form agrees with concinnum in the size and shape
										of the male cerci, it differs sufficiently in the characters given to justify at
										least a varietal name. In Indiana it is frequent as far south as Knox County,
										inhabiting for the most part upland bluegrass pastures and the tall grasses of
										the dryer prairies and being seldom, if ever found about the lakes and marshes
										in company with typical concinnum. I have taken it at Buffalo,
										N. Y., on Sept. 4, and it has been definitely recorded from Ontario, Ohio, New
										Jersey, Illinois and Minnesota. It is also known (Fox Ms.) to occur near
										Clarksville, Tenn.

									
										254b. ORCHELIMUM CONCINNUM DELICATUM
											Bruner, 1892a, 264. Delicate Meadow Grasshopper.

										Smaller and more slender than O. concinnum. Color much
											the same, the face without a dark stripe. Pronotum shorter and narrower, the
											hind margin of metazona more rounded; lateral lobes less deep, the humeral
											sinus more evident. Stridulating field narrower, the cross-vein shorter, more
											slender. Subgenital plate of male narrower, more strongly keeled  beneath. Ovipositor very feebly curved above,
											distinctly longer and broader than in concinnum, its lower
											margin more strongly tapering to the acute point (Fig. 184, f.) Length of body, ♂, 16, ♀, 17.5; of antennæ, ♂ and ♀, about 50; of
											pronotum, ♂, 3.8, ♀, 4,; of tegmina, ♂, 19, ♀, 20; of hind femora, ♂, 14, ♀,
											15; of ovipositor, 10.5--13 mm.
									

									Lincoln and West Point, Neb., September (Bruner) ; Starke and
										Marshall counties, Ind., July 30-Aug. 20 (W. S. B.). I cannot
										follow R. & H. (1915a, 60) in making this a synonym of concinnum. If the size and form of the ovipositor is of any
										value whatever in separating the females of this genus (and they have used its
										variations as the principal differential character in their key to the females)
										its greater length and distinctly straighter form in delicatum
										at once separate it from concinnum or its variety campestre. In order to accommodate their synonymy R. & H., in this
										key to females, have had to lead up to concinnum in two
										different places, as when delicatum was included with it it
										would not go under "Ovipositor less than half the length of caudal femur." The
										differences as given in key and above are sufficient to retain it as a distinct
										variety.
									This Orchelimum was described from West Point and Lincoln,
										Nebr., where Bruner found it common about the margins of ponds and along the
										edges of streams, also at electric lights. In Indiana it has been noted only in
										Marshall and Starke counties, where a half dozen specimens were secured in
										lowland meadows near large lakes on July 30 and August 20, 1902. It probably
										occurs throughout the lake region of the northern third of the State and is not
										elsewhere recorded east of Nebraska.
									The O. gracile
										Bruner (1891, 70), a preoccupied name, is a synonym.

									
										255. ORCHELIMUM SUPERBUM
											Rehn & Hebard, 1915a, 76. Superb Meadow Grasshopper.

										Size large for the genus; form robust, subcompressed. Pale green; tegmina,
											basal third of hind femora, and sometimes the fore and middle femora, pale
											brown; dorsal stripes on prozona chocolate-brown, bordered without by paler;
											abdomen brown above, dull yellow beneath; tibial spines black, pale at base.
											Fastigium stout, scarcely ascending, but slightly narrowed at base, rounded at
											apex. Antennæ twice or more as long as body, the basal joint with a rounded
											tubercle within. Pronotum distinctly subsellate, male, faintly so, female,
											lateral lobes as long as deep, their lower margin very oblique, its hind angle
											narrowly rounded; convex callosity elongate, narrow. Tegmina surpassing hind
											femora about 9 mm., exceeded by wings 4 mm., their tips narrowly rounded.
											Stridulating area of male shorter and no wider than disk of pronotum, its main
											vein nearly transverse. Cercus as in key and Fig. 183, c,
											its middle third robust and inflated, apical third subdepressed and apparently
											twisted, the tooth stout,  its tip very sharp
											and bent. Apex of subgenital plate subtruncate; styles slender, cylindrical,
											obtuse. Ovipositor stout, distinctly though not strongly falcate, the lower
											margin of apical half strongly tapering to the acute apex. Length of body, ♂,
											19.6--24.6, ♀, 24; of pronotum, ♂, 5--6, ♀, 7.5; of tegmina, ♂, 22--25.4, ♀,
											28; of hind femora, ♂, 16--18; ♀, 19; of ovipositor, 10 mm. (Fig. 186, b.)
									

									Tappahannock, Va., July 6; Morristown, N. Jer., July 9 (Fox).
										The types were taken by Fox in a bog among clumps of fern, Woodwardia virginica (L.) near Winslow Junction, N. Jer. The species is
										known only from a few localities in New Jersey and at Tappahannock, Va., where
										it was found on the three-square rush, Scirpus americanus
										Pers. in tidal marshes. Two of the Virginia specimens had the outer lobes of the
										hind knees bispinose instead of unispinose as in the types, thus showing that
										this character has little if any differential value.

									
										Fig. 186. a, Outline of male of O. minor; b, same of O. superbum. X 1.8. (After R. & H.)
									

									
										256. ORCHELIMUM FIDICINIUM
											Rehn & Hebard, 1907, 309.

										Size small to medium for the genus; form slender. Pale green, fading to
											brownish or clay-yellow; occiput with a median dark brown stripe, this usually
											extending back, but broken and paler, to metazona; fore and middle femora
											often mottled with numerous small purplish dots; hind tibiæ and all the tarsi
											reddish-brown. Fastigium rather stout, feebly elevated above the occiput, its
											sides subparallel and apex rounded. Antennæ about three times the length of
											body. Pronotum with metazona on same plane as prozona, its hind margin very
											broadly rounded; lateral lobes with lower margin oblique, its hind angle
											obtusely rounded. Tegmina surpassing tips of femora 1.5 mm., exceeded by wings
											2 mm., their tips narrowly rounded. Hind femora usually armed on outer lower
											carina with one to four spines. Cerci as in key and Fig. 183, d, the tooth strongly recurved, acute; notch of subgenital plate,
											broad, shallow; styles short, stout, obtuse. Ovipositor more than half the
											length of tegmina and extending beyond their tips, very feebly curved,
											tapering beyond the middle to an acute apex (Fig. 184, b.)
											Length of body, ♂, 16--18.5, ♀, 16--19; of pronotum, ♂, 3.8--4, ♀, 4--4.5; of
											tegmina, ♂, 17--21, ♀, 21--22; of hind femora, ♂, 14--16, ♀, 16.8--17.5; of
											ovipositor, 10--11.5 mm.
									

									Tuckerton, N. Jer., Sept. 1 (Davis) ; Ocean View, N. Jer.,
										and Whitestone, Va., Aug. 30, Sept. 26 (Fox), Described from
										Cedar Keys, Fla., where 20 or more specimens were taken by R. & H. August
										15, from among tall grasses in the flooded salt marshes.  Not known elsewhere from that State. The hind femora in the original
										description were said to be unarmed, and Davis (1908, 223)
										therefore redescribed this species as O. crusculum from
										specimens taken at Tuckerton, N. Jer., and on Staten Island, N. Y., most of
										which had the femora armed. Since that date it has been found at numerous places
										along the coast from Long Island to south Georgia. It occurs for the most part
										among the tall marsh grasses, Spartina, and rushes, Scirpus, growing on the tidal flats and in the adjoining
										brackish marshes.

									
										257. ORCHELIMUM MILITARE
											Rehn & Hebard, 1907, 311. Military Meadow Grasshopper.

										Size medium for the genus; form moderately slender. Green fading to
											clay-yellow; head dull yellow, sometimes brick red or with a reddish stripe
											down middle of face; occiput and prozona with two more or less distinct
											reddish-brown divergent lines. Fastigium feebly ascending, longer than broad,
											narrower at base than apex, the latter rounded. Antennæ three and one-half
											times the length of body. Metazona feebly ascending, male, not at all, female,
											finely punctate; lateral lobes with lower margin short, very oblique, its hind
											angle obtusely and narrowly rounded; convex callosity prominent, elliptical.
											Tegmina very narrow, surpassing hind femora 3 mm., exceeded by wings 2 mm.,
											their tips narrowly rounded. Cerci as in key and Fig. 183, e, their tips divergent and tooth directed strongly toward base of
											shaft; subgenital notch widely V-shaped. Hind femora unarmed, rarely with one
											or two spines beneath. Ovipositor straight and subequal in width to apical
											fourth, thence tapering and slightly upcurved to the very acute apex (Fig.
											184, c.) Length of body, ♂ and ♀, 18--22; of pronotum, ♂ and
											♀, 4.5--5; of tegmina, ♂, 23--25.5, ♀, 24--25.4; of hind femora, ♂, 17--17.8,
											♀, 17.5--18; of ovipositor, 15.2 mm.
									

									LaGrange; Fla., Sept. 13 (Davis). Described from three
										specimens taken Aug. 17 at Gainesville, Fla., from a marshy sinkhole in pine
										woods. Other recorded localities in that State are Jacksonville, Atlantic Beach,
										Crestview and Detroit. The known range of this trim-bodied species extends from
										Speedwell, N. Jer., south to southern Florida, Nugent, Miss., and southeastern
										Louisiana. It is an inland species, found for the most part among grasses in
										open pine woods and along the borders of marshes and lakes.

									
										258. ORCHELIMUM VOLANTUM
											McNeill, 1891, 26. Nimble Meadow Grasshopper.

										Size medium or above; form moderately robust. Pale translucent
											brownish-green; lower half of lateral lobes and meso- and metapleura brighter
											green; occiput and prozona usually with two dark stripes which are feebly
											divergent; hind tibiæ and ovipositor pale reddish-brown. Fastigium narrow at
											base, moderately ascending, its apical portion wider with sides rounded.
											Pronotum short, subsellate in male; lateral lobes as long  as deep, both their hind and lower margins oblique and meeting in
											a rounded angle; humeral sinus distinct but broad and rather, shallow (Fig.
											184, d.) Tegmina surpassing hind femora about 2 mm.,
											exceeded by wings 3 mm., those of female strongly reticulate. Hind femora
											rather short and stout, armed beneath with one to four very short spines.
											Cerci as in key and Fig. 183, f, the tooth with base broad
											and flat. Apex of subgenital plate subtruncate, styles short and very slender.
											Ovipositor very similar to that of O. gladiator, being very
											long and stout, nearly straight above, the under side regularly curved, its
											apical third sloping rapidly to an acute apex. Length of body, ♂, 17--20, ♀,
											20--25; of pronotum, ♂, 3.7--4.5, ♀, 4--5; of tegmina, ♂, 19--24, ♀, 24--30;
											of hind femora, ♂, 15--16.5, ♀, 17--19; of ovipositor, 9--10.5 mm.
									

									In Indiana volantum has been taken in Vigo, Fulton, Marshall
										and Starke counties. It is found most abundantly during August and September on
										the leaves and stems of a tall, broad-leaved knotweed, Polygonum
											amphibium L., which grows luxuriantly in the shallow waters about the
										margins of the larger ponds and lakes. Several other "green grasshoppers,"
										notable among which are Conocephalus attenuatus (Scudd.) and
											Orchelimum nigripes Scudd., frequent this plant in large
										numbers. Keeping company with them an occasional specimen of O.
											volantum is seen, but, being an active leaper, it often escapes amidst
										the dense foliage of the knot-weed before its capture can be effected. Its less
										robust body, longer armed posterior femora and long tegmina readily distinguish
										the female of this species from O. gladiator, the only other
										Indiana form which has an ovipositor shaped like that of volantum. The O. bruneri
										Blatchley (1893c, 92) is a synonym.
									
										Fig. 187. a, Outline of stridulating field of male of O.
												militare; b, same of O. volantum, X 3; c, outline of
											male type of O. bradleyi, X 1.8. (After R. & H.)
									
									The known range of typical O. volantum is rather limited,
										extending from Sarnia, Ont., and northern Ohio west to eastern Nebraska and
										south to central Indiana and Douglas Co., Kansas. McNeill (1891,)
										took his types "from a clump of rank growing Sagittaria
											variabilis Englm., on the banks of Rock River, Henry Co., Ill., being
										attracted to them by their peculiar stridulation." Their song, he says, "had a
										new note in it and may be represented as follows: zip-zip,
											kr-ze-e-e, kr-ze-e-e, the last part of the song not lasting more than a
										half to three-quarters of a second and always preceded by the sound which I
										represent imperfectly by kr."


									

									Walker (1905, 38) found volantum very abundant
										in southern Ontario where it occurs among the rushes and Sagittaria, growing in open marshes bordering the streams. He says:
										"McNeill has well represented its song, but I have never noticed the preliminary
											zip-zip."

									
										259. ORCHELIMUM BRADLEYI
											Rehn & Hebard, 1915a, 73. Bradley's Meadow
											Grasshopper.

										Very similar to O. volantum. Differs in its larger size,
											with fore and middle femora more distinctly tapering and basal two-thirds of
											hind femora more swollen. Male with cercus differing as described in key, the
											dorsal surface of the shaft inflated near middle and with a curved carinate
											ridge on basal half. Ovipositor more than half the length of hind femora. its
											apical half gradually narrowing to apex; upper margin nearly straight, the
											lower one straight from base to middle (Figs. 183, 184, g.)
											Length of body, ♂, 23.2--25, ♀, 21.5--23.6; of pronotum, ♂, 4.8--5, ♀,
											4.9--5.2; of tegmina, ♂, 25.7--27.7, ♀, 26--28.9; of hind femora, ♂, 19--20,
											♀, 18.9-21.2; of ovipositor, 10.4--11.5 mm. (Fig. 187, c.)
									

									Dunedin, Fla., June 10 (W. S. B.) ; Wilmington, N. Car., Aug.
										1 (Davis.) Ranges from southeastern North Carolina south to
										central western Florida and inland as far as the Okeefenokee Swamp of southern
										Georgia. In Florida it is known only from Jacksonville, Tallahassee and Dunedin.
										Dr. J. C. Bradley, who collected the types, furnished the following notes to R.
										& H. regarding their habits: 
											"In the eastern half of the Okeefenokee Swamp are extensive so-called
												prairies. These are really inundated plains grown up with sawgrass and
												maiden-cane, or in places open shallow lakes covered with a multitude of
												water plants. The natives of the Okeefenokee told us of diving grasshoppers
												which lived on these prairies, and in making the trip to the Chase Prairies
												in September, 1913, I found these grasshoppers in great abundance in the
												grass-like plants growing out of the water or along the banks of the old
												canal. As the boat approached them they jumped from the grass into the
												water, completely disappearing, and so quick were they to do this when
												alarmed that it was only after some difficulty that I succeeded in catching
												a series of specimens."
										
									

									This aquatic habit is also recorded by Engelhardt68 who says: "Of interest is the aquatic habit of Orchelimum volantum which was abundant about the grassy borders
										of Greenfield Pond near Wilmington, N. Car. When pursued and hard pressed it
										would dive into the water and cling to the submerged grass stems or the under
										side of a water-lily leaf, where it remained for several minutes, sustained by a
										supply of air which showed in glistening 68Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., XVIII,
												1910o, 130. The first records of O. bradleyi,
												R. & H. (1911) and Sherman and Brimley (1911)
											were made under the name of volantum McNeill, to which it is
											very closely allied and of which it may prove to be only a southern
											race.
										 bubbles adhering to its body." R. & H.
											(1915a, 71) have recorded O. military as having a
										similar habit, and it may be quite common among the subaquatic species of the
										genus.
								
							

							
								VI. CONOCEPHALUS
									Thunberg, 1815, 271. (Gr., "conical" + "head") THE SMALLER
									MEADOW GRASSHOPPERS.

								This genus, the Xiphidion or Xiphidium of
									most recent writers and of my former work (1903, 371), comprises the smallest of
									our winged Tettigoniidæ. The genus is very close to Orchelimum,
									the characters given in the generic key, p. 534 being the principal ones used for
									their separation. In addition, as stated by R. & H. (1915b, 156),
									in Conocephalus "the stridulating field of the male tegmen is
									normally smaller, narrower and less extensive than in Orchelimum, the vicinity of the arcuate vein not strongly produced or
									overhanging and, when looking from the dorsum, the humeral trunk is never hidden.
									The male cerci, though variable, do not in any of our species, exhibit the type
									found in the majority of the species of Orchelimum in which the
									tooth is placed in a more or less decided socket-like depression. All of the
									American species have the cerci unispinose and the subgenital plate is truncate
									distad in the great majority of them." The ovipositor is for the most part
									straight and often of great length, though distinctly curved in C.
										nemoralis and evidently though faintly so in a few other forms. As already
									noted under Orchelimum, all these minor differences are
									comparative only, there being not a single fixed differential character to
									distinguish the two genera. Their separation in literature is therefore really
									more a matter of convenience for treatment of an otherwise very bulky aggregation
									of forms than a natural grouping of allied insects.
								The tegmina and wings of most of the species of Conocephalus
									are dimorphic in length. A smaller number are dimorphic in color, while a few
									possess ovipositors differing greatly in length. The variations in wing length and
									color in the same species seem to be abrupt, with no intervening forms. There are
									long-winged and short-winged forms of the same species, but none with the wings of
									medium length; and when a brown form is tinged with green, or vice versa, the
									amount of the different color varies but little. Ten of the 13 eastern species are
									thus dimorphic as regards the length of the wings, the short-winged individuals,
									as far as my observation goes, far outnumbering those with the wings fully
									developed All the macropterous forms have the wings 
									passing the tegmina 2 to 4 mm., while in the brachypterous forms the tegmina are
									as long as or longer than the wings. Of the variations in the length of the
									tegmina Bruner (1891, 59) has well said: "In the genera Xiphidium and Orchelimum wing length is a character not
									to be relied upon as a specific or even varietal difference"; yet Redtenbacher, in
									his "Monographie der Conocephaliden," separated a number of his species by this
									character alone, and I can find no mention in his work of the fact that such a
									variation exists.
								The majority of the inland species of Conocephalus are more
									xerophytic in habitat than those of Orchelimum, occurring for
									the most part in dry upland localities rather than in marshes or about the margins
									of lakes and streams. The borders of cultivated fields, orchards and gardens,
									edges of thickets and clumps of vines or briers in open woodland are their
									favorite abiding places. The call notes of the males are in general lower, softer
									and more lisping than those of the same sex of Orchelimum.
										Allard, (1914) writes of these notes as follows: 
										"Very noticeable differences in the manner of stridulation characterize many
											of the species of Xiphidion. According to the character of
											the notes these insects may be grouped into three classes. Those of the first
											class always produce a few, brief staccato lisps followed by a more or less
											prolonged, lisping, monotone, or in the case of X. nemorale
											the staccato lisps precede from two to thirty-two brief phrases rapidly
											repeated, A number of Xiphidions in this class stridulate in quite the same
											manner as the more common species of Orchelimum. Although
											barely audible, the stridulations of X. fasciatum in
											delivery and duration are an almost perfect reproduction of the staccato lisps
											and succeeding monotone characteristic of Orchelimum vulgare
											or O. molossum.
										"The notes of Xiphidions in the second class consist of weak, lisping phrases
											alone, as staccato lisps are quite wanting. The stridulations of X. allardi are of this character. Among the Orchelimums this is also the habit of stridulation of O.
												minor. In the stridulations of Xiphidions of the third class, staccato
											lisps are also wanting, but the note is a long-continued, lisping monotone,
											similar to that of some of the cone-headed grasshoppers, although not nearly
											as loud and penetrating. X. strictum stridulates in this
											manner."
									
								

								The reasons for the replacement of the well known generic name Xiphidium by Conocephalus, a name formerly used for the
									large cone-heads now placed under Neoconocephalus, are set forth
									by Caudell (1910a) and by R. & H. (1915b, 156), as
									follows: "In 1815 Thunberg erected the genus Conocephalus
									including in it 24 species; under one of these C. hemipterus (p.
									272) he placed as a synonym Locusta conocephalus of Fabricius,
									which citation  forms, under the International
									nomenclature rules, type designation by tautonomy and in consequence the species
									becomes the type of the genus Conocephalus."69
								Kirby (1906, 274) did not adopt this ruling but included the species
									formerly known as Xiphidion
									Serv. (1831) and Xiphidium
									Burmeister (1838) under the name Anisoptera
									Latreille (1829) which has priority over both. While I personally
									believe that the International ruling in this case is technical, arbitrary and
									nonsensical, I have followed it for two reasons. (a) It has been
									adopted by R. & H. in their synopsis of the genus and by other recent American
									writers, and not to adopt it would cause more confusion than even now exists. (b) If not adopted the name Anisoptera would
									have priority over Xiphidion and Xiphidium and
									a change of name would anyhow be necessary.
								The genus Conocephalus as here recognized comprises a large
									number of species and is represented in all parts of the world. Kirby included 91
									species under Anisoptera, 14 of which were from the United
									States, but of these several are known synonyms. Since his catalogue appeared
									seven additional species have been described by Caudell, R. & H. and Fox. In
									their synopsis of the North American forms R. & H. recognized 16 species and
									one variety. Of these 13 occur in the territory covered by this work. The portions
									of the following key pertaining to the male cerci and other characters of that sex
									are based largely on the key of R. & H. in their synopsis which was for the
									males only.

								
									Fig. 188. Outlines of subgenital plates of males of Conocephalus. a, allardi; b, fasciatus, X 5.5. Extremities of hind tibiæ of Conocephalus, X 20. c, fasciatus; d, saltans. e-m, Outlines of male cerci of Conocephalus,
										X 10. e, allardi; f, fasciatus; g, gracillimus; h, brevipennis; i, nemoralis; j, strictus; k, stictomerus; l, aigialus; m, nigropleurus. (After R. & H.)
								

								
									KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF CONOCEPHALUS.

									a. Hind tibiæ armed at apical extremity with three pairs of spurs
										(Fig.
								
								69Caudell (Ms.) also
									states that the properly designated type of Xiphidion has been
									proven to be congeneric with the Gryllus (Tettigonia)
										conocephalus of Linnæus, of which Conocephalus hemipterus
									Thunberg, the type of the genus Conocephalus is a synonym. As we
									cannot change the type of Xiphidion and its type is in the older
									genus Conocephalus, it falls in synonymy under that
									genus.


								

								
									a. 188, c); prosternum bispinose; tegmina (except in
										female of strictus) always distinctly longer than the
										pronotum.
									b. Apex of subgenital plate of male emarginate and armed with two
										strong, straight, feebly divergent spines (Fig. 188, a);styles
										absent; ovipositor longer than hind, femora. 260. ALLARDI.
									bb. Apex of subgenital plate of male not emarginate, usually truncate,
										unarmed; styles present, small and filiform (Fig. 188, b);
										ovipositor variable in length.
									c. Cerci of male armed on inner margin near middle with a stout tooth,
										the base of which is plainly visible from above (Fig. 188, e--j); hind femora very rarely armed beneath.
									d. Apical portion of cerci more or less depressed, its apex broad and
										rounded (Fig. 188, e--h); smaller and more
										slender, length of body, female, rarely over 14 mm.
									e. Tegmina always fully developed and longer than abdomen, exceeded by
										wings 2 to 3 mm.; form very slender; cerci of male slender, not strongly
										flattened on the inner side.
									f. Fastigium broader at apex than base, but slightly produced in front
										of eyes; abdomen feebly trifasciate, the median dark stripe broad; tympanum of
										male not unusually elongate; general color green. 261. FASCIATUS.
									ff. Fastigium with sides parallel or nearly so, produced in front of
										eyes a distance equal to width of eye; abdomen distinctly trifasciate, all the
										stripes narrow; tympanum of male unusually elongate; general color pale brown
										with a pinkish tinge. 262. GRACILLIMUS.
									ee. Tegmina and wings abbreviated, shorter than abdomen, very rarely
										fully developed; form more robust; cerci shorter, stouter, strongly flattened on
										the inner side. 263. BREVIPENNIS.
									dd. Apical portion of cerci not at all or very weakly flattened, the
										apex narrow, usually acuminate (Fig. 188, i, j); larger,
										length of body, female, 15 or more mm.
									g. Ovipositor about three-fourths the length of hind femora, its apical
										half with a gentle but evident upward curve (Fig. 189, j);
										cerci with apical portion short, conical, the tip rather blunt (Fig. 188, i); general color smoky or greenish brown. 264.
												NEMORALIS.
									gg. Ovipositor always much longer than hind femora, straight or nearly
										so (Fig. 189, k) ; cerci with apical portion very elongate,
										slender, the tip subacuminate (Fig. 188, j); general color
										green. 265. STRICTUS.
									cc. Cerci swollen at middle and armed on under side with a more slender
										tooth the base of which is scarcely visible from above (Fig. 188, k--m); apical portion of cerci strongly flattened;
										hind femora very rarely unarmed beneath.
									h. Cerci with swollen middle portion abruptly strongly narrowed, not
										attenuate-elongate (Fig. 188, k, 1); abdomen of male including
										cerci, with apical portion bright yellow in life. (Submaritime species.)


									

									i. Ovipositor almost straight, slightly longer than hind femora, the
										latter in life with prominent spots and dots of coral red (Figs. 189, l; 191, b); face orange with a vertical median
										reddish-brown stripe; fastigium narrow, about half the width of basal antennal
										joint. 266. STICTOMERUS.
									ii. Ovipositor broader, slightly shorter than hind femora, (Fig. 189,
											m), the latter without prominent reddish spots; face without
										median stripe; fastigium wider, about two-thirds the width of basal antennal
										joint. 267. AIGIALUS.
									hh. Cerci with swollen middle portion not abruptly narrowed, but
										gradually attenuate-elongate (Figs. 188, m; 189, a--c.)
									j. Sides of abdomen shining black, its upper surface dark brown;
										ovipositor straight, rather broad, slightly longer than hind hind femora. 268. NIGROPLEURUS.
									jj.  Sides of abdomen not shining black.
									k. Ovipositor much longer than body; cerci stout, feebly tapering, their
										apical half curved outward and flattened portion horizontal (Fig. 189, a.) (Inland species.) 269. ATTENUATUS.
									kk. Ovipositor at most but slightly longer than body; cerci more
										slender, the apical half distinctly tapering and incurved, the flattened
										portion, therefore, oblique (Fig. 189, b, c.) (Submaritime
										species).

									
										Fig. 89. a--e, Outlines of male cerci of Conocephalus, X
											10. a, attenuatus; b, nigropleuroides; c,
												spartinæ; d, saltans; e, viridifrons. f--k, Outlines of ovipositors of Conocephalus, X 2. f, allardi; g, fasciatus; h, gracillimus; i, brevipennis; j, nemoralis; k, strictus; 1, stictomerus; m, aigialus; n, spartinæ; o, viridifrons. (After R. & H.)
									

									l. Fastigium distinctly ascending, about one-half the width of basal
										antennal joint, its sides parallel; lateral lobes in great part dark brown;
										abdomen of male (in life) with basal half dark brown above, apical half bright
										orange. 270. NIGROPLEUROIDES.
									ll. Fastigium slightly ascending, two-thirds as wide as basal antennal
										joint, its sides feebly diverging from base forward; lateral lobes green or pale
										brown; abdomen of male pale brown above, its apical half pale orange. 271. SPARTINÆ.
									aa. Hind tibiæ armed at apex with but one pair of spurs (Fig. 188, d); prosternum without spines; tegmina pad-like, scarcely longer
										than pronotum; hind femora unarmed beneath.


									

									m. Face with a median reddish-brown stripe or blotch; apical portion of
										male cercus (beyond the tooth) longer than basal portion, distinctly incurved or
										twisted, its inner face near tip flattened, the tooth bent inward and downward
										(Fig. 189, d.) 272. SALTANS.
									mm. Face a pale uniform green; apical portion of cercus short, conical,
										not twisted or flattened within, the tooth stouter, horizontal or nearly so
										(Fig. 189, e.) 273. VIRIDIFRONS.
								

								
									260. CONOCEPHALUS ALLARDI
										(Caudell), 1910, 58. Allard's Meadow Grashopper.

									Size medium for the genus; form robust. General color green; head and
										pronotum with a dark stripe extending from vertex to hind margin of metazona,
										less distinct posteriorly; tegmina pale brownish-green, male, uniform green,
										female; hind femora spotted with reddish-brown, the knees fuscous; dorsum of
										abdomen including cerci dark brown. Fastigium feebly ascending, its greatest
										width about two-thirds that of basal joint of antennæ. Lateral lobes of pronotum
										very broad, their front margin straight, oblique and broadly rounded into the
										lower one which is nearly horizontal, its hind angle narrowly rounded; humeral
										sinus obsolete; convex callosity very broad. Tegmina covering three-fourths of
										abdomen, male, one-half, female, their tips broadly rounded. Hind femora unarmed
										beneath. Cerci of male stout, the tooth triangular, flat and broad at base, the
										apical portion of cercus behind it about twice as long as the basal width, the
										apex depressed, concave (Fig. 188, e.) Ovipositor straight,
										its apical fourth abruptly tapering (Fig. 189, f.) Length of
										body, ♂, 12, ♀, 15; of pronotum, ♂ and ♀, 3--3.4; of tegmina, ♂, 6.5, ♀, 5; of
										hind femora, ♂, 11.5--12.5, ♂, 13; of ovipositor, 15--17 mm.
								

								Caudell's types were taken by Allard on Tray Mountain, North Georgia, at an
									altitude of 4,309 feet. Known elsewhere only from Wytheville, Va., and Rabun Co.,
									Georgia. Of the type specimens Allard furnished Caudell the following notes: 
										"I first heard and captured specimens of this Xiphidion
											late in September, in a sunny, grassy spot in the woods at Indian Grave Gap,
											Towns County, North Georgia. A few days later I found it in similar sunny,
											open situations on Tray and Blue Mountains, in the immediate vicinity of
											Indian Grave Gap. It prefers the low weeds and short grass, and was very
											musical during the sunny hours of the day. Its song is strikingly unlike the
											notes of Xiphidion fasciatum or Xiphidion
												nemorale, as no staccato notes whatever precede the more or less
											prolonged lisping phrases. These phrases are soft, faint and often greatly
											prolonged. In sound quality they recall to mind the notes of Orchelimum minor."
									
								


								
									261. CONOCEPHALUS FASCIATUS
										(DeGeer), 1773, 458. Slender Meadow Grasshopper.

									Size small for the genus, form very slender. Face, sides of pronotum  and abdomen, and basal portion of ovipositor,
										green; tegmina and apical third of ovipositor pale reddish-brown; upper side of
										abdomen, and stripe on occiput and disk of pronotum darker brown; legs green,
										tarsi tinged with fuscous. Fastigium not ascending, its sides feebly diverging
										from base forward. Lateral lobes deeper than long, lower margin strongly
										oblique, its hind angle narrowly rounded; humeral sinus obsolete; convex
										callosity low, narrow. Tegmina surpassing hind femora 1 to 2 mm., exceeded by
										wings 2 to 3 mm. Cerci as in key and Fig. 188, f. Subgenital
										plate of male truncate. Ovipositor straight, about two-thirds as long as hind
										femora. Length of body, ♂, 12--13.5, ♀, 12--14.5; of pronotum, ♂, 3--3.5, ♀,
										2.8--3.2; of tegmina, ♂, 14--18, ♀, 15--19; of hind femora, ♂, 11--12, ♀,
										11.5--13; of ovipositor, 7.3--9.4 mm.
								

								This handsome little meadow grasshopper is abundant throughout Indiana in timothy
									and clover meadows and especially so about small streams in low-ground, blue-grass
									pastures. It is one of the first of the Tettigoniidæ to reach maturity, specimens
									having been taken in Vigo County as early as July 5, and it may be found until
									mid-October. In Florida it is also a common species having been taken by me at
									Gainesville, Lakeland and Dunedin, Oct. 24--Jan. 26, and recorded by other
									collectors from numerous stations, as far south as Miami and Detroit, but not from
									the southern keys. About Dunedin it occurs in old fields, along railway
									embankments and among the undergrowth in open pine woods. If no frosts occur
									adults are found until midwinter, and nymphs are very frequent in March and
									April.
								The known range of C. fasciatus is probably the widest of any
									American Tettigoniid, extending from New England and Nova Scotia north and west to
									Aweme, Manitoba, Wyoming and New Mexico, and south at least to Bermuda, southern
									Florida and northern Mexico. Piers (1918, 324) records it as very
									common throughout Nova Scotia, where it is the only true meadow grasshopper known.
									He says: "It frequents damp situations such as wet meadows and marshes and is
									found among moist thick patches of succulent and rank-growing grasses. Adults are
									met with from the middle of July until after hoar-frosts. The stridulation of the
									male is rather weak and to me sounds like the syllables, plee-e-e-e-e-e, tzit, tzit, tzit, tzit, the first part of the call being a
									rapid, vibrating note." Walker (1904, 338) says it is much the most
									abundant locustid found in Ontario, being as abundant at North Bay as along the
									southern boundary, adults appearing about mid-July and remaining until
									October.
								Allard (1911) notes its habits in New England as follows: "The tiny
										Xiphidium fasciatum DeGeer prefers the tangles of weeds and
									grasses bordering the grass fields, and may oftentimes  be found in large colonies. Its notes are extremely faint and in
									manner of delivery are the exact counterpart of an Orchelimum's
									notes. The staccato lisps nearly always precede the phrase tseeeeeeeeeeeeeee. The entire song may be written thus: Tip-tip-tip-tseeeeeeeeeeeeee. The entire stridulation is so faint as to
									almost escape the hearing. The staccato lisps tip-tip-tip were
									so feeble the writer could hear them only by the closest attention, although the
									wings could be seen in motion at the time."
								McNeill (1891, 24), writing of it about Moline, Ill., says: "It is
									abundant everywhere, in blue-grass meadows especially. Its song is a faint echo of
									that of Orchelimum vulgare, with the 'zip-zip'
									omitted. It is, I believe, the first of the green grasshoppers to reach maturity
									and its faint little quaver is the first note of the great chorus that sounds in
									all the meadows from mid-July until the first of October."
								The Orchelimum gracile
									Harris (1841, 131) is placed by R. & H. as a synonym of C. fasciatus, although not so considered by Bruner (1892a,
										265) and not so figured by Harris, loc. cit.

								
									262. CONOCEPHALUS GRACILLIMUS
										(Morse), 1901, 236. Graceful Meadow Grasshopper.

									Size and form of fasciatus. Pale brown; face and sides of
										abdomen usually greenish; occiput and disk of pronotum with a conspicuous dark
										brown median stripe; lateral lobes often also with a median dark stripe; abdomen
										usually with three narrow dark stripes, one above and one each side, the
										intervening spaces yellowish. Fastigium very narrow, feebly ascending, its sides
										very faintly divergent. Disk of pronotum subsellate, male, not at all, female;
										lateral lobes slightly longer than deep, subtriangular in outline, their front
										and lower margins continuous with a scarcely visible angle, lower hind angle
										narrowly rounded; humeral sinus distinct, shallow; convex callosity broad.
										Tegmina fully developed, very narrow, surpassing hind femora about 1.5 mm.,
										exceeded by wings 2--3 mm., their tips narrowly rounded. Hind femora very
										slender, unarmed. Cerci as in Fig. 188, g, more elongate than
										in fasciatus, their apical third strongly depressed.
										Ovipositor straight, about two-thirds the length of hind femora the apical half
										tapering evenly to an acute point (Fig. 189, h.) Length of
										body, ♂, 12--14, ♀, 13--15; of antennæ, 40--58; of pronotum, ♂, 3, ♀, 3.2; of
										tegmina, ♂, 14.5--17, ♀, 17--18.5; of hind femora, ♂, 10.5--12, ♀, 12--13; of
										ovipositor, 8 mm.
								

								Biscayne Bay, Miami, Cape Sable, Key West, Ft. Myers, Passe Grille and Dunedin,
									Fla.; Dec. 12--March 14 (W. S. B.). The types of Morse were from
									Capron and Biscayne Bay, and the species is recorded from numerous localities in
									the southern half and on the southern keys of Florida to which region it is
									apparently confined. About Dunedin it is found in small numbers throughout the
									winter, on both Hog Island and the mainland, 
									occurring mostly in the tall grasses about the margins of shallow ponds and low
									places in open pine woods. At Miami and Homestead R. & H. found the nymphs in
									great abundance. during March in the high grass of the everglades, while in July
									it was found to be common among the grasses on several of the keys. Dunedin is the
									most northern point at which it has been taken on the west coast.
								This is one of the smallest of our meadow grasshoppers and closely resembles C. fasciatus in general facies. It is readily distinguished,
									however, by its more slender form, more reddish-brown hue, with stripe of head and
									pronotum darker, and stripes of abdomen more distinct and especially by the
									different shape of lateral lobes and the longer, more tapering and more flattened
									male cerci.

								
									263. CONOCEPHALUS BREVIPENNIS
										(Scudder), 1862, 451. Short-winged Meadow Grasshopper.

									Size medium for the genus; form rather robust. Pale reddish-brown; the face
										and sides of pronotum usually green; stripe on occiput and disk of pronotum a
										very dark brown, margined each side with a narrow yellow line; tegmina and wings
										pale reddish-brown; ovipositor reddish-brown, darker toward apex. In the larger
										specimens (ensifer Scudd.) the general color is more green
										than brown; the sides of abdomen and fore and middle femora being usually green.
										Fastigium scarcely ascending, its sides feebly divergent, apex not as wide as
										basal joint of antennæ. Lateral lobes of pronotum about as long as deep, lower
										margin oblique, its front angle obtuse, hind one broadly rounded; humeral sinus
										scarcely evident. Tegmina usually reaching bases of cerci, male, covering only
										two-thirds of abdomen, female, rarely fully developed. Wings slightly shorter
										than tegmina in the common form, exceeding them 2--3 mm. in the long-winged
										form. Hind femora rather short, stout, usually unarmed beneath, rarely with 1--4
										short spines. Cerci of male as in key and Fig. 188, h, the
										apical third strongly compressed and obtuse, armed behind the middle with a
										rather flat, sharp-pointed tooth. Ovipositor straight, varying much in length,
										rarely with a faint upward curve, the lower margin with apical fifth tapering to
										the acute apex (Fig. 189, i.) Length of body, ♂, 11--12.5, ♀,
										11--14; of pronotum, ♂, 3--3.5, ♀, 3--4; of tegmina, short-winged, ♂, 7--10, ♀,
										7--8.5; of tegmina, long-winged, ♀, 14; of hind femora, ♂, 10--13, ♀, 11--13.5;
										of ovipositor, 9--14 mm. (Fig. 190.)
								
								
									Fig. 190. Female. Natural size. (After Beutenmuller.)
								

								An abundant species throughout Indiana, frequenting the same localities as fasciatus and reaching maturity about a fortnight later. The X. ensifer
									Scudder (1862, 451), described from Illinois has, as suggested by me
									(1903, 375), been shown to be only a large form of 
									C. brevipennis and has been placed by R. & H. as a synonym
									of that species.
								This larger form differs from other meadow grasshoppers in the manner of
									oviposition, as, instead of always depositing its eggs in the stems of grasses, it
									sometimes seeks the turnip-shaped gall so common on certain species of Salix (willow), and oviposits between their scales. The gall is
									not formed by the grasshopper, but by a dipterous insect belonging to the family
										Cecidomyidæ. Although I have never seen the eggs deposited I
									have on a number of occasions found them within the galls, but did not know to
									what insect they belonged until Wheeler (1890) published his
									excellent account of the oviposition of this species as noted in Wisconsin. From
									that I quote as follows: 
										"On September 8th I observed a female in the act of oviposition. She was
											perched with her head turned toward the apex of the gall. Slowly and sedately
											she thrust her sword-like ovipositor down between the leaves, and, after
											depositing an egg, as slowly withdrew the organ in order to recommence the
											same operation, after taking a few steps to one side of where she had been at
											work. She soon observed me and slipped away without completing her task. The
											number of eggs found in a gall varies considerably. Sometimes but two or three
											will be found, more frequently from 50 to 100. In one small gall I counted
											170. The egg is cream-colored, very thin, elongate oval in outline, and
											measures 4x1 mm."70
										
									
								

								In Indiana the young of C. brevipennis emerge about the middle
									of May and reach maturity about August 10. One which was still in the nymph stage
									on October 21st, was found to have a white hairworm, Gordius sp?
									eight and a half inches long in its abdomen. The development of the nymph had
									probably been retarded by the presence of the parasite. Long-winged forms of this
									species are occasionally met with, but I have taken only one, and R. & H.
									state that only 3.2 per cent of the 555 specimens examined by them were
									macropterous. Two macropterous females sent in by Hubbell from Jackson Co., Mich.,
									vary but slightly in size, yet the ovipositors measure respectively 9.3 and 12 mm.
									in length.
								The known range of C. brevipennis is a wide one, extending from
									Maine and Montreal north and west to Algonquin Park, Ontario, northern Minnesota
									and Nebraska, and south and southwest to northern Florida and Dallas, Texas. In
									Florida it appears to be very scarce, being known definitely only from Atlantic
									Beach, South Jacksonville and Gainesville.
								70B. D. Walsh
										(Proc. Ent. Soc. Phil., III, 1864, 232), recorded the finding on numerous
									occasions, of the eggs of an Orchelimum in the turnip-shaped
									galls of Salix cordata. Their shape and proportional dimensions,
									as given by him, differ much from those of C. brevipennis, as
									they were cylindrical, .16 to .17 of an inch long, and seven times as long as wide
										(W. S. B.).




								

								Walker (1904a, 339) says that C. brevipennis is
									"nearly as common as fasciatus in southern Ontario, but becomes
									scarcer to the north of Muskoka. It reaches maturity about the first of August and
									remains well into October. It was not very common in Algonquin Park where it seems
									to prefer the vicinity of rank herbs and bushes in more or less shady spots. The
									note of the male is very like that of fasciatus. The zips are emitted at intervals of about one second, one or two
									being produced at a time."
								Of the song of C. brevipennis
									Allard (1911) has written: 
										"I could not determine its stridulations in the field, so a number of males
											and females were placed in a pasteboard box together with some grass. In a few
											minutes a number were in continuous song throughout the afternoon and night.
											The stridulations of this Xiphidium are the least audible of
											any locust the writer has ever observed. Although a persistent singer, the
											notes become inaudible only a few feet away. In the fields they are quite lost
											amidst the sounds of rustling foliage, the chirpings of crickets, etc. The
											notes of brevipenne are very brief and much more hurried in
											their delivery than those of X. fasciatum. In this respect
											they approach more nearly the dainty stridulations of X.
												nemorale Scudd. In the song of brevipenne usually
											only one or two almost inaudible staccato lisps precede one, two or even three
											of the brief, faint phrases, tseeeeeee-tseeeeeee. These are
											of much longer duration in the song of fasciatum, and are
											rarely heard without the preceding staccato lisps which are of indefinite
											number."
									
								

								In addition to X. ensifer Scudder, R. & H. have made X. gossypii
									Scudd., (1875, 461), described from Texas and Mississippi, a synonym
									of C. brevipennis.

								
									264. CONOCEPHALUS NEMORALIS
										(Scudder), 1875, 462. Woodland Grasshopper.

									Size medium; form robust. General color dark greenish-brown; tegmina
										yellowish-brown with front or costal area fuscous; dorsal stripe of occiput and
										pronotum a paler grayish-brown margined each side with a narrow yellowish line;
										all the femora punctate with reddish dots; tarsi and knees of hind femora dusky.
										Fastigium but faintly ascending, its sides strongly diverging from base forward,
										the apical portion bluntly rounded, as wide as or slightly wider than basal
										joint of antennæ. Pronotum distinctly subsellate, male, very feebly so, female;
										lateral lobes with front margin broadly curved into the lower one, the usual
										intervening angle obsolete, lower hind angle broadly rounded, humeral sinus
										wanting. Tegmina covering two-thirds of abdomen, male, about one-half, female;
										very rarely fully developed, their tips broadly rounded; veins and cross-veins
										unusually prominent, giving them a coarse and scabrous look; tympanum of male
										broad and elevated. Hind femora unarmed beneath. Cerci and ovipositor as in key
										and Figs. 188, 189. Length of body, ♂, 13--14, ♀, 14--15; of pronotum, ♂ and ♀,
										3.7--4.2; of tegmina, ♂, 6--8, ♀, 5.5--6.2; of hind femora, ♂, 11--12, ♀, 13; of
										ovipositor, 8--9.2 mm.
								

								This handsome brown species is a common insect in central  and southern Indiana, but has not yet been taken north of Lafayette.
									It reaches maturity about August 1st, and from then until after heavy frosts may
									be found in numbers along the borders of dry, upland woods, fence rows, and
									roadsides, where it delights to rest on the low shrubs, blackberry bushes, or
									coarse weeds usually growing in such localities. On sunny afternoons of mid-autumn
									it is especially abundant on the lower parts of the rail and board fences, the
									male uttering his faint and monotonous love call--a sort of ch-e-e-e-e--ch-e-e-e-e, continuously repeated--the female but a short
									distance away, a motionless, patient, and apparently attentive listener. When in
										coitu the male does not mount the back of the female, but,
									with his body reversed, is dragged about by her, this being the common practice of
									all the species of Conocephalus and Orchelimum. The females at times evidently oviposit in decaying wood, as on
									several occasions I have found them on old fence posts and rails with their
									ovipositors inserted the full length in the wood.
								The types of Scudder were from Dallas Co., Iowa, and the known range of nemoralis extends from eastern New York and Pennsylvania north and
									west to Minnesota and Lincoln, Nebr., and south and southwest to Asheville, N.
									Car., Clarksville, Tenn., and Wichita, Kansas. It is not known from Michigan but
									Bruner says it is common in the wooded portions of Nebraska, and McAtee and
									Caudell mention it as the most common species of the genus about Washington, D. C.
									At Moline, Ill., McNeill (1891) found it "most commonly on sparsely
									wooded and rather barren hillsides. The song is louder than that of fasciatum. It consists of two parts, the first a short, abrupt zip, and the second the familiar z-e-e, which
									lasts about half a second, and is made from one to five times. The zip is not repeated."
								C. nemoralis appears to be a sort of connecting link between
										Orchelimum and Conocephalus. In its rather
									bulky body, large tympanum of male and curved ovipositor it resembles an Orchelimum but the short tegmina and the truncate subgenital plate
									of male agree better with the characters of Conocephalus.
									Macropterous individuals are very rare, fewer than half a dozen having been
									recorded. The Xiphidium curtipenne
									Redt. (1891, 522) is a synonym.

								
									265. CONOCEPHALUS STRICTUS
										(Scudder), 1875, 460. Straight-lanced Grasshopper.

									Size large for the genus; form rather slender. Sides of head and body and
										all the femora green; occiput and pronotum with the usual reddish.  brown stripe narrowly edged with whitish,
										especially on the fastigium; tegmina reddish-brown; dorsum of abdomen with a
										dark brown band, darker where it meets the green on sides; cerci and ovipositor
										dark brown. Fastigium not at all ascending, its sides diverging, broadly
										rounded, its greatest width more than one-third the interocular space. Pronotum
										not at all sellate; lateral lobes deeper than long, their front and lower
										margins straight, their angle broadly obtusely rounded, the lower hind angle
										broadly rounded; humeral sinus evident but very shallow. Tegmina about half the
										length of abdomen, male, one-third its length, very short and padlike, female,
										their tips broadly rounded; in the very rare long-winged form almost reaching
										the hind knees and exceeded by wings 4 mm. Hind femora unarmed beneath. Cerci as
										in key and Fig. 188, j. Ovipositor straight, very slender,
										longer than the body (Fig. 189, k.) Length of body, ♂, 14--15,
										♀, 17--18; of pronotum, ♂, 3.5--4, ♀, 4--4.5; of tegmina, short-winged, ♂, 5--6,
										♀, 3.5--4.5; long-winged, ♀, 16; of hind femora, ♂, 13--14, ♀, 15--16.5; of
										ovipositor, 18--32 mm. (Fig. 190a.)
								
								
									Fig. 190a. Female. X 2. (After Forbes.)
								

								This is a common species in the western a n d northern parts of Indiana, where it
									frequents, for the most part, dry upland meadows, open pastures and prairies, and
									reaches maturity about August 1st. The mature females are usually much more
									abundant than the males and vary much in size. It is an active leaper and tumbler
									and like several of its allies, often strives to escape detection by burrowing
									beneath fallen weeds and grasses. About Lafayette Fox (1915) found it
									"abundant in dry open grass land and a common associate of Syrbula
										admirabilis (Uhler). Adults were taken July 31, were common until Sept. 5,
									but by October 3 had become very scarce." The long-winged form is everywhere very
									scarce, only one female from Vigo County having been noted in Indiana, while R.
									& H. report only eleven in more than 500 adults examined. The species is the
									largest of the genus occurring in the United States and the range in the length of
									the ovipositor is greater than in any other, being over 14 mm.
								The types of Scudder were from Dallas, Texas, but it is known from Staten Island,
									N. Y., north and west to western South Dakota and Nebraska and south and southwest
									to North Carolina, Oklahoma, Texas and Arizona. Mead (1904) reported
									it as common in central and northern Ohio, but in Michigan it is known only from
									Washtenaw County. In Virginia Fox (1917) found it  "moderately frequent in open undisturbed dry
									grasslands, especially partial to Andropogon, but taken also on
										Danthonia." In the dune region of northwestern Illinois Hart
									found it "common in damp grassy bottoms of old blow-outs," and in Nebraska
										Bruner (1893a) says it "is found over the entire State but is more
									common southward than elsewhere." Regarding the song of the male, Allard
										(1914) says: 
										"The notes of this species are much louder than those of any Xiphidion known to me. No staccato lisps precede the long lisping
											monotone s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s, which may continue several
											minutes without pause. Its note is thus similar to that of certain species of
												Neoconocephalus which have acquired the habit of prolonged
											stridulation. Although the Xiphidions usually keep well within the grass and
											low herbage of fields and meadows, the writer has observed X.
												strictum resting on shrubs several feet from the ground during
											stridulation."
									
								

								
									Fig. 191. a, Lateral outline of male type of Conocephalus
											aigialus; b, same of C. stictomerus, X 2.5. (After R.
										& H.)
								

								
									266. CONOCEPHALUS STICTOMERUS
										Rehn & Hebard, 1915b, 199. Spotted-legged Meadow
										Grasshopper.

									Size rather large; form slender. General color pale green; occiput and disk
										of pronotum with a broad median stripe of the same hue; tegmina and wings
										translucent pale yellowish-brown; all the femora with numerous small spots and
										dots of reddish-brown. Fastigium distinctly ascending, its sides feebly
										divergent Lateral lobes deeper than long, front margin nearly straight, broadly
										obtusely rounded into the weakly concave lower one, the hind angle of latter
										broadly rounded; humeral sinus scarcely evident. Tegmina usually covering
										three-fourths of abdomen, male, half its length, female, their tips sharply
										rounded. Hind femora armed beneath on outer carina with one to six short stout
										spines. Cerci as in key and Fig. 188, k. Length of body, ♂,
										12.4--15, ♀, 11.1--16; of pronotum, ♂, 3--3.5, ♀, 2.9--3.7; of tegmina,
										short-winged, ♂, 8--11.6, ♀, 6.9--9.8; long-winged, ♂, 18.3, ♀, 18.5; of hind
										femora, ♂, 12.3--15, ♀, 12.6--15.6; of ovipositor, 13.7--19.8 mm. (Fig. 191, b.)
								

								Tappahannock, Va., Sept. 10 (Fox). The types of R. & H.
									were from Cedar Springs, N. Jer., and were taken from "a heavy growth of panic
									grass, Panicum virgatum L., interspersed with various marsh
									plants in a limited marshy area on the border of a brackish stream."


								

								The known range of the species extends from the type locality to Raleigh, N.
									Car., along the middle Atlantic coastal plain where it inhabits the luxuriant
									grasses growing about the borders of marshes near both fresh and brackish water.
									In Virginia Fox (1917) found it "Occasional in tidal marshes,
									especially in the tall reeds, Spartina cynosuroides (L.) upon
									the spikelets of which it was observed feeding. It was apparently active only at
									night."

								
									267. CONOCEPHALUS AIGIALUS
										Rehn & Hebard, 1915b, 202. Sea Shore Meadow Grasshopper.

									Size medium; form robust, compact. Pale green; occiput and disk of pronotum
										with a broad pale brown stripe. Tegmina pale translucent brownish-yellow; apical
										half of male abdomen (in life) bright yellow, fading to dull clay-yellow; hind
										knees and all the tibiæ tinged with fuscous. Fastigium slightly ascending, its
										sides almost parallel. Eyes very large and prominent. Lateral lobes with front
										and lower margins merged, without evident angle; lower hind angle narrowly
										rounded; humeral sinus very shallow. Tegmina of delicate structure, usually
										abbreviate and covering three-fourths of abdomen, male, two-thirds, female,
										their tips obliquely sharply rounded; in macropterous form, surpassing hind
										femora 3 mm., exceeded by wings 4 mm. Hind femora armed beneath on outer margin
										with one to seven spines. Cerci as in key and Fig. 188, l.
										Length of body, ♂, 12--15, ♀, 11.6--17.2; of pronotum, ♂, 3.1--3.8, ♀, 3.2--4.1;
										of tegmina, short-winged, ♂, 6.8--9.6, ♀, 7.1--9.3; long-winged, ♂, 16--17.7, ♀,
										18-19.7; of hind femora, ♂, 10.7--13, ♀, 12.1--15.3; of ovipositor, 10.6--13.7
										mm. (Fig. 191, a.)
								

								South Jacksonville, Fla., Sept. 7 (Davis). The types were from
									Wrightsville, N. Car., and the known range of the species extends from Cape Henry,
									Va., to Pablo Beach, Fla. According to R. & H. (1915b, 203) it
									"inhabits salt marsh vegetation on the beaches and along the tidal rivers of the
									Atlantic coast where its habits are very similar to those of C.
										spartinæ (Fox) ; in the present case, however, the insect is found not out
									on the marshes, but in the halophytic vegetation along their borders and in
									similar vegetation on the beaches."

								
									268. CONOCEPHALUS NIGROPLEURUS
										(Bruner), 1891, 58. Black-sided Meadow Grasshopper.

									Size medium; form robust. Dimorphic in color; either with tegmina. legs,
										margins of lateral lobes and metazona bright grass-green or with these parts
										brownish-yellow, the green wholly absent; both forms with stripe on occiput and
										sides of abdomen shining black, the former narrowing in front to the width of
										fastigium and bordered each side with yellowish-white; the usual brown stripe on
										disk of pronotum but faintly defined in green form, in the brown one very
										evident; face and median areas of lateral lobes dark brown. Fastigium feebly
										ascending, its sides slightly  divergent, greatest
										width one-half that of basal antennal joint. Lateral lobes with front margin
										broadly rounded into the lower one, the angle between them very obtuse, scarcely
										evident; lower hind angle narrowly rounded, humeral sinus obsolete. Tegmina
										usually abbreviated, covering four-fifths of abdomen, male, two-thirds, female,
										their tips narrowly rounded; rarely macropterous, then exceeding hind femora 1.5
										mm., surpassed by wings 3.5 mm. Hind femora armed beneath on outer margin with
										one to five spines. Cerci as in key and Fig. 188, m. Length of
										body, ♂, 14--17, ♀, 15--16; of pronotum, ♂, 3--3.5, ♀, 3.2--3.6; of tegmina, ♂,
										8--9, ♀, 8--8.5, ♀, long-winged, 17-19; of hind femora, ♂, 13--14, ♀, 13.5--15;
										of ovipositor, 16--17.5. mm.
								

								This, one of,the most handsome of North American Orthoptera, occurs in suitable
									localities throughout Indiana, but is nowhere very common. It is a hygrophilous
									species, inhabiting only the margins of streams, ditches, large ponds and lakes,
									where it abides in the tall, rank grasses and sedges growing in the shade. It
									reaches the perfect stage about July 1st in southern Indiana, and in Fulton County
									has been taken as late as October 24th. The males leap actively when approached.
									The females are more clumsy and usually dive headlong into a bunch of fallen
									grass. They can then be most readily captured by clasping the hand about a bunch
									of grass stems or branches of shrubs, on the under side of which the insects have
									taken refuge. The long-winged form is very rare but a single female from Wells
									County being in the collection at hand. About Lafayette, Fox (1915,
										33) found nigropleurus frequent in herbaceous thickets,
									especially those forming the margins of bogs dominated by the rice cut-grass, Homalocenchrus oryzoides (L.), in both open and woodland
									situations and usually associated with Orchelimum nigripes
									Scudd."
								The known range of nigropleurus is somewhat limited, extending
									from Ithaca, N. Y., and southwestern Ontario west to Wisconsin and Nebraska, and
									south, so far as recorded, only to the Ohio River in Indiana. Bruner's types were
									from eastern Nebraska, and of its habits in that State he wrote: "This beautiful
									insect, which is our most active species of the genus, is quite plentiful among
									the rank vegetation on low moist ground, and is especially common in wet places
									where the 'cut grass' (Leersia oryzoides Swartz) grows. The
									supposition is that this grass offers a better place than usual for the deposition
									of its eggs, which are deposited between the leaves and stems of grass. Grapevines
									and other creeping plants which form matted clusters that afford shelter from the
									noonday sun and the bright light of day are favorite haunts of this and other
									species of our nocturnal grasshoppers and a few of the arboreal crickets. It
									occurs throughout  the eastern half of Nebraska
									along all the streams the banks of which are lined with shrubs and trees."

								
									269. CONOCEPHALUS ATTENUATUS
										(Scudder), 1869, 305. Lance-tailed Meadow Grasshopper.

									Size rather large; form very slender. General color dull brownish yellow, in
										some specimens tinged with greenish; occiput and pronotum with the usual median
										stripe reddish-brown; abdomen pale brown, male, reddish-brown, female; femora
										greenish-brown, rarely bright green, mottled with numerous small reddish dots;
										tibiæ and tarsi darker. Fastigium distinctly ascending, three-fourths as wide as
										basal joint of antennæ, its sides subparallel Antennæ very long, 73 mm. in one
										specimen at hand. Lateral lobes with front and lower margins merged without
										visible angle, lower hind angle sharply rounded, the margins forming it strongly
										upcurved; humeral sinus obsolete. Tegmina, when abbreviated covering about
										three-fourths of abdomen, female, reaching or slightly surpassing its tip, male;
										when fully developed, twice the length of abdomen and exceeded by wings 4 mm.
										Hind femora long, slender, armed beneath on outer carina with one to five
										spines. Cerci of male long, broad, with apical third curved outward, the basal
										tooth minute, slender (Fig. 189, a.) Ovipositor excessively
										long and slender, straight or gently curved upward, the margins very finely
										serrulate and apex acuminate. Length of body, ♂, 12--15, ♀, 13--16; of pronotum,
										♂, 2.6--3, ♀, 2.9-3.2; of tegmina, short-winged, ♂, 8.5--9.5, ♀, 8.5--10;
										long-winged, ♂, 16.5--19, ♀, 19; of hind femora, ♂, 11--14, ♀, 12-14; of
										ovipositor, 20-28 mm. (Fig. 192.)
								
								
									Fig. 192. Female. (After Lugger.)
								

								The short-winged form of this species is much more abundant locally in Indiana
									than the long-winged one. In Vigo County it was, at one time very plentiful about
									the borders of two large ponds in the Wabash River bottoms. In Knox County a few
									specimens were secured from the margin of a similar pond bordering a large cypress
									swamp, while in Kosciusko County it was found to be quite common in some marshes
									near Tippecanoe and Turkey lakes. In all these places the insects dwelt among the
									tall rank grasses and rushes growing in shallow water. The males are, as far as my
									experience goes, the most active leapers among the winged Tettigoniidæ, jumping a
									half dozen or more times without pause when flushed, and in the net leaping so
									rapidly from side to side as to prevent capture with the fingers. The females are
									evidently handicapped in their leaping powers by the excessive  length of the ovipositor, and so more often endeavor
									to escape by burrowing beneath the dense masses of fallen grass and reed stems
									which are always found in their accustomed haunts. The long winged form was first
									taken in some extensive low ground meadows in Kosciusko County. Here the long and
									short winged forms were about equally abundant. The former flew readily when
									approached, but to no great distance. A few of the long winged ones were also
									taken near Bass Lake, Starke County. The specimens from these northern counties
									are more slender bodied than those from the south, where only the short winged
									form has been found.
								Scudder's types were from Illinois and the known range of the species extends
									from eastern Pennsylvania and southwestern Ontario west to Minnesota, eastern
									Nebraska and Kansas, while Knox County, Ind., is the most southern station
									recorded east of the Mississippi. Walker states (1904, 341) that in southern
									Ontario it is plentiful but limited in distribution. "It frequents open marshy
									borders of creeks and ponds, where it leaps about with wonderful agility among the
									tall grasses and sedges." R. & H. (1915b, 209) state that at
									Cornwells, Pa., they found attenuatus "very scarce in high
									grasses and plants along the shore of the Delaware River, and in moderate numbers
									in a small marshy area adjoining. The males were usually found in the grass or
									perched on nearby plant leaves, whence they sprang away with alacrity. The females
									were never as conspicuous and sprang away with great swift leaps, then, hiding on
									the opposite sides of grass stems and leaves in the deepest tangles of vegetation,
									they proved very difficult to locate. Over its wide distribution it is doubtless
									restricted to damp spots and marsh areas."
								My Xiphidium scudderi (1892b, 26) was based on the short-winged
									form of C. attenuatus while the X. lanceolatum
									mentioned by Bruner (1891, 59) also refers to attenuatus. I find that the length of the ovipositor among the different
									species of Conocephalus is not at all dependent upon the age of
									the insect. In attenuatus it is almost as long after the third,
									and fully as long after the fourth moult as it is in the adult; while a female of
										strictus has been taken, with no vestige of tegmina, in which
									the ovipositor measured 18 mm. The eggs of attenuatus, as the
									length of the ovipositor indicates, are laid between the stems and leaves of the
									tall rank grasses among which the insect lives.

								
									270. CONOCEPHALUS NIGROPLEUROIDES
										(Fox), 1912, 116.

									Size small, form slender. Dark brown, often with a grayish-olive tinge;
										occiput and prozona with the usual median stripe broad and very  dark brown on the former, paler and often
										ill-defined on the latter, bordered each side with grayish-white; tegmina, legs
										and male cerci usually bluish- or sea-green, the base of tegmina often pale
										brown; abdomen as described in key, the sides grayish-brown. Tegmina almost
										reaching base of cerci, male, covering two-thirds or slightly more of abdomen,
										female, their tips narrowly rounded. Hind femora usually unarmed beneath,
										sometimes with one or two spines on lower outer margin. Cerci very similar to
										but more attenuate than those of spartinæ (Fig. 189, b.) Ovipositor slightly longer than hind femora, usually
										straight, sometimes with a distinct upward curve. Length of body, ♂, 11--13.2,
										♀, 11.2--13.5; of pronotum, ♂, 2.3--2.6, ♀, 2.6--3; of tegmina, ♂, 7, ♀,
										5.5--6.8; of hind femora, ♂, 10, ♀, 11--12; of ovipositor, 11--16 mm.
								

								Ocean View, N. Jer., August 30 (Fox). The types of Fox were
									from Cape May County, N. Jer., and the species ranges from that State along the
									Atlantic coast to southern Georgia, while on the Gulf coast it is known only from
									Cedar Keys, Fla. It occurs only on the salt marsh tidal flats, where, says Fox,
									"it is associated with C. spartinæ but is much scarcer than the
									latter and is almost entirely restricted to the tall Spartina grasses which fringe
									the banks of the numerous channels and ditches traversing the marshes."

								
									271. CONOCEPHALUS SPARTINÆ
										(Fox), 1912, 111. Salt Marsh Meadow Grasshopper.

									Size small; form slender. Usually grass-green in life, sometimes pale brown;
										tegmina translucent pale brown tinged with green, especially near apex; dorsal
										stripe of occiput and pronotum dark brown, sharply defined, bordered each side
										with yellowish; lateral lobes often with median area brown; abdomen of female
										with tip only orange; all the femora green with numerous reddish-brown dots;
										hind tibiæ tinged with dusky; tarsi brown. Fastigium as in key. Lateral lobes
										with front margin broadly rounded into lower one, their intervening angle
										absent; lower hind angle broadly rounded, humeral sinus wanting. Tegmina usually
										reaching last abdominal segment, male, covering about three-fourths of abdomen,
										female, their tips narrowly rounded; sometimes fully developed and then
										exceeding tips of hind femora by 3 mm. Hind femora usually armed beneath with
										one to four spines. Cerci as in key and Fig. 189, c.
										Ovipositor almost or fully as long as hind femora, rather broad and with a very
										slight upward curve (Fig. 189, n.) Length of body, ♂,
										10.8--13.5, ♀, 11--15; of pronotum, ♂, 2.3--3, ♀, 2.5--3; of tegmina, ♂,
										6--10.8, ♀, 5--5.8; of hind femora, ♂, 8.2--10.5, ♀, 9.2--11.2 mm., of
										ovipositor, 7.1--9.9 mm.
								

								Whitestone, Va., Sept. 26 (Fox); Cape Sable, Fla., Feb. 23 (W. S. B.) This is also a coastwise species ranging from Maine and
									Massachusetts, to Caple Sable, Fla., and on the Gulf coast from Everglade, Fla.,
									to southeastern Texas. As its specific name indicates, it occurs mostly among the
									salt marsh grasses of the genus Spartina. Only two males, one a
									nymph, were taken at  Cape Sable and they by
									sweeping these grasses on the tidal flats. Elsewhere in Florida it has been
									recorded definitely only from Miami and Everglade.
								R. & H. (1915b, 215) state that on the coast of New Jersey spartinæ is frequently to be found in great numbers on the salt
									marshes both in Spartina patens (Ait.) and Panicularia fluitans (L.) and can there be taken with ease. At Virginia
									Point, Texas. the series taken was chiefly macropterous and found in high and
									heavy grasses. "It was there difficult to capture as individuals were very
									restless and immediately sought shelter by jumping down low in the bunches of
									grass where they were very hard to follow."
								Morse, (1919) states that it is locally abundant on salt marshes
									along the New England coast from Old Orchard, Me., to Stamford, Conn., thus
									agreeing closely in extent of distribution with the seaside locust, Trimerotropis maritima (Harr.)
								The true status of the submaritime species, C. spartinæ,
										stictomerus, aigialus and nigropleuroides, is, in my
									opinion, as yet an unsolved problem. The first two named are very 'close to brevipennis and the last one to both attenuatus
									and nigropleurus. They differ mainly from these older named
									species in the form of the male cerci, length and form of ovipositor and details
									of coloration, all exceedingly plastic and variable characters. They are also
									closely related among themselves. For example, Fox states that the males of spartinæ and nigropleuroides are so close "that
									it was only after a long and arduous analysis and comparison that I was enabled to
									determine some apparently constant structural differences." Again, R. &
										H. (1915b, 210) state that nigropleuroides, though
									decidedly smaller and more slender than spartinæ in New Jersey,
									increases southward in size and robustness so that in Florida it is distinctly the
									larger and more robust of the two. They also say: "The variation in shape of the
									ovipositor is far greater in nigropleuroides than in any other
									American species of the genus," ranging from rather broad and approximately
									straight in New Jersey specimens to a distinctly though not strongly upward curve
									in part of the series from Cedar Keys, Fla. Before the descriptions of any of the
									four species as new forms were made, R. & H., one or both of them, had
									recorded spartinæ as X. nemorale and brevipenne; stictomerus as C. ensiferus;
										aigialus as X. nigropleurum? and C.
										brevipennis, and nigropleuroides as X.
										nigropleurum. This fact is mentioned to show which of the older species
									each of the new forms superficially most closely resembles.



								


								From these statements and from the study of the individuals at hand I believe
									that it will eventually be found that some of the four forms mentioned are only
									southern races or offshoots of one or more of the better known northern species,
									and that the modifications of color and secondary sexual organs have been brought
									about by the environment of the salt marsh areas which they inhabit. The series of
									specimens of each at present available is not sufficient for me to express a more
									exact opinion of their relationship, and I have therefore left them as placed by
									their authors.

								
									272. CONOCEPHALUS SALTANS
										(Scudder), 1872, 249. Wingless Prairie Grasshopper.

									Size very small; form very slender. General color dull reddish-brown;
										occiput and pronotum with the dark brown stripe bordered as usual each side with
										one of pale yellow, the latter prominent in fresh specimens; sides of abdomen
										also with a narrow yellow stripe. Fastigium strongly ascending, its sides
										rounded or distinctly divergent forward, the apex one-third wider than basal
										joint of antennæ. Lateral lobes with lower front angle obsolete, hind one
										obtusely rounded; humeral sinus evident, very shallow; convex callosity
										prominent. Tegmina usually strongly abbreviate, covering only about one-fourth
										of abdomen, their tips rounded; rarely macropterous, with the tegmina slightly
										exceeding the tips of hind femora; and exceeded by wings 5 mm. Cerci as in key
										and Fig. 189, d. Ovipositor as long as or longer than body,
										very feebly curved. Length of body, ♂, 11--14, ♀, 12.8--15.5; of pronotum, ♂ and
										♀, 3--3.5; of tegmina, short-winged ♂, 3--3.5, ♀, 2.5--2.7; long-winged ♀, 22;
										of hind femora, ♂ and ♀, 11--12; of ovipositor, 13.5--15 mm. (Fig. 193.)
								

								
									Fig. 193. (a) Female. Two and one-half times natural size.
											(b) Tip of male abdomen, showing form of cerci.
										(Original.)
								

								This, one of the smallest of the Conocephalinæ, has as yet been noted only at
									four localities in Indiana, namely, the border of a raw prairie near Heckland,
									Vigo Co., where it was found in small numbers Sept. 29--Oct. 21; near Lafayette,
									where Fox took a single male in company with C. attenuatus in a
									cat-tail cut-grass marsh; at Dune Park, Porter Co., Oct. 12, where a few
									individuals were taken from the clumps of grass on the base of a sand ridge, and
									near Pine, Lake Co., where a female was taken Sept. 3 by J. D. Hood. It appears to
									be less active than any other 
									Conocephalus, leaping a shorter distance when disturbed, and
									frequenting the surface of the ground rather than the stems of the tall prairie
									grasses among which it makes its home. It will probably be found, by close search,
									to inhabit most of the few remaining patches of raw prairie in the western part of
									the State.
								The known range of saltans cannot be definitely stated as it
									has heretofore been confused with the next species. Scudder's types were from the
									Platte River, Nebr., and its natural home and center of distribution is probably
									on the prairies of the middle west, extending from western Indiana north and west
									to Mandan and Hillsboro, N. Dak., Livingston, Mont., and Manitou, Col., and south
									and west to Thomasville, Ga., Dallas, Texas, and Springer, N. Mex. Long-winged
									examples from Dallas are in the Cambridge collection. It appears to be xerophilous
									in habits, as it occurs mainly on dry upland prairies and sandy barrens. The X. modestum
									Bruner (1891, 57) from Nebraska, and the X.
										teniatum
									Redt. (1891, 520) are synonyms.

								
									273. CONOCEPHALUS VIRIDIFRONS sp. nov. Green-faced
										Grasshopper.

									Shorter and more compact than saltans. Pale bluish-green,
										fading to dull greenish-yellow, the face immaculate; median stripe of vertex and
										pronotum paler brown than in saltans, the yellow stripe below
										less prominent; that on abdomen vague or wanting. Fastigium but slightly
										ascending, its sides subparallel, but slightly rounded, apex scarcely as wide as
										basal joint of antennæ. Pronotum as in saltans. Tegmina of
										male reaching nearly to middle of abdomen; one-fourth longer, better developed,
										with tips more narrowly rounded in both sexes than in saltans.
										Cerci as described in key and Fig. 189, e, their apical
										portion conical, not at all twisted, incurved or flattened within near tip as in
										saltans. Ovipositor shorter a little stouter and with a less evident upward
										curve than there. Length of body, ♂, 11--13, ♀, 12.5--14; of pronotum, ♂ and ♀,
										2.8--3.2; of tegmina, ♂, 4.5--5, ♀, 3; of hind femora, ♂ and ♀, 10--12; of
										ovipositor, 9.5--12.5 mm.
								

								Toronto, Ont., Aug. 10 (Walker) ; Central Park, Long Island, N.
									Y. Sept. 8 (Davis). This species is very distinct from sultans by the characters given in key and description.
									Comparisons have been made with the types of both saltans and
									its synonym, modestum at Cambridge and Philadelphia. The male in
									the Scudder collection from Red River Settlement, Man. mentioned by him (1862a,
									288) as X. brevipenne but placed by R. & H. (1915b,
										216) under C. saltans is a specimen of viridifrons.
								Walker (1904a, 340) took the Toronto specimens above mentioned Aug.
									9--Sept. 8, at High Park in company with Melanoplus dawsoni
									(Scudd.). They were found in open grassy uplands on sandy soil, where they were
									plentiful among Jersey-tea, sweet  fern and lupine.
									He stated: "My specimens are all peculiar in their coloration, being of a pale,
									almost bluish-green, instead of dull reddish-brown the usual color of saltans, according to the description."
								On account of the previous confusion of viridifrons with saltans the definite range of the former cannot be given. It is
									known, as stated, from the Red River of the North east to Toronto and south and
									southwest to Long Island, N. Y., New Jersey and Virginia.
								Morse (1919, 17) reports it, under the name of saltans, as "locally common on the sandy moors of Nantucket, Mass., among
									bunch grass, wild indigo and huckleberry bushes. The presence of this flightless
									grasshopper on Nantucket is of especial significance in its bearing on the
									geological conditions which resulted in the dispersal and present distribution of
									the characteristic plants and animals of the sandy coast-plain of New Jersey
									northeastward." In Virginia Fox found it at numerous localities during September
									and October, usually in coarse dry grasses, Andropogon, ill the
									vicinity of wooded areas.
							

							
								VII. ODONTOXIPHIDIUM
									Morse, 1901b, 129. (Gr., "toothed" + "sword.")

								Closely allied to Conocephalus. Differs by the characters given
									in the generic key, and in having the "pronotum subsellate, prolonged backward,
									covering the base of abdomen both above and on the sides, in correlation with the
									absence of flight organs." (Morse).

								
									274., ODONTOXIPHIDIUM APTERUM
										Morse, 1901b, 129. Wingless Meadow Grasshopper.

									Size small for the subfamily; form moderately robust. Reddish-brown; face,
										hind femora and sides of body green or greenish; occiput and prozona with the
										usual median stripe reddish-brown bordered each side by a narrow yellowish one;
										sides of abdomen, male, entire abdomen, female, fuscous-brown; all the femora
										thickly mottled with small reddish-brown dots. Antennæ very slender, four times
										as long as body. Fastigium feebly ascending, its sides slightly diverging
										forward, apex two-thirds as wide, male, fully as wide, female, as basal joint of
										antennæ. Disk of pronotum exceedingly smooth, the usual transverse sulcus
										obsolete; lateral lobes longer than deep, their front margin broadly rounded
										into the feebly sinuate lower one, the, latter with hind angle obtusely rounded;
										hind margin straight, oblique; humeral sinus absent. Tegmina of male conjointly
										oval, shorter than pronotum, the speculum of left tegmen strongly convex, its
										basal cross vein slender, covered by metazona, oblique vein abbreviated, the
										others subobsolete. Hind femora elongate, unarmed beneath, the basal third very
										stout. Cerci of male straight, very slender, cylindrical, bearing  on inner side of apical third a stout, straight,
										obtusely pointed tooth and at basal third a small black-pointed subdorsal
										denticle. Subgenital plate prolonged, almost reaching tips of cerci, broadly
										scoop-shaped, its tip subtruncate; styles very short, blunt. Ovipositor slender,
										straight, usually about five-sixths the length of hind femora but sometimes
										nearly one and a half times that of body. Length of body, ♂, 11--14, ♀, 11--18;
										of pronotum, ♂, 3.5--4, ♀, 4.5--5.3; of tegmina, ♂, 2--3; of hind femora, ♂,
										10--12, ♀, 13--15; of ovipositor, 10.5--15 mm.
								

								Hastings, Orlando and Dunedin, Fla., July 5--Jan. 1 (W. S. B.).
									About Dunedin this small Tettigoniid is frequent in late autumn and early winter
									but apparently succumbs to the first frost. It occurs mainly amidst the wire-grass
									and low huckleberry bushes of open pine woods, but also among the taller grasses
									growing in old fallow fields and on the sites of wet-weather ponds. It was
									described from Hastings, Fla., and is recorded by other collectors from numerous
									localities throughout the entire mainland and on the southern keys. . As will be
									noted by the measurements, the females vary much in size and in the length of
									ovipositor. They have been heretofore described as being totally apterous, but
									they have rudimentary tegmina concealed by the pronotum. In a specimen from
									Orlando these are large enough to protrude slightly beyond the pronotum. The males
									usually carry the cerci in a reflexed, almost perpendicular position within the
									cavity of the long projecting scoop-shaped subgenital plate.
								The known range of O. apterum extends from Fayetteville, N.
									Car., to Key West, Fla., its main distribution being in Georgia and Florida.
										R. & H. (1916, 267) say that "Throughout the low country of the
									Carolinas, Georgia and Florida this is one of the most ubiquitous species in the
									undergrowth of the pine woods and on the palmetto flats. At a number of localities
									it was particularly numerous about oak shoots: in such situations. The
									stridulation is a very faint and intermittent zip-zip-zee-zee-zee--zip-zee-zee, etc. The males when stridulating often
									climb high up in the undergrowth, sometimes three or four feet from the
									ground."

								
									274a. ODONTOXIPHIDIUM APTERUM AFFINE var. nov.

									Size and form of O. apterum. Differs as follows: Color
										paler; median dark stripe of occiput and prozona vague, the yellowish ones below
										it faint or wanting; abdomen without dark markings: in either sex. Fastigium of
										vertex more strongly ascending, its apical half with sides rounded, distinctly
										wider than middle. Pronotum less sellate; humeral sinus evident but faint. Cerci
										of male distinctly stouter, subdepressed, their apical portion subtriangular,
										the tooth at apical third stouter and slightly curved  inward and downward. Ovipositor more slender, and with an evident
										but faint downward curve beyond the middle. Other characters as in apterum, the measurements approximately the same.
								

								Ft. Myers and LaBelle, Fla., March 2--5; three males, two females (W. S. B.). Swept from low huckleberry bushes and other foliage along the
									margins of swales. The differential characters as above given are deemed
									sufficient to place this as a form of apterum worthy of a
									varietal name. It will probably be found only in the southern third of
									Florida.
							
						

						
							Subfamily V. DECTICINÆ. T>HE SHIELD-BEARERS.

							Tettigoniids of large size and peculiar appearance in that they are nearly wingless
								and have the pronotum more or less prolonged backward over one or more of the basal
								segments of abdomen, thus forming a buckler or shield, whence the common name. Our
								eastern forms agree in having the face broad, perpendicular or nearly so; eyes
								small, subglobose, separated by at least three times their own diameters; antennæ
								very slender, arising from between the inner lower margins of eyes, but little
								longer than the body; vertex short, one-third or more the width of interocular
								space, strongly declivent between the antennæ; pronotum with front margin truncate,
								hind one rounded or subtruncate; lateral lobes longer than deep; prosternum usually
								armed beneath with two erect spines; tegmina very short, rarely as long as pronotum,
								developed only as shrilling organs in male, often scarcely visible, female; wings
								absent or rudimentary; tarsi more or less depressed, their first two segments
								sulcate lengthwise on the sides: front tibiæ with a slit-like foramen (hearing
								organ) each side near base and an apical spine on their upper outer side; front coxæ
								spined; hind tibiæ armed below with four apical spines; hind tarsi with a free lobe
								(plantula) at base of first joint; cerci of male variable as to genera and species;
								ovipositor stout, nearly straight.
							According to Caudell only about 225 species of Decticinæ distributed among 47
								genera, were known in 1908. They are confined mostly to the temperate zones, 20 or
								more of the genera occurring in the United States. The main distribuation of these
								is west of the Mississippi, where some of the species are very abundant and do much
								damage to vegetation. East of that stream but two genera are represented, one of
								them by a single species. But little is known of the life history of our eastern
								forms. They  appear to be omnivorous in their choice
								of food, and, when kept in captivity, even cannibalistic. They are found for the
								most part in dry, upland open wooded districts or mountainous regions, where they
								are active during the day. On account of their comparatively wingless condition they
								probably do not wander far from their hatching place. In color they are usually a
								dull grayish- or yellowish-brown, their hues thus corresponding closely with the
								dead leaves and other herbage of their abiding places. As the males stridulate only
								at night, and the adults of both sexes move slowly and only when closely approached,
								they are seldom seen and are probably more plentiful than they appear to be. The
								principal literature pertaining to the subfamily which will be of interest to the
								American student is as follows: Herman, 1874; Scudder,
									1894a; Caudell, 1907, 1908; Rehn & Hebard,
									1916a.

							
								KEY TO EASTERN GENERA OF DECTICINÆ.71

								a. Ovipositor straight or nearly so (Fig. 195); tegmina of male shorter
									than pronotum; prosternum usually armed with a pair of spines; lateral lobes
									longer than deep. I. ATLANTICUS.
								aa. Ovipositor distinctly curved upward (Fig. 199); tegmina of male longer
									than pronotum, sometimes fully developed; prosternum unarmed; lateral lobes as
									deep as long. II. IDIONOTUS.
							

							
								I. ATLANTICUS
									Scudder, 1894a, 179. (Gr., "a mythical island.")

								The members of this genus possess the characters of the subfamily above given. In
									addition they have the head of medium size, not prominent, disk of pronotum much
									produced behind over the base of abdomen, front margin truncate; lateral carinæ
									always evident, sometimes gently rounded, again sharp and prominent; lateral lobes
									longer than deep, their front margins nearly straight and vertical, lower one
									short, oblique, the angle between the two obtuse, lower hind angle broadly
									rounded, hind margin long, oblique and sinuate; tegmina of male vaulted,
									overlapping, their stridulating field large but mostly concealed beneath the
									pronotum; tegmina of female wholly concealed; fore femora unarmed or with one to
									five spines on outer lower margin; hind femora variable in length and stoutness,
									their lower margins unarmed, or the inner one with several spines; last dorsal
									segment deeply emarginate at middle, the notch enclosing the small triangular or
									rounded deflexed supra-anal plate. Cerci of male subcylindrical, variable in
									length and thickness, armed within, 71A single specimen of Pediodectes (Stipator)
											nigromarginata Caudell, is recorded by that author (1907, 346) as being
										in the Scudder collection from Georgia, but it cannot be found and the record is
										probably erroneous, the species being otherwise known only from Kansas, Oklahoma
										and Texas.
									 at or behind the middle with a single tooth;
									subgenital plate of male either notched or subtruncate, its styles variable in
									length and thickness; of female always notched, usually deeply so. Ovipositor
									variable in length, usually straight, sometimes feebly curved downward, its tip
									acute.
								The synonymy of the species of the genus Atlanticus is very
									much confused. Until 1894 only three species, now included under that name, were
									known from the United States, two described from South Carolina by
										Burmeister (1838) under the names Decticus
										pachymerus and dorsalis, and one from Tennessee by
										Saussure (1859) as Orchesticus americanus.
									Burmeister's names were placed by Scudder (1862) under the Old World
									genus Thyreonotus (Serv.) and by him applied to two well known
									northern forms (one of them the americanus of Saussure) which
										R. & H. (1916a) aver are not the same as those described by
									Burmeister, though they have not seen the latter's types and base their
									conclusions mainly on the fact that the species to which Scudder applied the names
									do not, as far as known, occur in South Carolina. Scudder (1894a)
									founded Atlanticus and referred to it the northern forms which
									he had previously placed under Thyreonotus, and a third species,
										gibbosus, from Florida. Later (1900) he described a fourth
									species, testaceus, from Missouri?, R. & H.
										(1912) described A. glaber from Florida and Davis
										(1915a)
									A. monticola from North Carolina. Finally R. & H. in their
									Revision (1916a) applied Burmeister's names to two southern forms, placed
									Saussure's americanus (dorsalis of most authors) under Atlanticus, referred the northern form previously known as "pachymerus Burm." to testaceus Scudd., and
									described two forms as new, thus recognizing nine species of Atlanticus, all occurring east of the Mississippi, and all but two
									confined to that area.72
									Since no one knows, or probably ever will know, to what forms Burmeister's names
									should in reality be rightfully applied, I judge that the conclusions of R. &
									H. are as good as any that can be made, and to avoid stirring the hodge-podge
									still farther I have, in the main, adopted them.
								But two species of Atlanticus occur in Indiana and in their
									various stages are quite frequent from April 1st to September, 15th in dry upland
									woods and on sloping hillsides with a southern exposure, but are seldom, if ever,
									found in damp localities. On the first warm days of early spring the young begin
									to emerge and in suitable places for a month or more are among the most common
										72Scudder
											(I894a) and R. & H. (1916a) stated that Atlanticus was confined to the Atlantic slope of North America, but Rehn
										has recently described a species from China.
									 Orthopterans seen. They are much more active during
									early life than in the mature state when they crawl rather than leap. In captivity
									they feed as readily upon animal as upon vegetable food, and in the natural state
									probably feed upon the dead bodies of such small animals as they can find. The
									earliest hatched reach maturity in central Indiana about the first of June, and
									may then often be found resting on the leaves and stems of low shrubs and weeds,
									but seldom climb over two or three feet from the ground. The adults are far less
									numerous than the young, the vast majority of the latter probably falling a prey
									to the many ground-frequenting sparrows and other birds, as they do not hide by
									day as do the members of the genus Ceuthophilus.
								The following key is based largely on that of R. & H. in their Revision, the
									order being changed to agree with the sequence of the species treated, the
									language simplified and some additional characters given.

								
									Fig. 194. Structures of Atlanticus. a--i, Dorsal outlines of
										disk of male pronotum (p) and tegmina (t) when projecting, X 1.5; also outlines
										of subgenital plate of female showing shape of notch, X 2. a, of testaceus; b, pachymerus; c, davisi;
										d, monticola; e, americanus; f, gibbosus; g, dorsalis; h, calcaratus; i, glaber. j--l, Outlines of tips of hind
										tibiæ showing the inner apical spurs, X 5, j, testaceus; k,
											glaber; l, calcaratus. (After R. & H.)
								

								
									KEY TO AMERICAN SPECIES OF ATLANTICUS.

									a. Disk of pronotum distinctly narrower near apical third or fourth, its
										margins or lateral carinæ thence distinctly diverging backward, its length never
										twice the greatest width (Fig. 194, a--g.)
									b. Lateral carinæ of disk of pronotum sharp, the angles very distinct;
										tegmina of male never completely covered by the pronotum.
									c. Subgenital plate of male angularly emarginate but never deeply and
										narrowly cleft; notch of subgenital plate of female V- or U-shaped, the
										projections each side never long and sublanceolate (Fig. 194, a--d); cercus of male in front of tooth stout.
									d. Length of exposed portion of male tegmina more than half that of
										pronotum; hind femora less than twice as long as pronotum; notch of subgenital
										plate of female narrowly V-shaped, its side projections: short, broadly rounded
										(Fig.  194, a); ovipositor with
										apex tapering only on upper side, its tip therefore ventral (Fig. 195, a.) 275. TESTACEUS.
									dd. Length of projecting male tegmina not more than one-third that of
										pronotum; hind femora at least twice as long as disk of pronotum; lateral
										projection each side of notch of subgenital plate of female not broadly
										rounded.
									e. Ovipositor with apex tapering only on upper side, its tip therefore
										ventral (Fig. 195, b); hind femora of male 19 or more mm. in
										length; tegmina of male with tips slightly produced. 276. PACHYMERUS.
									ee. Ovipositor with apex tapering both above and below, the tip
										therefore median (Fig. 195, c, d); hind femora of male less
										than 19 mm.; tegmina of male with tips broadly rounded.
									f. Ovipositor straight; notch of subgenital plate of female very
										narrowly V-shaped (Figs. 194, 195, c.) 277.
												DAVISI.
									ff. Ovipositor feebly but distinctly curved; notch of subgenital plate
										of female U-shaped (Figs. 194, 195, d.) 278.
												MONTICOLA.
									cc. Subgenital plate of male narrowly and deeply cleft; notch of
										subgenital plate of female very deep, the projections each side elongate and
										narrowly rounded; cercus of male rather long, slender, subcylindrical (Fig. 195,
											j); ovipositor with apex tapering only on upper side, the
										tip ventral (Figs. 194, 195, e.) 279. AMERICANUS.
									bb. Lateral carinnæ of disk of pronotum obtusely rounded, distinct only
										on the posterior lobe; tegmina of male almost or wholly covered by the pronotum
										(Fig. 194, f.)

									
										Fig. 195. a--h, Outlines of ovipositor of Atlanticus, X
											1.5: a, of testaceus; b, pachymerus; c,
												davisi; d, monticola; e, americanus; f, dorsalis; g, gibbosus; h, glaber. i--k, Outlines of left cercus
											of male, X 4; i, davisi; j, americanus; k,
												dorsalis. (After R. & H.)
									

									g. Size large, length of body, male; 26--33 mm.; cercus of male
										elongate, tapering and with a long slender curved sub-basal tooth (Fig. 197, b); basal half of hind femora strongly swollen; disk of pronotum
										more narrow at apical fourth than at front margin (Fig. 194, f.) 280. GIBBOSUS.
									gg. Smaller, length of body, male, less than 26 mm.; cercus of male
										short, robust, its tooth short (Fig. 195, k); basal half of
										hind femora much more slender; disk of pronotum not more narrow at apical fourth
										than at front margin. 281. DORSALIS.
									aa. Disk of pronotum not or very feebly narrowed at any point, its  lateral carinæ subparallel or nearly so, its length
										always more than twice its greatest width (Fig. 194, h.)
									h. Middle apical spur on inner margin of hind tibiæ but little if any
										more than twice as long as the lower inner one (Fig. 194, k);
										prosternal spines present, elongate, slender. 282. GLABER.
									hh. Middle inner apical spur of hind tibiæ two and a half times or more
										as long as lower inner one (Fig. 194, 1); prosternal spines
										absent or very short. 283. CALCARATUS.
								

								
									275. ATLANTICUS TESTACEUS
										(Scudder), 1900, 97. Short-legged Shield-bearer.

									Size medium for the genus, form robust. Male.--Grayish or fuscous-brown;
										sides of pronotum and tegmina blackish, the former often shining, especially in
										the young; lateral lobes with a narrow curved yellowish line along the hind
										margin; exposed dorsal field of tegmina light brown; femora with numerous minute
										pale spots. Female.--Usually grayish or reddish-brown throughout, except the
										yellow line on side of pronotum, which is bordered above with a dash of black.
										Head large, set into pronotum almost to eyes. Antennæ slender, less than twice
										as long as body, the basal segment strongly flattened, about as wide as
										fastigium. Pronotum with disk large, its greatest width about two-thirds its
										length; lateral carinæ sharp, distinctly converging from base to apical fifth,
										then feebly diverging to apex; hind margin broadly rounded or subtruncate;
										lateral lobes with hind margin long, sinuous, very oblique. Tegmina of male
										exposed a distance at least equal to greatest width of pronotum, often more,
										their tips broadly rounded. Cerci of male subcylindrical, stout, tapering,
										feebly curved, rather bluntly pointed, the tooth at inner apical third short,
										blunt; apex of subgenital plate broadly shallowly emarginate; styles short,
										obtuse. Ovipositor straight, about as long as hind femora, its apical sixth
										tapering above to the acute tip. Length of body, ♂, 18--24, ♀, 19--25; of
										pronotum, ♂, 9--10.8, ♀, 8.8--10.4; of tegmina, ♂, 7--9; of hind femora, ♂,
										14.5--17, ♀, 16.5--21; of ovipositor, 18.5--23 mm. Greatest width of pronotum,
										♂, 6.3--7.8, ♀, 6.1--7.3 mm. (Fig. 196.)
								
								
									Fig. 196. Male. (After Lugger.)
								
								This bulky brown Orthopteron occurs throughout Indiana but is more common in the
									northern counties. It frequents for the most part dry open woodlands, thinly
									wooded rocky slopes and borders of thickets, where it crawls slowly over the
									fallen leaves being very clumsy in its movements. The earliest date on which a
									mature specimen has been noted was June 6th, in Vigo County, numerous specimens
									being taken between that date and June 20, while they may be found until after
									heavy frosts.
								The general range of A. testaceus is northern, it being the
									most common Atlanticus north of the Ohio and east of the  Mississippi, its known distribution extending from
									Vermont, Massachusetts and southern Ontario, west to Minnesota and central
									Illinois and south to Virginia and central Kentucky. It is the species heretofore
									recorded by most writers, myself included (1903, 393), as A.
										pachymerus (Burm.) and there is no direct evidence to prove that it is not
									that species.
								Davis (1893) has given a pleasing account of the song and habits of
										testaceus as noted on Staten Island, in part as follows: 
										"On June 26 I heard in a moist pasture a stridulation that was unknown to me.
											It much resembled that of Orchelimum vulgare, with the
											preliminary zip, zip omitted. It was a continuous z-e-e-e, with an occasional short ik, caused
											by the insect getting its wing covers ready for action after a period of
											silence. In due time I discovered, in a tussock of rank swampgrass, the brown
											songster, Thyreonotus pachymerus, perched on a dead leaf. He
											was transferred from the tussock to a tin can and at home I made a home for
											him in a larger can in which was a branch of post oak whose leaves soon dried,
											furnished innumerable nooks and crannies in which to hide. Usually, however,
											the insect did not hide at all but perched himself on one of the topmost
											leaves and there waved his antennæ after the manner of all long-horned
											Orthoptera. Starting with raspberries, he had the rest of the fruits in their
											season, including watermelon, of which he showed a marked appreciation. If I
											offered him a raspberry and then gradually drew it away, he would follow in
											the direction of the departing fruit, and would finally eat it from my hand.
											At night he stridulated with unabated zeal to the first of August when he
											began to be less sprightly. Finally his song, instead of filling the room, was
											but a faint sound and the end came on the tenth or eleventh of September."
									
								

								Allard (1911b, 118) says of the song of A.
										testaceus on Plummer's Island, Md.: "One was singing after dark very close
									to the ground on a dry rocky thinly-wooded hillside. Its notes have the same
									lisping character as an Orchelimum. The phrases are brief, but rapidly repeated,
									with irregular intervals of silence intervening; sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh. Several times while watching
									the insect stridulate by candle-light the writer lisped an approach to its notes
									and got an immediate response."
								At Moline, Ill., McNeill (1891) found the first adults on Aug. 9 and
									states that those kept in captivity showed a decided taste for animal food so that
									in the wild state it may be at least partly carnivorous.
								Osborn records a specimen from Camp Douglas, Wis., and Lugger figures and
									describes the species from Minnesota, stating that only a few were found but
									giving no definite locality. In Michigan it is known only from the Porcupine Mts.
									and Gun Lake. Walker (1905, 113) states that the only Ontario
									specimens he  had seen were taken at Arner, Aug. 9.
									"They were found in the more open parts of a dry upland wood consisting chiefly of
									oak. Most of them were found on the short grass which was growing on the slopes of
									a ravine in the wood."

								
									276. ATLANTICUS PACHYMERUS
										(Burmeister), 1838, 712.

									The important features of difference between this species, as identified by
										R. & H., and A. testaceus are given by those authors
										(1916a, 54) as follows: "Caudal femora in both sexes of pachymerus at least twice, male, or more than twice, female, as long as
										pronotal disk; cephalic and median limbs relatively longer; greatest caudal
										width of pronotal disk equal to 54 to 66 per cent of greatest length of same;
										prosternal spines more aciculate and elongate and mesosternal lobes more acute.
										Male with pronotum less expanded caudad, the divergence of lateral carinæ less
										pronounced; tegmina well produced, the portion distad of the stridulating field
										distinctly shorter than in testaceus (Fig. 194, b); cerci more slender and more acuminate, the apex more produced, the
										tooth more nearly median than in testaceus; subgenital plate
										with distal margin rectangulate-emarginate to acutely subfissate; styles slender
										and relatively elongate. Female with lateral carinæ of abdomen distinctly and
										median carina slightly more pronounced; ovipositor of approximately the same
										length as in testaceus but relatively much shorter, being
										considerably less than length of caudal femora. Subgenital plate more deeply
										divided, the lateral portions rotundato-rectangulate" (Fig. 194, b.) Length of body, ♂, 23.2--26.7, ♀, 20--28.2; of pronotum, ♂,
										9.5--11.4, ♀, 9.1--10.6; of tegmina, ♂, 5.4--7.6; of hind femora, ♂, 19.8--24.2,
										♀, 21--24.2; of ovipositor, 18--24 mm. Greatest width of pronotum, ♂ 5.8--7, ♀,
										5.7--6.5 mm.
								
								Southern Pines, N. Car., July 2 (Davis). Burmeister's types of
										pachymerus were from Germar's collection and labelled "South
									Carolina," without name of collector or region of the State. His brief description
									was as follows: 
										"Fusco-griseus, pronoti lateribus infuscatis, macula ad sinum marginis
											postica flava; vertice abdomineque toto unicoloribus. Male, elytris liberis
											fornicatis. Female, elytris nullis; vagina recta, abdomine longior. Long.
											corp. 9" (18.7 mm); femor. post. 8" (16.6 mm)."
									
								

								Of this description and their placement of the species R. & H. (loc. cit.) say: "We are able to place Burmeister's name
									on this species by a process of elimination, * * * the three words describing the
									male, 'elytris liberis fornicatis,' clearly referring to this species, testaceus or davisi; of these only the present
									form occurs near the coastal region of South Carolina from which the original
									material of pachymerus probably came. The characters given for
									the female are only sufficient to separate that sex from monticola. The length of the body and of caudal femora as given by
									Burmeister, while less than any found in the material before us, do not at all
									invalidate the claim of this species to his name. 
									The body length given could easily be accounted for by the abdomen being shrunken,
									while geographic or individual size variation could easily cause the discrepancy
									seen in the femoral length." Later on they admit that they have no exact record of
									the occurrence of pachymerus in South Carolina and give its
									known distribution as extending from Greensboro and Raleigh, N. Car., to the Ozark
									Mountain region of Arkansas. At Goldsboro, N. Car., the species was found "among
									fallen leaves of deciduous trees in a rather open forest composed chiefly of
									short-leaf pine."
								As already noted none of the evidence thus submitted by R. & H. is, in my
									opinion, conclusive that the species thus fixed by them is the one described by
									Burmeister, and the latter must continue to remain a matter of question unless his
									types can be found and compared with our different forms.
								
									Fig. I97. a, Male of Atlanticus davisi, X
										1.7; b, tip of male abdomen of A. gibbosus,
										showing form of cereal tooth. (After Caudell.)
								

								
									277. ATLANTICUS DAVISI
										Rehn & Hebard, 1916a, 58. Davis's Shield-bearer.

									Slightly smaller and more slender than testaceus. Male
										usually dark sooty brown flecked everywhere with grayish; apical third of hind
										femora paler, yellow line on lower border of pronotum indistinct or wanting.
										Female dull reddish- or yellowish-brown; posterior lobe of pronotum, dorsum of
										abdomen and ovipositor dark brown; face often with a blackish spot below each
										eye; sides of pronotum with obsolete fuscous markings. Fastigium slightly
										narrower than eye, feebly declivent. Disk of pronotum shorter than in testaceus, its lateral carinæ not as sharp as there, converging
										from base to apical third, then feebly diverging to apex, its greatest width
										two-thirds its length, hind margin subtruncate, its angles broadly rounded (Fig.
										194, c); lateral lobes two-thirds longer than deep, lower
										margin straight, obtusely rounded into front one, hind margin oblique, feebly
										sinuate. Tegmina of male exposed a distance equal to about one-half that of
										width of hind margin of pronotum, their tips well rounded. Hind femora with
										lower inner margin often armed with one to four very short spines. Male with
										cerci rather short, feebly curved, the basal portion stout, apical third much
										less so; the tooth at apical two-fifths short, slightly inbent (Fig. 195, i); subgenital plate with a triangular notch; styles short,
										stout. Female with notch of subgenital plate very narrowly V-shaped;  ovipositor slightly longer than hind femora,
										straight or nearly so, the apical fifth tapering on both margins to the median
										acute tip (Fig. 195, c.) Length of body, ♂, 16.8--23, ♀,
										17--26.5; of pronotum, ♂, 7.7--9.5, ♀, 8--10.6; of tegmina, ♂, 3.5--5.5; of hind
										femora, ♂, 15--18, ♀, 17.5--22; of ovipositor, 18.4--23 mm. Greatest width of
										pronotum, ♂, 5.2--6.2, ♀, 5--6.6 mm. (Fig. 197, a.)
								

								Southern half of Indiana, frequent, June 4--Sept. 28 (W. S. B.)
									; East Jewett, N. Y., and Great Falls, Va. (Davis). This is the
									species treated in my former work (1903, 394) as Atlanticus
										dorsalis (Burm.), a name which R. & H. have applied to a form occurring
									in Georgia and Florida. In Indiana A. davisi has been taken from
									Marion and Putnam counties southward, and occurs most frequently on the high
									rocky, thinly wooded slopes of the southern counties where it is more abundant
									than testaceus. From the latter species it may be readily known
									by the shorter, less rounded hind lobe of pronotum, less exposed male tegmina,
									longer and more slender apical portion of male cerci, and by the tip of ovipositor
									being formed by the tapering of both margins, not the upper one alone as in testaceus.
								The known range of davisi extends from Lake George, N. Y., west
									to southern Iowa and south to southern Virginia. In the eastern States it occurs
									in company with A. americanus among the dead leaves and
									scattered undergrowth of deciduous woods.

								
									278. ATLANTICUS MONTICOLA
										Davis, 1915a, 104. Mountain Shield-bearer.

									Size and form of A. davisi. Female "brown, the sides of
										pronotum streaked with black, particularly at the posterior portion, also an
										interrupted band of black on the outer sides of femora. Pronotum narrower in
										front than behind, somewhat pinched before the middle, the lateral carinæ well
										defined. Ovipositor stout, swollen at base with a gradual upward curve from
										about the middle and symmetrically narrowed to a point from both above and below
										(Figs. 194, 195, d.) Notch of subgenital plate U-shaped." (Davis). Tegmina of male covering about one-fourth of abdomen,
										their marginal field broader at base and narrowing toward apex instead of quite
										narrow and subequal throughout as in davisi. Length of body,
										♂, 17.6--19.8, ♀, 20--23.2; of pronotum, ♂, 8--9, ♀, 8.3--9.9; of tegmina, ♂,
										4.4--6; of hind femora, ♂, 14.8--18.8, ♀, 18.5--20.2; of ovipositor, 17.6--19.4
										mm. Greatest width of pronotum, ♂ and ♀, 5.7--6.4 mm.
								

								Lake Toxaway, N. Car., and Clayton, Ga. (Davis). The single
									paratype female at hand resembles that sex of davisi closely,
									but differs in the narrower disk of pronotum, with lateral carinæ less convergent,
									its posterior lobe more rugose above with angles much less rounded; the distinctly
									shorter lower half of lateral lobes with hind margins therefore much more oblique,
									the lower hind angle more narrowly rounded and humeral sinus more  distinct, the very evidently upcurved ovipositor and
									the broader, more U-shaped notch of subgenital plate.
								The known range of this mountain-loving species extends from near Durbin, W. Va.,
									to Clayton, Ga., at elevations of 2,000 to 6,000 feet. At Jones' Knob, N. Car., it
									was taken by R. & H. on July 19 and Oct. 7 in the undergrowth of the deciduous
									forest immediately below the spruce belt.

								
									279. ATLANTICUS AMERICANUS
										(Saussure), 1859, 201. American Shield-bearer.

									Size medium or above for the genus; form robust. Brownish-yellow to dark
										reddish-brown, lateral lobes of pronotum often in part darker; hind femora and
										sides of abdomen occasionally with small fuscous blotches. Fastigium and
										pronotum much as in testaceus, the latter with disk often
										subcarinate behind the middle, narrowest at apical third. Tegmina of male
										projecting beyond pronotum a distance about half that of width of front margin
										of pronotum. Hind femora as long as or slightly longer than body. Male cercus
										with apical portion feebly tapering; tooth small, sharp, situated at apical
										two-fifths (Fig. 195, j.) Ovipositor as in key and Fig. 195,
											e, as long as or slightly longer than hind femora. Length of
										body, ♂, 20--30, ♀, 22--28; of pronotum, ♂, 9.4--11, ♀, 10--11.3; of tegmina, ♂,
										4.8--6.2; of hind femora, ♂, 22--28, ♀, 24.5--29.4; of ovipositor, 24--28.3 mm.
										Greatest width of pronotum, ♂, 5.4--6.9, ♀, 6.2--6.7 mm.
								

								North Madison, Conn., Aug. 25, one pair from the crests of high rocky ledges
									along the Hammonasset River (W. S. B.). Yaphank, Long Island and
									Lakehurst, N. Jer., Aug. 27, Sept. 6 (Davis). A common form of
									the northeastern states and, according to R. & H., the one to which
										Scudder (1862) and most subsequent authors applied the name dorsalis Burm. Its known range extends from central New England
									west to the Appalachian Mountains and southwest to northern Florida, central
									Alabama and Natchez, Miss. Saussure's types were from Tennessee. The Connecticut
									record above given is the first definite one for that State. The only known
									Florida station is River Junction where on August 31 R. & H. took five males
									and four females from "among tree shoots in heavy forest of beech, hickory, oak
									and magnolia on limestone hills." They state (1916a, 79) that americanus is a "frequenter of the areas of dead leaves and low
									undergrowth in pine and deciduous forests, occasionally being more numerous along
									the edges of the timber than in the depths of the woods. Its presence will often
									be signalized by the patter on the leaves as it jumps away from the disturbing
									footsteps. The insects are so thoroughly protected by their coloration that it is
									often difficult to see them, even when moving, much less when  stationary. Their activities are chiefly nocturnal and work with a
									flash lamp will sometimes reveal them in many situations."
								Davis (1911a) mentions the finding of eight specimens of this large
									Orthopteron in a single burrow of the wasp, Chlorion ichneumonea
									L., the "cricket" being so clumsy in motion that it easily falls a prey to the
									wasp. He also states (1915a) that this and other species of Atlanticus "are often attracted to the trees sugared for moths and they
									may be likewise collected in traps consisting of jars or old tin cans sunk in the
									ground and baited with molasses. More females than males seem to be attracted by
									the above methods."

								
									280. ATLANTICUS GIBBOSUS
										Scudder, 1894a, 180. Robust Shield-bearer.

									Large for the genus; form robust. Pale brownish-yellow to cinnamon-brown,
										more or less sprinkled with fine fuscous markings; upper half of lateral lobes
										usually blackish-fuscous. Fastigium wider than basal joint of antennæ, its tip
										broad, rounded. Pronotum with disk large, strongly produced backward, its hind
										margin broadly and evenly rounded; lateral lobes twice as long as deep, lower
										margin short, oblique, its front angle obtuse, hind angle very broadly rounded,
										hind margin very long, humeral sinus scarcely evident. Tegmina usually concealed
										in both sexes, rarely feebly protruding in male. Hind femora very stout, about
										two and a half times the length of pronotum, their inner lower margin armed with
										two to nine short spines. Male with notch of subgenital plate deep, narrow;
										styles short, obtuse; cerci as in key and Fig. 197, b. Female
										with subgenital notch narrowly U-shaped, the lobes each side broadly rounded
										(Fig. 194, f.) Ovipositor straight, twice or slightly less
										than twice as long as pronotum, its apical fifth tapering above, and tip
										therefore ventral (Fig. 195, g.) Length of body, ♂, 26--33, ♀,
										27--34.5; of pronotum, ♂, 11.6--14, ♀, 12.5--14.7; of hind femora, ♂,
										28.5--34.8, ♀, 31.7--37; of ovipositor, 25--29 mm. Greatest width of pronotum,
										♂, 6.7--7.9, ♀, 7.1--8.2 mm.
								

								Dunedin, Fla., July 15-Oct. 29 (W. S. B.) ; Lake City, Fla.,
									May 28 (Gainesville Coll.). Recorded also from numerous places
									in the northern part of Florida, Ft. Reed being the most southern station on the
									east coast and Dunedin on the west one, at which it has been taken. About Dunedin
									the young are quite common in dry open pine and scrub-oak woods during March and
									April and probably reach maturity in June. At Pablo Beach R. & H. found it in
									palmetto scrub and salt marsh. They state (1907) that the adults "possess greater
									strength in the jaws than any other North American orthopterous insect known to
									us. A single bite can easily pierce the cuticle and cause the blood to flow. In
									consequence the field collector quickly acquires a wholesome respect for their
									defensive abilities. Individuals showed surprising 
									activity in escaping when alarmed by seeking hiding places under the scrub
									palmettoes, to which they hurried with seeming ungainliness but nevertheless
									considerable speed."
								Part of Scudder's types were from North Carolina and the known range of gibbosus extends from that State to Dunedin, Fla., and inland to
									Warm Springs, Ga. It occurs from sea level to about 2,000 feet in elevation and is
									chiefly found among the wire-grass and dead leaves of oak and pine woods.
								This is the largest of our species of Atlanticus and the males
									may be readily known by the large size taken in connection with their concealed
									tegmina and long tooth of cerci, while the females are distinguished mainly by the
									size, obtuse lateral carinæ and long, strongly rounded posterior lobe of
									pronotum.

								
									281. ATLANTICUS DORSALIS
										(Burmeister), 1838, 713.

									"Coriicolor, lateribus omnino fuscis, pronoto macula in sinu flava; vertice
										pedibusque griseo-fuscis, tibiis extus dilutioribus. Male elytris sub pronoto
										absconditis. Long. corp. 11"' (22.9 mm.); femor post 1". (25.4 mm.)" (Burmeister.) "Male with tegmina projecting very slightly caudad
										of the caudal margin of pronotal disk; cerci short, robust, the distal portion
										moderately acute (Fig. 195, k); subgenital plate slightly
										acute-angulate emarginate. Female with subgenital plate deeply and broadly
										emarginate, tips of lateral sections well rounded (Fig. 194, g); ovipositor straight, but little more than two-thirds the length of
										caudal femur. Length of body, ♂, 25.4, ♀, 25.7; of pronotum, ♂, 10.7, ♀, 12.2;
										of hind femora, ♂, 24.3, ♀, 29.8; of ovipositor, 20.6 mm." (R.
											& H.)
								

								The original description of Burmeister was of a single male from South Carolina
									in the Germar collection. R. & H. (1916a, 87) assigned the name
									to one adult pair and some nymphs taken at Billy's Island and Thomasville, Ga.,
									stating that they have arrived at their conclusion "by a process of elimination,"
									since they feel certain that it must occur in eastern South Carolina and that it
									is the only species found anywhere near that agrees with the particular character
									given by Burmeister of having the tegmina of male hidden under the pronotum,
									etc.
								Known definitely only by an adult male from Billy's Island and a female from
									Thomasville, Ga., and some nymphs from the latter place and Jacksonville, Fla. At
									Thomasville they were found among the wire-grass in damp areas in the pine
									woods.
								The present status of the dorsalis of Burmeister is, in my
									opinion, the same as that of his pachymerus, i. e., an open
									question. From a truly scientific basis the evidence cited by R. & H. in both
									cases has little value, as they have seen specimens of neither from South
									Carolina. However, for the time being, the  names of
									Burmeister may as well be assigned to the species to which they are attached by R.
									& H. as to any other and I have so retained them.

								
									282. ATLANTICUS GLABER
										Rehn & Hebard, 1912, 269. Smooth Shield-bearer.

									Size medium, form rather slender. Pale brown; lateral lobes of pronotum
										black, their lower margin ivory-white and apical half suffused with olive-gray;
										sides of abdomen with vague blackish triangular blotches. Fastigium slightly
										wider than basal joint of antennæ. Disk of pronotum elongate, narrow, convex,
										subequal in width throughout, its hind margin broadly rounded (Figs. 194, h, 198.) Tegmina of male scarcely, or not at all, exceeding the
										hind margin of pronotum. Hind femora slender, nearly as long as body, armed with
										four to nine spines on inner lower margin. Male with apex of subgenital plate
										acutely emarginate; cerci short, stout, depressed toward apex, the latter rather
										blunt; the tooth at apical two-fifths short, sharp, slightly recurved. Female
										with notch of subgenital plate rather broadly U-shaped, the lateral angles
										subacute (Fig. 194, i); ovipositor straight, nearly one-third
										shorter than hind femora, the apex ventral (Fig. 195, h).
										Length of body, ♂, 24--31, ♀, 24.5--32; of pronotum, ♂, 10.6--12, ♀, 11.2--11.8;
										of hind femora, ♂, 25.8--27, ♀, 28--30.2; of ovipositor, 17.5--20.4 mm. Greatest
										width of pronotum, ♂, 4.1--4.7, ♀, 4.1--4.9 mm. (Fig. 198.)
								
								
									Fig. 198. Male type. X 1.5. (After R. & H.)
								

								Dunedin and Sarasota, Fla., Nov. 2--March 1, (W. S. B.). The
									types of R. & H. were from Miami and the species seems to replace A. gibbosus in central and southern Florida. It has so far been recorded
									only from Ft. Reed, Tampa, Pineland, Marco, Miami and Homestead, Fla., the adults
									having been taken from March 6 to May 20, mostly among the undergrowth of pine
									woods, sometimes among the grasses of adjoining marshes. At Marco Davis took them
									"by treading closely and more or less shoving the feet through the tangled grasses
									of a small moist meadow on the interior of Key Marco." North of Florida it is
									known only from Billy's Island, Ga., where Hebard found it in July, 1917.

								
									283. ATLANTICUS CALCARATUS
										Rehn & Hebard, 1916a, 93. Long-spurred Shield-bearer.

									Closely related to A. glaber. Differs according to R.
										& H. by "the shorter pronotum, truncate caudal margin of disk of same,
										deeper and  shorter lateral lobes which have an
										appreciable indentation at the sinus, more acute angles of the disto-dorsal
										abdominal segment; less exserted and shorter cerci and subfissate subgenital
										plate of male, the more robust limbs and the greatly elongate medio-internal
										distal spur of the caudal tibiæ." In addition A. calcaratus
										has the black stripe on sides of pronotum wider, more shining and extending back
										along sides of abdomen, the yellow one below it wider, more prominent; outer
										face of hind femora darker. Tegmina extending 2--3 mm. beyond pronotum, their
										dorsal field black. Prosternal spines often represented by small conical teeth.
										Ovipositor feebly upcurved beyond the middle, its apex median. Length of body,
										♂, 22.5--24.4, ♀, 28; of pronotum, ♂ and ♀, 10--11; of tegmina, ♂, 3.6--5.2; of
										hind femora, ♂, 23.9--24.8, ♀, 26.5; of ovipositor, 17 mm. Greatest width of
										pronotum, 3.8--4 mm.
								

								Known only from a series in the Philadelphia collections taken at Billy's Island,
									Ga., and a single male in the Morse collection from Hastings, Fla.
							

							
								II. IDIONOTUS
									Scudder, 1894a, 179. (Gr., "peculiar" + "back.")

								Medium sized species having the vertex more than one-half as broad as interocular
									space; pronotum not greatly produced backward, its disk flat and with a submedian
									U-shaped transverse sulcus; lateral carinæ sharp, strongly converging near apical
									third of pronotum to narrow its disk to nearly one-half the caudal width; median
									carina present behind the transverse sulcus; front tibiæ armed above on outer
									margin with three spines; hind femora more than twice the length of pronotum,
									unarmed beneath; tegmina overlapping, as long as or longer than pronotum, male,
									one-half its length, female, their tips broadly rounded. Other characters as given
									in key.

								
									284. IDIONOTUS SPHAGNORUM
										(F. Walker), 1869, 258.

									Pale reddish-brown; lateral lobes of pronotum blackish-fuscous, the front
										and lower margins and basal third pale yellow; sides of abdomen with a row of
										black spots; outer face of hind femora with fuscous strike; hind tarsi and sides
										of vertex black in female. Pronotum narrow, its hind margin broadly rounded,
										male, subtruncate, female. Tegmina dimorphic in male, in the macropterous form
										surpassing tips of hind femora. Male with cerci cone-shaped, armed within near
										base with a sharp black curved spine, this invisible from without; supra-anal
										plate broad, deeply and narrowly notched, the lobes each side squarely truncate;
										subgenital plate scoop-shaped, with a deep, broad, triangular apical notch;
										styles subcylindrical, movable, twice as long as broad. Ovipositor as long as
										hind femora, strongly upcurved. Other characters as given above. Length of body,
										♂, 17--20, ♀, 24.5; of pronotum, ♂ and ♀, 5.2--5.5; of tegmina, ♂, 6, ♀, 2.5; of
										hind femora, ♂, 12, ♀, 14.5; of ovipositor, 11--14 mm. Width of pronotum, ♀,
										front margin, 2.7; hind margin, 3.7 mm. (Fig. 199.)
								



								


								This interesting Decticid has been taken on several occasions by E. M. Walker at
									Ft. William, Ont., where it was first found in rather long grass. He records it
									also (1909, 210) from Aweme, Man., and Millarville and Calgary, Alta. Caudell
									informs me that his Idionotus brevipes (1907, 396) from "Arctic
									America" is the male, and his Platycleis fletcheri (1907, 403)
									the female, of I sphagnorum. The known range of the species
									extends from northwestern Ontario to western Alberta and northward to Arctic
									America, F. Walker's types being from St. Martin's Falls, Hudson's Bay.
								
									Fig. 199. Idionotus sphagnorum (F. Walker.) a, Male, X 2. (After E. M. Walker.) b, Female, X 1.3.
										(After Caudell.)
								
								Of the habits of I. sphagnorum, as noted at Ft. William,
										E. M. Walker (1911) says: 
										"In addition to open grassy places it occurs also in paths and old lumber
											roads in the depths of spruce swamps. The tree growth in these swamps consists
											mainly of black spruce, interspersed with tamarack, white cedar and balsam
											fir. With the exception of a single female, which I found squatting close to
											the ground on a path in the swamp, all the specimens taken were males, and
											were all traced by their stridulation. When discovered, they were sometimes
											found perching in a conspicuous position upon the upper side of a leaf or twig
											of some shrub, a few feet from the ground, but several times the sound was
											traced to the trunk of a tree, and the musician was in some cases too high up
											to be detected.
										"The stridulation of this grasshopper is a soft trill of little volume,
											audible at a distance of but a few yards. It is sometimes continuous for some
											seconds, but is generally interrupted rythmically, the divisions being
											produced at a rate varying according to the amount of sunshine. In bright
											sunshine I counted forty in fifteen seconds, the rate being thus two and
											two-thirds divisions per second, but on an afternoon when the sun was almost
											wholly overcast the rate was reduced to forty-one or forty-two in thirty
											seconds, or about half the rate in sunshine. When close to the  stridulating insect I could detect that there
											were no absolute pauses between the trills, a very low trilling sound filling
											in all the intervals. The rhythm is not always quite regular. Sometimes after
											a succession of trills of apparently equal length one may be shortened or
											lengthened, and then the regular trilling resumed."
									
								
							
						

						
							Subfamily VI. GRYLLACRINÆ.

							Small or medium sized wingless Tettigoniids, in our species having the head short,
								globose, face vertical; vertex broad, two-thirds as wide as interocular space,
								bluntly rounded, strongly declivent; pronotum covering only prosternum, its lateral
								carinæ absent; lateral lobes as deep as long, their front and hind margins broadly
								rounded into the lower one; meso- and metanotum similar to dorsal abdominal
								segments, their hind margins truncate; fore and middle femora feebly curved, unarmed
								beneath; fore and middle tibiæ armed with four long distant spines on each of their
								lower carinæ; hind tibiæ armed with four or five spines on each carina. Male with
								supra-anal plate thickened, decurved, emarginate; cerci long, slender, awl-shaped;
								subgenital plate with a wide deep transverse notch, the lateral projections each
								bearing at tip a short obtuse style. Ovipositor but slightly longer than hind
								femora, strongly curved upward, its valves compressed, acute.
							According to Kirby the subfamily is represented throughout the world by 15 genera
								and about 240 nominal species, 172 of which belong to the single genus Gryllacris. But one genus occurs in the United States.

							
								I. CAMPTONOTUS
									Uhler, 1864, 548. (Gr., "curved" + "back.")

								Form similar to Ceuthophilus Scudd. Head large, oval, much
									broader than pronotum, not deeply sunken into it; eyes elongate-ovate, vertical,
									situated a little behind the basal joint of antennæ, and exceeding it slightly in
									length; maxillary palpi long, the last joint as long as preceding one, feebly
									inflated at tip; antennæ at least five times the length of body; dorsal abdominal
									segments subequal in length, the last two slightly shorter; legs very short,
									moderately stout; hind femora armed beneath with two to six very short spines on
									each carina; tarsi stout, four-jointed, with split cushions beneath, the first
									joint equal in length to the two following ones conjoined. Other characters as
									given under subfamily heading. A single species is known from the eastern United
									States.


								

								
									285. CAMPTONOTUS CAROLINENSIS
										(Gerstaecker), 1860, 276. Carolina Leaf-roller.

									Size medium; form rather slender, subcylindrical. Reddish-brown above,
										yellowish-white beneath; face and all the tibiæ and tarsi yellowish; femora,
										especially the middle and hind pair, mottled with dark brown; a transverse bar
										of the same color on the three posterior dorsal segments of abdomen. Structural
										characters as given above. Length of body, ♂, 13--14, ♀, 12--15; of pronotum, ♂,
										3, ♀, 4; of hind femora, ♂ and ♀, 7.5--8; of ovipositor, 8--9 mm. (Fig.
										200.)
								
								
									Fig. 200. Female. X 2. (Original.)
								

								Marion, Parke, Vigo, Lawrence and Crawford counties, Ind.; adults Sept. 9--Oct.
									11; nymphs, July 15--22. Probably occurs sparingly on oak shrubs and trees
									throughout southern Indiana. Only four adults and the same number of nymphs have
									been seen by me. The nymphs were beaten from oak shrubs. While eating lunch
									beneath a sycamore tree in Vigo County, Sept. 25, 1917, a male fell from the tree
									onto my neck; the others were found on the ground beneath oak trees.
								Uhler in 1864 redescribed the species as Camptonotus scudderi,
									his types being from near Baltimore, where, he says, it appears in the larval
									state as early as the first of August and reaches maturity the latter part of
									September. It is there found upon oak trees, where it is said to spend the daytime
									curled up in the leaves.
								Caudell (1904e) and McAtee (1908) have each given a
									most interesting account of the leaf rolling habits of this Camptonotus. The former first found the nymphs in rolled papaw leaves near
									Washington in July. Later he placed one in a glass tube with some willow leaves
									covered with plant lice. On the next day he found that it had constructed for
									itself a pocket in one of the leaves. This was made: 
										"By cutting the leaf through on each side to the midrib and at right angles
											to it and again one-third of an inch farther along the midrib, this time the
											incision being formed at an angle with it. The flaps thus formed on either
											side were then folded together and their edges fastened together with
											silk-like strands, and I have subsequently seen cases with one end completely
											closed by a solid mat of this silk. The manner of constructing the pockets or
											rolls is not uniform. In some cases the incisions are made near the apex of
											the leaf and then only the two basal cuts are made, the tip of the  leaf being folded back, thus making the terminal
											cuts unnecessary. Sometimes the pocket is formed altogether on one side of the
											midrib.
										"When supplied with fresh leaves the insect at once commenced making a new
											house, cutting with its mandibles incisions from the edge of the leaf; then
											grasping the thus movable edges each with the three legs on each side and
											forcing them together, it spun what was apparently silk thread from the mouth,
											fastening the edges together. The whole performance did not take five minutes
											after it was begun. The insect accurately measured the proper places for the
											cuts by placing itself on the leaf and realizing how much was needed. This
											being determined, the work went on rapidly. Within these pockets the nymphs
											live, coming out mostly at night to feed on plant lice, which seem to form
											their entire food supply during their early life."
									
								
								
									Fig. 201. Leaflet of bladder-nut, Staphylea trifolia L.,
										rolled by Camptonotus carolinensis. (After
											McAtee.)
								

								McAtee found C. carolinensis in numbers in August on Plummer's
									Island, Md., inhabiting the fruit pods of the bladder-nut, Staphylea
										trifoliata L. Of its habits he says: 
										"Carefully examining the first pod in which a Camptonotus
											was found, it was seen that as usual, a large irregular opening had been made
											in one of the cells, but it had been closed by a loosely constructed door,
											composed of bits of the pod and a network of fine spun silk-like threads. The
											locustid was snugly curled within, the long antennæ, to my surprise, being
											completely withdrawn. It scuttled about when the pod was handled, but did not
											attempt to bolt out. Several other pods were found to be similarly
											inhabited.
										"Some of the insects and twigs of Staphylea were brought
											home and in a large jar two females and one male were confined with a twig
											bearing several entirely uninjured pods and many leaves. They were watched for
											some time by a light but did nothing with the plant. They sometimes moved
											nervously about, sometimes sat motionless, but they also spent much time
											cleaning all accessible parts of the body (even including the ovipositor in
											the case of the females), with the mouth. During this process  they showed wonderful control of the long
											antennæ, which after being pulled down one at a time by the fore legs, by
											great muscular power at the base were slowly drawn between the mandibles for
											their whole length. The dexterity with which they manipulate these seemingly
											unwieldy appendages (which are about five times the length of the body),
											leaves the observer in no doubt as to how they stow them away in the cramped
											confines of their improvised retreats. Leaving the locustids in darkness for a
											while, no change was noticed upon returning except that the male had ensconced
											himself in his old cell in a pod that had been left lying on the floor of the
											receptacle. From it he was reluctantly dislodged. They were then left for the
											night. In the morning it was found that both females had made cells for
											themselves, not however in the pods, but in leaves. Although the three
											specimens were afterwards confined for two days with uninjured pods and no
											leaves, not a pod was disturbed. Hence it is not proven that the locustids
											enter them through openings of their own making. Nevertheless, it is very
											probable that they do so; certainly they have mandibles equal to the
											task."
									
								

								
									Fig. 202. Pod of bladder-nut with walls of cell cut away, showing a Camptonotus within. At upper left hand part there is a woven
										sheet closing the entrance to cell. (After McAtee.)
								

								The known range of C. carolinensis is southern, extending from
									New Jersey west to southern Indiana and southwest to Clarksville, Tenn.,
									Thompson's Mills, Ga., Agricultural College, Miss. and St. Augustine, Fla., a
									single male from the last named place being the only record for Florida. For so
									wide a known range the records are very few and usually based upon single
									specimens, though about Washington, D. C., it appears to be common. Brunner
										(1888, 381) records it also from Mexico, but probably confused it with
									the species since described as C. affinis Rehn.
							
						



						


						
							Subfamily VII. RHAPHIDOPHORINÆ. THE CAVE AND CAMEL CRICKETS.

							Wingless Tettigoniids of medium or large size having the body robust,
								subcylindrical, more or less curved; antennæ approximate at base, filiform, of
								excessive length; head small, subrotund, received within and partly covered by the
								apical portion of pronotum; vertex short, narrow, usually deflexed, sometimes
								tuberculate; pronotum short, without lateral carinæ, of the same general form as the
								meso-and metanotum; lateral lobes much longer than deep, their front and hind
								margins broadly rounded into the lower one; fore and middle femora slender, usually
								unarmed beneath; hind femora very robust, armed or not, the angle of their insertion
								on the inner and not on the outer side beneath; hind tibiæ often very long, armed
								above on each carina with numerous short teeth, and usually with four or more long
								movable dorsal spines, their tips also with three pairs of apical spurs (Fig. 203) ;
								tarsi long, slender, the joints compressed without pulvilli beneath. Supranal plate
								of male usually in great part concealed beneath the last dorsal segment. Cerci long,
								slender, tapering, unarmed. Ovipositor stout at base, strongly tapering toward apex,
								which is usually rather blunt, the inner valves armed beneath.

							
								Fig. 203. Hind tibiæ and tarsus of valves armed beneath. Rhaphidophorinæ, showing
									the dorsal spines, 1--5, apical spurs, 6--8 and ventral spines, 9--10, of tibia;
									also the compressed joints of tarsus. (After Caudell.)
							

							The subfamily is represented in all parts of the earth, but its species are more
								numerous in the United States than in any other country. Its members are mainly
								nocturnal or crepuscular in habits, living in caves, quarries, walls of old wells,
								cellars, crevices of stone walls, beneath or in decaying logs and stumps, hollow
								trees and burrows of mammals or reptiles. Without wings, stridulating organs or
								ears, they comprise a group of queer forms among our Orthoptera. Living in total or
								semi-darkness during the day, they move silently and stealthily about at night,
								guided principally by their long antennæ. Their food habits and life histories are
								as yet practically unknown and offer an interesting and virgin field of research to
								aspiring students,  especially those living in the
								vicinity of caves where one or more species of the group can usually be found in
								numbers. The principal information concerning the North American forms of the
								subfamily will be found in the following works: Scudder, 1861, 1862,
									1894; Brunner, 1888; Packard, 1873, 1888;
									Blatchley, 1893, 1897, 1903; Caudell, 1916; R.
									& H., 1916.
							Of the 12 genera recognized by Caudell (1916) as inhabiting North
								America but four are known to be represented in the Eastern States, though a single
								species of another may occur.

							
								KEY TO EASTERN GENERA OF' RHAPHIDOPIIORINÆ.

								a. Fore femora more than twice as long as pronotum; last joint of palpi
									scarcely longer than third and cleft beneath only apically; lateral lobes of pro-,
									meso- and metanotum very shallow, not covering the corresponding epimera (Fig.
									204.) I. HADENŒCUS.
								aa. Fore femora less than twice as long as pronotum; last joint of palpi
									(except in Phrixocnemis) distinctly longer than third and
									usually cleft beneath for almost its entire length; lateral lobes of pro-, meso-
									and metanotum deeper, covering in great part the epimera (Fig. 206.)
								b. Hind tibiæ armed above on both margins with very numerous short,
									close-set teeth of subequal length and one longer pair near apical fourth; vertex
									with a pair of conical tubercles between the antennæ; basal joint of hind tarsi
									prolonged above second joint into a short, sharp spine; surface pubescent (Fig.
									205.) II. DIESTRAMMENA.
								bb. Hind tibiæ armed above with short teeth and several pairs of long
									movable spines; vertex not or feebly tuberculate; basal joint of hind tarsi not
									prolonged above; surface glabrous.
								c. Second hind tarsal segment no longer than deep, subequal in length to
									third; hind tibiæ shorter or at most but little longer than hind femora.
								d. Fore tibiæ armed above about the middle of the inner margin with a
									distinct spine; third joint of palpi shorter than fifth. III.
											UDEOPSYLLA.
								dd. Fore tibiæ not armed above; third palpal joint as long as fifth; hind
									tibiæ with five or fewer short teeth between the longer dorsal spurs. PHRIXOCNEMIS.73
								cc. Second hind tarsal segment distinctly longer than deep, third not more
									than half as long as second; front tibiæ not armed except toward apex; hind tibiæ
									usually distinctly longer than hind femora and with numerous serrations between
									the longer dorsal spurs. IV. CEUTHOPHILUS.
							
							73The genus Phrixocnemis
								Scudder (1894, 102) is here included since it may be represented by a
								single species east of the Mississippi, as the female type of P.
									inhabilis
								Rehn (I904e) (=P. truculentus Scudder?) was taken at
								St. Louis, Mo.



							

							
								I. HADENOECUS
									Scudder, 1862, 439. (Gr., "the nether world" + "to dwell
									in.") THE T>RUE CAVE
										CRICKETS.

								Slender bodied cave crickets having the antennæ very long and slender (80--100
									mm) ; face small, perpendicular; eyes small, narrowly triangular; maxillary palpi
									very long and slender, second joint twice as long as first, third twice as long as
									second, and one-fourth longer than fourth; fifth slightly longer than third, its
									apical portion thickened, slightly curved and feebly cleft beneath at tip; vertex
									armed above with a small bilobed tubercle; pronotum short, front margin rounded,
									hind one truncate; lateral lobes of pronotum longer than deep, extending but
									slightly below those of meso- and metanotum; fore and middle legs very long and
									slender, their femora and tibiæ subequal, the former unarmed, tibiæ with 5-7
									slender spines on each lower carina; hind femora unarmed, longer than body, their
									basal half much swollen; hind tibiæ one-third longer than femora, armed above on
									each carina with numerous very fine, close-set inclined teeth, and with 8 or 9
									pairs of much longer alternating distant movable spines, also armed beneath toward
									apex with several spines; basal segment of hind tarsi longer than the others
									combined, second segment three times as long as third. Subgenital plate of male
									emarginate; styles wanting. Ovipositor swollen at base, nearly straight, its
									apical portion feebly upcurved.
								Two species of these long-legged cave insects are known, both described by
									Scudder and separated by him (1894, 22) as follows: 
										KEY TO SPECIES OF HADENŒCUS.
										a. Body pale testaceous; ovipositor nearly or quite as long as body;
											subgenital plate of male broadly emarginate at apex. 286. SUBTERRANEUS.
										aa. Body dark brown; ovipositor only half as long as body; subgenital
											plate of male narrowly emarginate at apex. 287. PUTEANUS.
									
								

								
									286. HADENŒCUS SUBTERRANEUS
										(Scudder), 1861, 8. Common Cave Cricket.

									Form subcylindrical, arched, rather robust, but less so than most species of
											Ceuthophilus. Pale yellowish-brown; eyes black; dorsal
										segments of abdomen often with more or less transverse fuscous blotches. Male
										cerci as long as last four dorsal segments of abdomen, strongly tapering to an
										acute point; apex of subgenital plate with a deep median U-shaped notch, the
										projections each side narrow, cylindrical, obtuse. Apical fifth of ovipositor
										feebly upcurved, its lower margin tapering to a very sharp apex, the inner
										valves serrulate beneath. Other structural characters as given above. Length of
										body, ♂ and ♀, 16--20; of pronotum, 4--4.5; of fore  femora, 14--16; of hind femora, 19--24; of hind tibiæ, 26--32; of ovipositor,
										12--15 mm. (Fig. 204.)
								

								
									Fig. 204. Male. Natural size. (After Brunner.)
								

								Mammoth Cave, Ky., (Call). This is a true cave inhabiting
									species, occurring in numbers in many of the caves, both large and small in
									Kentucky and adjoining southern states but not as yet taken in any of those of
									southern Indiana. Scudder's types were from Mammoth Cave, where it appears to be
									the only cave cricket found, and of them he wrote (1861, 9): "They were found
									throughout the cave to the remotest parts (seven miles or there-abouts), though
									not near the entrance, especially in damp, moist situations, where they abound.
									They were usually jumping about with the greatest alacrity upon the walls, where
									only they are found, and even when disturbed, clinging to the ceiling, upon which
									they walked easily; they would leap away from approaching footsteps, but stop at a
									cessation of the noise, turning about and swaying their long antennæ in a most
									ludicrous manner, in the direction whence the disturbance had proceeded. The least
									noise would increase their tremulousness while they were unconcerned at distant
									motions unaccompanied by sound, even though producing a sensible current of air;
									neither did the light of the lamp appear to disturb them. Their eyes are perfectly
									formed throughout, and they could apparently see with ease, for they jump away
									from the slowly approaching hand, so as to necessitate rapidity of motion in
									seizing them. Late in October, females were obtained enormously distended with
									eggs."
								Garman (1894, 5) says that H. subterraneus is the
									species of cave Orthoptera "most completely adapted to life in the caves. It is a
									large brown creature so fragile that it is almost impossible to get perfect
									specimens. Those taken alive from the caves in summer invariably soon died,
									probably because of the sudden change of temperature. It is usually most abundant
									a short distance within the entrance but is encountered in the remotest depths of
									the largest caverns."
								Packard (1888, 69) recorded H. subterraneus from
									24 small caves in the vicinity of Mammoth and also from Nickajack Cave,  Tenn. Many of these were found close to the entrances
									and he remarks that "This species does not vary perceptibly either in its eyes or
									appendages, whether occurring in large or small caves or living in total darkness
									or in partial daylight."
								Of specimens taken in White's Cave, Ky., he (1889, 199) wrote: 
										"The 'taste cups' are highly developed in this 'cave cricket,' being rounded
											papillæ with the nucleus at the top or end. There are more than 100 in all
											where in Ceuthophilus there are only nine or ten. These
											gustatory cups, being so much longer, better developed and much more numerous
											in the cave Hadenœcus than in Ceuthophilus, which lives under stones, etc. out of doors, it would seem
											as if the sense of taste were much more acute in the cave dweller than in the
											out-of-doors form, though it does live for the most part in twilight."
									
								Garman (1891) mentions a pair of peculiar gland-like white fleshy
									appendages protruding from slits between the ninth and tenth dorsal abdominal
									segments in the male of H. subterraneus and suggests that they
									may be scent glands, "the sense of smell being best calculated to bring the sexes
									together in the darkness of the caves."
								According to Caudell (1916, 659) the Rhaphidophora
										cavernarum Saussure, of which H. subterraneus was long
									supposed to be a synonym, was not published until 1862, so that Scudder's name has
									priority and R. cavernarum is a synonym.

								
									287. HADENŒCUS PUTEANUS
										Scudder, 1877, 37.

									"Dark fuliginous brown, slightly tinged with castaneous. Head and under
										surface of body dull luteous; antennæ luteo-fuscous, darkest on basal half;
										palpi slightly infuscated beyond the base. Upper surface of thorax and abdomen
										sparsely covered with excessively short hairs, giving it a punctulate
										appearance. All the femora and tibiæ brownish-fuscous, the base of femora and
										extreme tips of tibiæ a little paler; tarsi, as well as the longer tibial
										spines, pale luteous. Cerci brownish-luteous; ovipositor testaceo-luteous,
										slender, not very long, in the apical half gently tapering, the tip upcurved,
										finely pointed. Length of body, ♂, 11, ♀, 17; of antennæ, ♂, 60, ♀, 80; of
										maxillary palpi, ♂, 7, ♀, 9.5; of hind tibiæ, ♂, 18, ♀, 20.5; of cerci, ♂, 4.6,
										♀, 5; of ovipositor, 7.7 mm." (Scudder.)
								
								The types were from North Carolina where they were found under boards covering an
									old well. It is known also from Corning, Rockville and Allentown, Pa., Thompson's
									Mills, Billy's Island and Rabun Co. Ga., and Monticello, Miss. The supra-anal
									plate of male is broadly triangular, and has on each side above an oblique
									lozenge-shaped raised disk.
							

							
								II. DIESTRAMMENA
									Brunner, 1888, 298. (Gr., "distorted.") THE
										GREENHOUSE CAMEL CRICKETS.

								Head oblong, as broad as front of pronotum; vertex with a pair of conical
									tubercles between the antennæ, these about twice  as
									long as the basal width; antennæ about three times longer than body, second
									segment one-half the size of first; palpi long, slender, fifth segment nearly
									twice as long as either third or fourth, which are subequal; lateral lobes of
									pronotum longer than deep, their lower margin broadly rounded, meso- and metanotum
									together barely as long as but fully as deep as pronotum; fore femora armed on
									outer side of apex with a long movable spine; fore and middle tibiæ with one or
									two movable spines beneath; hind femora armed on lower inner margin with five or
									six short stout spines; hind tibiæ and tarsi as in key. Male with subgenital plate
									short, broad, apically truncate; styles absent; cerci long, slender, cylindrical,
									tapering to a point. Female with apex of subgenital plate triangularly notched;
									ovipositor about twice as long as pronotum, its apical half gently upcurved with
									inner valves finely crenate beneath and tips acuminate. Two introduced Asiatic
									species have been taken in the greenhouses of this country, but one of which has
									become established.

								
									288. DIESTRAMMENA JAPANICA nom. nov. Japanese Camel
										Cricket.

									Pale brownish-yellow mottled with chestnut-brown; surface pubescent with
										very fine appressed yellowish hairs; legs long and slender, the femora all
										blotched with fuscous. Front femora nearly twice as long as pronotum. Hind tibiæ
										longer than the femora. Ovipositor scarcely one-half the length of hind femora.
										Length of body, male and female, 14--16; of pronotum, 7; of front femora,
										13--14; of hind femora, 23; of hind tibiæ, ♂, 28, ♀, 26; of ovipositor, 11.5 mm.
										(Fig. 205.)
								

								
									Fig. 205. Male. Natural size. (After Lugger.)
								

								This is the species hitherto known in literature as Diestrammena
										marmorata
									DeHaan (1843, 217). It was described by him as Locusta
										marmorata and is therefore a primary homonym of Locusta
										(Scirtetica) marmorata
									Harris (1841, 145). A new specific name is therefore necessary for
									DeHaan's insect.
								While this species is not known to have been taken in Indiana, it doubtless
									occurs in some of the greenhouses of the State, as Hart (Ms.) stated that it was
									common in those of Illinois and a specimen is at hand from Ann Arbor, Mich. It is
									a Japanese  species and is known to occur from New
									England west to Minnesota and Colorado. Morse (1919a, 28) says that
									it has been introduced "into greenhouses and cellars in several parts of New
									England. It multiplies rapidly and quickly becomes abundant, the adults and young
									occurring throughout the year." His specimens were from Kennebunk, Me., and
									Danvers and Springfield, Mass. It has been taken in New Jersey (Weiss) and at Clintonville and Springfield, Ohio (Kostir). Lugger (1898, 254) said that at that time it had
									succeeded in finding a new home in the Conservatory of the State University at
									Minneapolis, and, according to Oestlund, that they "had been there three years and
									multiply freely. They were at first noticed in connection with a shipment of
									Japanese umbrella plants from Florida." While not as yet recorded from Florida,
									the above would indicate that they occur in greenhouses in that State.
								A single specimen of Diestrammena unicolor
									Brunner (1888, 299), the Chinese greenhouse camel cricket, was
									received by Morse from a greenhouse at Chicago and recorded by him (Psyche, XI,
									1904, 80). It differs from D. japanica in its nearly uniform
									piceous hue and in having the front femora less than one-half longer than
									pronotum. It is liable to be found in any greenhouse that imports plants from
									China, its native country.
							

							
								III. UDEOPSYLLA
									Scudder, 1862a, 284. (Gr., "ground" + "flea.")

								Robust wingless Orthoptera, having the head larger and body stouter than in Ceuthophilus; vertex deflexed, flattened vertically; antennæ
									slender, not much longer than body, the third joint twice as long as second; eyes
									small, triangular, the apex below; third joint of palpi longer than first and
									second united, but shorter than fifth, fourth half the length of third; pronotum
									one-half longer than either meso- or metanotum; hind femora flattened, broad
									throughout the length, rather thin, outer lower margin with 8 to 20 small teeth,
									inner with eight or more longer stouter ones; hind tibiæ armed above on each
									margin with four long alternating, movable spines, between each pair of which are
									three or four short teeth; apex with three pairs of stout spurs, the inner median
									one the longer; hind tarsi with first and fourth joints subequal in length, each
									more than twice as long as second and third united.

								
									289. UDEOPSYLLA ROBUSTA
										(Haldeman), 1850, 346. Robust Camel Cricket.

									Color extremely variable, in typical robusta dark brown to
										reddish-brown, often blotched with fuscous; in var. nigra
										Scudd., black with dorsum of pronotum and legs often paler; in var. devius Scudd., uniform pale 
										reddish-brown. Dorsal segments of abdomen with numerous small scattered prickles
										or nodules. Subgenital plate of male deeply impressed but hot cleft; the lobes
										much swollen at middle, apex feebly notched. Ovipositor short, very stout at
										base, strongly tapering to middle, subequal beyond, the apex of outer valves
										obliquely excised, ending above in a sharp spine; lower valves armed beneath
										with four slender, unequally spaced teeth, and a slender decurved terminal hook.
										Length of body, ♂ and ♀, 18--26; of pronotum, 6--9; of hind femora, 14--23; of
										hind tibiæ, 16--20; of ovipositor, 6.5--8 mm. (Fig. 206.)
								
								
									Fig. 206. Female. X 1.3. (After Lugger.)
								

								This, our most robust camel cricket, varies greatly in color and size and has
									therefore been described under nine different names. It ranges from eastern
									Illinois north and west to Saskatchewan, Idaho and Utah and south and west to
									Kansas, Texas, New Mexico and Pasadena, Cal. The more eastern individuals are
									mostly of the black variety, U. nigra
									Scudd. (1862a, 284). Specimens of this form are in the Urbana
									collection from numerous points in Illinois (Hart & Malloch
									Ms.) while the brown form, typical robusta, was also taken at
									Havana, Ill., by Hart from beneath logs. Bruner (1886) says of its
									habits: "This 'cricket' is generally to be seen running rather sluggishly over
									plowed fields and along old roads on cloudy days or during early morning or in the
									evening just before sunset. It is nocturnal in habit and lives singly in burrows
									which it digs in the loose soil.
								Caudell (1916) first placed the different forms of Udeopsylla under one species and in addition to U. nigra
									placed the following as synonyms of U. robusta; Marsa arcuata
									F. Walker (1869, 254), Udeopsylla compacta
									Bruner (1891, 38), Centhophilus niger
									Scudd. (1862, 437), C. devius
									Scudd. (1894, 99), C. politus and C.
										ater
									Scudd. and Cock. (1902, 56, 57) and Daihinia
										gigantea
									Bruner (1885, 127). The forms U. nigra and U. devius represent color varieties and may be thus labelled if
									the student so desire.
							

							
								IV. CEUTHOPHILUS
									Scudder, 1862, 433. (Gr., "to hide" + "to love.") THE CAMEL OR STONE CRICKETS.

								Wingless Tettigoniidæ of medium or large size with a thick body and arched back;
									head large, oval, bent downward and backward between the front legs; antennæ long,
									slender, cylindrical, tapering to a fine point; eyes subpyriform, the narrow end
									downward,  placed a little above and close to the
									basal joint of antennæ; maxillary palpi long, slender, the apical joint longest,
									somewhat curved, split on the under side three-fourths of its length, which is
									nearly equal to that of the two preceding taken together; lateral lobes of
									pronotum covering the corresponding epimera; meso- and metanotum of the same form
									but shorter than pronotum; prosternum unarmed; fore and middle femora slender,
									relatively short, the former armed beneath on lower inner carinæ with one to four
									short spines, the latter on both lower carinæ with two to four similar spines;
									hind femora thick, heavy, turned inward at base, channeled beneath, with the
									margins of channel either serrate or spined in males, very feebly armed in
									females. Male with subgenital plate broad, usually emarginate or deeply cleft,
									rarely entire; sometimes with a pair of infracercal or podigal plates, incurved
									between the bases of the cerci. Ovipositor nearly straight, usually stout at base,
									and strongly tapering to middle, beyond which it is subequal, the outer valves
									obliquely excised and slightly upturned at tip; inner valves with three to seven
									teeth on under side of apical fourth, the tips of the valves ending in a curved
									tooth or "terminal hook." Cerci of both sexes long, slender, usually very
									hairy.
								These insects are seldom seen except by the professional collector. They are
									nocturnal in their habits, and during the day hide beneath stones along the
									margins of small woodland streams, or beneath logs and chunks in damp woods, in
									which places seldom less than two, nor more than three or four, are found
									associated together. Being wingless they make no noise, and, like most other
									silent creatures are supposed to be deaf, as no trace of an ear-drum is
									visible.
								That they are well-nigh omnivorous in their choice of food, I have determined by
									keeping them in confinement, when they fed upon meat as well as upon pieces of
									fruit and vegetables, seemingly preferring the latter. The majority of the species
									evidently reach maturity and deposit their eggs in late summer or early autumn, as
									the full grown insects are more common then, but have been taken as late as
									December 1st. The eggs, which are supposed to be laid in the earth, usually hatch
									in April, but some are hatched in autumn and the young live over winter, an
									anomaly among the Tettigoniidæ, as I have taken them on a number of occasions
									throughout the winter. Several of the species inhabit caves and are usually of
									larger size, with longer antennæ and smaller compound eyes than those found above
									ground.


								

								The genus Ceuthophilus is one of the largest among the
									Tettigoniidæ, and is confined to North America, and mostly to the United States.
										Scudder (1894) revised it, reducing to synonyms a number of those
									previously described, but describing so many new forms that, in the end, he had 57
									species, 24 of which were ascribed to the eastern states. His key and descriptions
									were based mainly on slight differences in the relative length of the fore and
									middle femora and hind tibiæ; the spination of the hind femora and other variable
									characters, so that the key is practically worthless. A number of his nominal
									species were based upon nymphs, in some of which the structural characters differ
									much from those of the adult.
								On account of the great number of forms, the absence of tegmina and wings, the
									similarity of hue and general facies, the study of this genus has been by far the
									most difficult part of this work, and the results in the end are not on the whole
									satisfactory. Scudder in his key did not take into consideration the characters
									pertaining to the secondary genital organs, which I have mainly used and which I
									have found far more stable than in most other groups of Orthoptera. My studies
									have shown that the adult males are quite readily separated by the variation in
									the form of the subgenital and supra-anal plates and the last dorsal segment of
									abdomen, while the females can usually be distinguished by the form and
									arrangement of the teeth on the inner valves of the ovipositor. As the two sexes
									are colored alike and are usually found in close proximity, the student who
									collects his own specimens will find little difficulty in placing the females by
									the key given below, which pertains mainly to the male sex. The color characters
									vary so greatly according to age and environment that except in latens, brevipes, uhleri and one or two others, they cannot be used in a
									key, while the armature of the lower carinæ of hind femora is constant only in nigricans, brevipes and terrestris. Many of the
									records in the local lists hitherto published are based on wrong identifications
									and the known range of the various species is, therefore, difficult to state.74

								
									KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF CEUTHOPHILUS.

									a. Each inner valve of ovipositor with six or seven very short and
										apically rounded teeth; ovipositor shorter than fore femora; male unknown. 290. ENSIFER.
									aa. Each inner valve of ovipositor with four (rarely three or five)
										teeth and a terminal hook, the tips of teeth acute (Pl. VII, i-s) except in tenebrarum.
								
								74All the drawings for
									the original illustrations showing the structure of abdominal appendages of Ceuthophilus were made by Dr. H. Fox.



								

								

									Plate VI. a--i, Showing form of male subgenital plates of Ceuthophilus; a, of C. nigricans; b, maculatus; c, tenebrarum; d, rehebi;
										e, uhleri; f, gracilipes; g, latens; h, terrestris; i, cæcus. j,
										Posterior dorsal view of extremity of male abdomen of C.
											tenebrarum showing--p, podigal plates lying between the bases of the
										cerci, c, and in front of the bilobed subgenital plate, g. k--n, Showing form of male supra-anal plates; k, of C. nigricans; 1, latens; m, seclusus; n, rehebi. o, Side view of last dorsal
										segment of C. seclusus showing its upward turn. (Original
										drawings by Fox.)
								


								


								
									Plate VII. Structures of Ceuthophilus. a, Male supra-anal
										plate of gracilipes. b--h, Dorsal views of last dorsal plate
										of males; b, of gracilipes; c, nigricans; d,
											maculatus; e, rehebi; f, latens; g, seclusus; h, cæcus; in c
										the last dorsal visible is the eighth, in the others the ninth. i--s, Outlines
										of apical portion of ovipositors showing number, form and arrangement of teeth
										of each inner valve; i, nigricans; j, maculatus; k, brevipes; l, tenebrarum; m, davisi; n, rehebi; o,
											uhleri; p, seclusus; q, latens; r, gracilipes; s, cæcus; 1
										and m are of the full ovipositor. All greatly enlarged. (Original drawings by
										Fox.)
								


								

								
									b. Subgenital plate of male entire, scoop-shaped (Pl. VI, a); hind femora of male armed on each lower carina with 25 or more
										small, nearly equal teeth; ovipositor with four, rarely five, slender, nearly
										equally spaced teeth on each valve, the terminal hook sometimes bifid (Pl. VII,
											i.) 291. NIGRICANS.
									bb. Subgenital plate of male either narrowly and deeply cleft or with a
										wide, V-shaped emargination between its lobes (Pl. VI, b, f);
										hind femora of male, except in terrestris, not armed as in nigricans.
									c. Hind margin of ninth dorsal of male broadly and deeply emarginate
										(Pl. VII, d); hind tibiæ of adult male distinctly bowed or
										curved on basal third; teeth of ovipositor triangular, of equal size, widely and
										unevenly spaced (Pl. VII, j.) 292. MACULATUS.
									cc. Hind margin of ninth segment usually entire, rarely with a small
										median notch or shallow concavity; hind tibiæ not distinctly bowed except
										occasionally in adult males of gracilipes.
									d. Male with a pair of prominent scoop-shaped or broadly spatulate,
										infracercal or podigal plates between the bases of the cerci (Pl. VI, j); subgenital plate thin, membranous, deeply cleft, the inner
										edges of its lobes feebly overlapping, their tips broadly and obliquely rounded
										and incurved (Pl. VI, c.)
									e. Hind femora stout, distinctly shorter than body, their lower outer
										carina with about 15 very short unequal teeth; general color pale brown mottled
										with paler yellow but not with fuscous. 293. BREVIPES.
									ee. Hind femora more slender, almost as long or longer than body, their
										outer carina armed with 7 to 10 stouter unequal, very unevenly spaced teeth;
										general color reddish-brown mottled with fuscous.
									f. Ovipositor slender throughout but feebly tapering, the tips of outer
										valves bluntly obliquely rounded; teeth of inner ones slender, unevenly spaced,
										unequal in size, often apparently very obtuse (Pl. VII, l.)
											294. TENEBRARUM.
									ff. Ovipositor much swollen at base, strongly tapering, tips of outer
										valves acute, upcurved; teeth of inner ones triangular, acute, subequal in size
										and evenly spaced (Pl. VII, m.) 295. DAISI.
									dd. Male with infracercal or podigal plates very short or invisible;
										lobes of subgenital plate with tips not thin, nor broadly rounded and
										incurved.
									g. Each inner valve of ovipositor armed with but three teeth and a
										terminal hook (Pl. VII, n); supra-anal plate of male
										tongue-shaped, its apex subtruncate and with a slight median notch (Pl. VI, n); terminal claws of hind tarsi less than half the length of
										their supporting segment. 296. REHEBI.
									gg. Each inner valve of ovipositor armed with four teeth and a terminal
										hook.


									


									h. Hind femori of male distinctly longer than body, very stout, strongly
										projecting behind the body, the upper inner and outer faces of their apical
										halves distinctly scabrous or roughened with numerous small raised points;
										general color above reddish-brown, never with a strongly contrasting median
										paler stripe.
									i. Surface of male dull, not polished or shining; teeth of ovipositor
										narrow, the basal one remote from the second (Pl. VII, o.) 297. UHLERI.
									ii. Surface of male strongly shining; female unknown; terminal claws of
										hind tarsi three-fourths the length of their supporting segment. 298. SPINOSUS.
									hh. Hind femora of male not distinctly longer than body and at the same
										time very stout and strongly scabrous; upper surface of body with distinct
										blackish or fuscous markings, these often so arranged as to leave a paler median
										line on thoracic segments.
									j. Supra-anal plate of male short, wide, deeply notched at middle, the
										lobes each side of notch produced into a sharp acute spine (Pl. VI, m); middle of ninth dorsal of male prolonged, curved and upturned (Pl.
										VII, g); teeth of ovipositor short, widely separated, the
										basal one the smaller and remote from the second (Pl. VII, p.)
											299. SECLUSUS.
									jj. Supra-anal of male not notched and armed as in j;
										ninth dorsal, if prolonged, not curved.
									k. Subgenital of male so cleft as to leave a wide, deep, V-shaped notch,
										this in great part filled with a membrane (Pl. VI, f); middle
										of ninth dorsal of male distinctly projecting beyond the eighth (Pl. VII, b.)
									l. Teeth of ovipositor closely and evenly spaced, broadly triangular,
										tapering regularly to an acute tip (Pl. VII, q); hind margin
										of projection of ninth segment of male rounded and with a minute median notch
										(Pl. VII, f); thoracic segments very dark and with a wide pale
										median stripe. 300. LATENS.
									ll. Teeth of ovipositor unevenly spaced, the basal one distinctly more
										remote from the second than the others from one another (Pl. VII, r); middle of ninth dorsal truncate or nearly so (Pl. VII, b); median pale stripe narrow or absent.
									m. Fore femora of male not over one-half longer than pronotum; teeth of
										ovipositor triangular, not suddenly constricted at middle; antennæ distinctly
										less than four times the length of body; basal third of hind tibiæ of adult
										males usually bowed; thoracic segments often with a  narrow pale median stripe; species not cave inhabiting.
									n. Hind femora stouter and shorter, not over four times longer than
										broad; supra-anal plate short oval or subcircular, concave only at center, its
										hind margin not broader than the middle (Pl. VII, a.) 301. GRACILIPES.
									nn. Hind femora very slender, more than five times as long as broad;
										supra-anal plate fan-shaped, concave across its full width, the hind margin much
										broader than the middle. 301a. HEROS.
									m. Fore femora three-fourths or more longer than pronotum; teeth of
										ovipositor suddenly constricted at middle, their apical halves very slender;
										antennæ of males four or more times the length of body; hind tibiæ straight;
										thoracic segments never with a pale median stripe; cave inhabiting species. 302. STYGIUS.
									kk. Subgenital plate deeply and narrowly cleft without a wide V-shaped
										notch (Pl. VI, h, i); middle of ninth dorsal but feebly
										projecting beyond the eighth.
									o. Hind femora of male armed with 25 to 30 small subequal, unevenly
										spaced teeth on each lower carina; subgenital plate narrow, deeply cleft, each
										lobe ending in a short, cylindrical projection, these subparallel and
										subcontiguous their tips curved outward (Pl. VI, h); teeth of
										ovipositor short, triangular, the basal one one-half more distant from the
										second than the others from one another. 303. TERRESTRIS.
									oo. Hind femora with eight to 15 unequal teeth on each lower carina;
										subgenital plate broad, its lobes feebly diverging to form a shallow apical
										notch, which is not filled with a membrane as in k (Pl. VI,
											i.)
									p. Ovipositor with rather stout, triangular, nearly equally spaced
										teeth, terminal hook short, stout, feebly decurved; lobes of male subgenital
										with outer angles prolonged but not divergent; inner median spurs of hind tibiæ
										nearly one-half longer than basal joint of hind tarsus. 304.
												LATIBULI.
									pp. Ovipositor with long, feebly curved, very slender needle-like teeth,
										terminal hook very slender, strongly decurved (Pl. VII, s);
										lobes of subgenital plate with outer angles ending in short, strongly divergent
										cylindrical projections (Pl. VI, i); inner median spurs of
										hind tibiæ shorter than basal joint of tarsus. 305. CÆCUS.
								


								

								
									290. CEUTHOPHILUS ENSIFER
										Packard, 1881, 882.

									Female.--Size rather small; form slender. Dull brownish-yellow, maculate
										with fuscous, especially on sides and hind margins of abdominal segments;
										pronotum with a large blackish T-shaped median spot; hind femora with oblique
										bars and subapical ring of fuscous. Fore femora about twice as long as pronotum,
										the lower inner carina with three or four spines; middle femur with three spines
										on outer and four on inner carina. Hind femora slender, shorter than tibiæ,
										slightly less than twice as long as fore femora, outer face with a few scattered
										small nodules, both lower carinæ armed with a few small distant slender teeth.
										Ovipositor short, less than two-thirds the length of hind femora, its apical
										third slender, upcurved, apex acute; inner valves armed with six or seven very
										short and broad apically rounded teeth, the basal one one-half more distant from
										the second than the intervals between the others; terminal hook very small,
										feebly decurved. Length of body, ♀, 19.5--22; of pronotum, 5.2; of fore femora,
										10; of hind femora, 18.7--20; of hind tibiæ, 20; of ovipositor. 7--8 mm.
								

								Known definitely only from the Nickajack Cave, Tenn., one of the two female types
									being an alcoholic specimen in the Cambridge Museum. Very distinct from all other
									species in the armature of the ovipositor, which is crenulate, not serrate in
									character. Aside from the type locality this species has been recorded only from
									Sugar Grove and Columbus, Ohio (Kostir), but this record is due
									to an error in identification, an examination of the specimens showing them to be
										C. tenebrarum Scudd.

								
									291. CEUTHOPHILUS NIGRICANS
										Scudder, 1894, 61. Yellow-bellied Camel Cricket.

									Size medium, form robust. Upper surface fuscous-brown, more or less mottled,
										especially on abdomen, with paler spots; pronotum with a median stripe, often
										obscure, of dull yellow, this sometimes extended back onto the abdomen, but
										there usually much interrupted; face, lower halves of lateral lobes of pro-
										meso- and metanotum, sides of abdomen and under surface uniform dull yellow;
										hind femora with vague oblique fuscous stripes, the basal third paler. Head
										short, vertex flattened, its terminal cone blunt, not compressed. Fore femora
										but slightly longer than pronotum. Hind femora of male stout, about as long as
										body, equally curved above and beneath, armed as described in key; of female
										more slender, with a number of very fine teeth on apical third of both lower
										margins. Hind tibiæ slender, straight, about as long as femora. Male with
										supra-anal plate triangular, tongue-shaped (Pl. VI, k);
										subgenital plate scoop-shaped, its apex rounded, entire, sometimes impressed
										behind. Ovipositor half or more as long as hind tibiæ, straight, rather strongly
										tapering, tip of upper valves acute, slightly upcurved; inner valves armed as in
										key and Pl. VI, i. Length of body, ♂ and ♀, 12.5--14; of
										pronotum, ♂, 4.4--6, ♀, 4.6--6; of fore femora, ♂, 5--6.5, ♀, 5--5.6; of hind
										femora, ♂, 12--16, ♀, 10.5--13.5; of hind tibiæ, ♂, 12--15.5, ♀, 11.5--13; of
										ovipositor, 6--7.5 mm. 
								


								

								Putnam Co., Ind.; North Madison, Conn. (W. S. B.); Cabin John
									Run, Md. and Alexandria Co., Va., Sept., trapped in molasses jar (Davis). This is the species usually known as Ceuthophilus
										neglectus
									Scudder (1894, 67), an examination of the types of both showing them
									to be the same, the name nigricans having a six-page priority in
									Scudder's 1894 paper. The unique male type of nigricans from
									Tyrone, Ky., in the Agricultural Experiment Station collection at Lexington, Ky.,
									is a small, rather dark, compact-bodied individual, but in the distinctive form of
									subgenital and supra-anal plates and in the armature of hind femora, it agrees in
									every respect with the Ithaca, New York type of C. neglectus in
									the Scudder collection.
								The known range of C. nigricans extends from New England and
									Ontario west to central Indiana and Kentucky, and south to Orange, Va. R.
										& H. (1916, 277) state that C. neglectus, the
									synonym, is one of the more abundant if not the most abundant species of the genus
									in the region above mentioned. Morse (1919a) says that it probably
									occurs throughout New England in woodlands, and (1919) that the male "can usually
									be recognized at once by the yellowish color of the underparts, and by having the
									ninth tergum completely hidden by the crescentically thickened parabolic margin of
									the eighth tergum; and in the subgenital plate being short, scoop-shaped, with
									thickened semicircular, nearly horizontal margin."
								Walker (1905, 117) records a single pair of half-grown young of C. neglectus from Niagara Glen, Ont. About Washington, D. C. it is
									the dominant species of the genus, mating September 24 and eggs laid September 29.
									West of New York nigricans, as neglectus, has
									heretofore been recorded only from Jefferson, Ohio (Kostir). It
									is the C. terrestris of my former work (1903, 406), specimens
									having been so identified for me by Scudder, who confused his terrestris and neglectus. The young are darker and more
									maculate with yellow than the adults.

								
									292. CEUTHOPHILUS MACULATUS
										(Harris), 1841, 126. Spotted Camel Cricket.

									Size medium, form robust. Dark sooty-brown, with often a median stripe of
										paler brown on thoracic segments; below dull brownish-yellow; dorsal surface of
										abdomen with a number of small yellow spots, these often confluent and sometimes
										in regular transverse rows; antennæ and legs pale reddish-brown; hind femora
										with numerous narrow oblique dark brown bars. Vertex ending in a subdepressed
										triangle. Fore femora one-fourth to one-third longer than pronotum. Hind femora
										about the length of body, outer carina in male with 8 to 15 unequal, rather
										coarse teeth, inner carina  with about the same
										number of much smaller subequal teeth; female with a number of small,
										inconspicuous spinules on each carina. Hind tibiæ slightly longer than femora,
										the basal third in adult males distinctly arcuate or bowed. Male supra-anal
										plate with basal portion corneous, widely forked, the interval between the forks
										membranous, the apex truncate; subgenital plate wide, deeply cleft, the interval
										membranous, the outer angle of each lobe thickened, broadly rounded, projected
										obliquely outward (Pl. VI, b.) Ovipositor two-thirds as long
										as hind femora, gently tapering, the tips of outer valves slightly upturned;
										inner valves armed as in key and Pl. VII, j, the terminal hook
										decurved. Length of body, ♂, 14--15.5, ♀, 16--19; of pronotum, ♂, 4.6-5, ♀,
										4.8--6; of fore femora, ♂ and ♀, 6--7; of hind femora, ♂ and ♀, 15--16; of hind
										tibiæ, 16--17; of ovipositor, 9.3--10 mm. (Fig. 207.)
								

								
									Fig. 207. Female. (After Lugger.)
								

								Frequent throughout southern Indiana, June 28--Sept. 7; not as yet taken, though
									doubtless occurs in the northern counties. It is found beneath logs and stones in
									both dry and moist situations. The known range of this stone cricket is northern,
									extending from Nova Scotia and New England west to Minnesota and Colorado and
									south to Kentucky, Missouri and Kansas. Some of the southern and western records
									are, however, doubtful.
								Piers (1918, 326) calls it "an ungainly insect with a cringing
									attitude," and records specimens taken by Gooderham at Truro and Granville Ferry,
									N. S. in August. Walker found it in Quebec associated with terrestris under flat stones at the bottom of a wooded hill and also at
									Niagara Glen, Ont. Morse (1919a) calls it "Our commonest
									camel-cricket, probably found throughout New England; gregarious under stones,
									logs and in cellars." Lugger says it is the most abundant species in Minnesota and
									Bruner reports it as occurring rather commonly in eastern and middle Nebraska. The
									most definite southeastern record which can be found is that of Smith (1910,
										180) from Morris Plains and Ft. Lee, N. Jer.
								The C. latebricola and C. bicolor
									Scudder (1894, 37, 72) are in my opinion synonyms of maculatus. The former is represented in the Cambridge collection by only
									two females. At Lexington, Ky., there are however a nymph and two adult males and
									two females labelled by Scudder as latebricola. The males have
									the concave ninth dorsal and bowed hind tibiæ of maculatus. The
									subgenital differs slightly in the form of the apical notch, it being more
									U-shaped and with a shorter intervening membrane than in typical maculatus. Two or three of the spines of the outer carinæ  of hind femora are much swollen at base, a worthless
									character, used by Scudder in his key. One of the females is a typical maculatus; the other more robust and with inner valves of
									ovipositor with but three teeth and terminal hook is a specimen of C.
										rehebi described below. C. bicolor was based upon a
									single immature male of C. maculatus taken at Bee Spring, Ky.
									and now in the Cambridge collection.

								
									293. CEUTHOPHILUS BREVIPES
										Scudder, 1862, 434. Short-legged Camel Cricket.

									Small for the genus; compact, robust. Pale dull brown, thickly marked with
										rather large yellowish spots, these arranged in a cross-row on each abdominal
										segment and scattered irregularly over the hind femora, aggregated near the knee
										to nearly form a pale ring; thoracic segments less mottled than abdomen, the
										pronotum sometimes with a narrow median pale stripe; face, palpi and under
										surface uniform dull yellow. Fore and middle legs subequal. Hind femora very
										short and stout, both lower carinæ armed with 10 to 15 very minute unequal
										teeth, male, almost unarmed, female. Hind tibiæ slightly longer than femora,
										their inner middle apical spur almost as long as basal joint of tarsi.
										Supra-anal plate of male, membranous, triangular, prolonged between the cerci,
										its sides and apical margin subangulate; infracercal or podigal plates, strongly
										developed, oblong-spatulate, curved inward, their tips attingent; subgenital
										plate deeply cleft, its lobes thin, membranous, contiguous or feebly
										overlapping, their tips separated to form a small apical notch, each tip broadly
										and obliquely rounded. Ovipositor with apical half very slender; inner valves
										with four very short, slender, subcylindrical teeth, the basal one the smaller,
										obtuse, remote from the second; hook strongly curved, acute (Pl. VII, k.) Length of body, ♂, 14, ♀, 15.5; of pronotum, ♂ and ♀,
										4--4.5; of fore femora, 5.5--6; of hind femora, ♂, 11, ♀, 13; of hind tibiæ, ♂,
										12, ♀, 13.5; of ovipositor, 8--8.5 mm.
								

								Described from Grand Manan Isle, Maine. Known elsewhere definitely only from St.
									Johns, New Brunswick. The Vigo Co., Ind. specimens, identified and recorded by
									Scudder, are C. seclusus and C. tenebrarum;
									while the ones recorded by Walden, on my authority, from North Madison, Conn., are
										C. maculatus and C. nigricans.

								
									294. CEUTHOPHILUS TENEBRARUM
										Scudder, 1894, 70.

									Size medium, form slender. Above reddish-yellow, thickly maculate with large
										blackish blotches; these arranged each side on the hind margins of thoracic
										segments, leaving a broad, pale, median stripe; this usually bordered below on
										front half of pronotum by a black line; abdomen mottled with black and round
										yellow dots the latter usually in transverse rows; face, antennæ and fore and
										middle legs dusky or brownish-yellow; outer face of hind femora often with a
										broad fuscous stripe in addition to the usual oblique bars; hind tibiæ tinged
										with fuscous. Vertex ending in a blunt, convex triangle. Fore and middle tibiæ
										slender, subequal, one-third  longer than
										pronotum. Hind femora slender, the lower sulcus deep, narrow, armed in both
										sexes on outer margin with 5 to 9 short, subequal, unevenly spaced teeth, on
										inner margin with 7 to 12 still smaller ones, those of female very minute. Hind
										tibiæ scarcely longer than femora, their marginal spines short, stout; inner
										median spur shorter than metatarsus; terminal spurs of hind tarsus less than
										half the length of fourth segment. Male with ninth dorsal entire, feebly
										prolonged and upturned, its margin rounded; supra-anal with broad corneous
										deeply emarginate base, the membranous portion within the notch forming a
										concave disk, with lower apical portion compressed and projected back between
										the very large, incurved, spatulate infracercal or podigal plates. Subgenital
										plate as in d of key and Pl. VI, c.
										Ovipositor as in key and Pl. VII, l. Length of body, ♂,
										14--17, ♀, 13--16; of pronotum, ♂, 6--7, ♀, 5--6; of fore femora, ♂ and ♀, 8--9;
										of hind femora, ♂, 14--18, ♀, 13--19; of hind tibiæ, ♂, 15--19, ♀, 14--20; of
										ovipositor, 9--11 mm.
								

								Vigo Co., Ind. (W. S. B.); Rabun Co., Ga., July (Davis); Sugar Grove and Columbus, Ohio (Kostir) ; U. S.
									Nat. Mus., Ohio. This species is very distinct from all others in the form of the
									supra-anal plate of male, and especially in the slender, blunt-pointed ovipositor,
									the inner valves of which are often covered with a membrane, their armature then
									appearing as four very low, wide humps or convexities, the basal one scarcely
									evident (Pl. VII, l.) The Bee Spring, Ky., male type in the
									Scudder collection, so fixed by R. & H. (1912b, 70), as well as
									the specimens in the Lexington collection are immature and not distinctive of the
									species as above described. The type, in fact, appears more like a male of C. brevipes, than one of tenebrarum. The known
									range of this species extends from Port Byron, Ill. (female allotype) east to
									Kentucky and central Ohio and south to Beaufort and Rabun Co., Ga.

								
									295. CEUTHOPHILUS DAVISI sp. nov. Davis's Camel
										Cricket.

									Size small for the genus; form slender. Dark reddish or dusky brown;
										thoracic segments usually in great part fuscous, their lateral lobes with a few
										small yellow spots, and dorsum of pronotum with an indistinct narrow pale
										stripe; hind femora dusky brown or fuscous above, dull yellow beneath, all the
										tibiæ dull yellow; hind margin of each abdominal segment dusky; sides of abdomen
										with a few faint yellowish spots. Vertex ending in a blunt compressed cone. Fore
										and middle femora subequal in size and length, about one-fifth longer than
										pronotum. Hind femora about five-sixths the length of body, those of male armed
										beneath on outer lower carina with eight to ten very short, blunt, unevenly
										spaced teeth; on inner one with six to eight more slender, sharper ones; wholly
										unarmed in female. Last dorsal of male entire, not prolonged; supra-anal
										tongue-shaped, deeply grooved along the middle; subgenital and infracercal
										plates as described in key. Ovipositor as in key and Pl. VII, m, the terminal hook slender, strongly decurved. Length of body, ♂,
										14--16, ♀, 13--15; of pronotum, 4.5--5; of hind femora, 12.5--13.5; of
										ovipositor, 7 mm.
								


								


								Staten Island, N. Y., July--August. Davis states (Ms.) that he has taken
									specimens "on numerous occasions in the forested parts of Staten Island by baiting
									tin cans with molasses and fusel oil."
								Named in honor of W. T. Davis, of New Brighton, Staten Island, N. Y., whose
									enthusiasm as a naturalist and generosity as a scientist are highly appreciated by
									all his co-workers.

								
									296. CEUTHOPHILUS REHEBI sp. nov. Rehn & Hebard's
										Camel Cricket.

									Size medium; form compact, robust. Ground color above pale to dark
										reddish-brown blotched with fuscous, the blotches varying in intensity, usually
										most distinct on abdomen, where they are broken by numerous small rounded dull
										yellow spots; face, fore and middle legs and under surface a nearly uniform dull
										yellow; hind femora with the usual narrow oblique dusky stripes; tips of spines
										and teeth of hind tibiæ brown. Vertex ending in a blunt convex cone. Fore femora
										scarcely one-sixth longer than pronotum, the inner lower carina with two
										subapical spines; middle femora slightly longer, more slender, both carinæ with
										three slender spines. Hind femora longer than body, of moderate width, gradually
										tapering, the upper and outer apical half feebly roughened with very minute
										appressed spines; lower sulcus deep, narrow, its outer carina in male with 9--14
										unequal, irregularly spaced teeth, the three middle ones usually the longer;
										inner carina with fewer, shorter teeth; outer carina in female with three or
										four, inner, with eight or more very short, sharp teeth. Hind tibiæ distinctly
										longer than femora, their marginal spines and teeth relatively short and stout;
										inner median spur one-third longer than outer median one, slightly shorter than
										metatarsus; terminal spurs of hind tarsus less than half the length of those of
											C. spinosus. Ninth dorsal of male very short, feebly
										projecting, its apex rounded (Pl. VII, e); supra-anal plate
										tongue-shaped, produced backward between the bases of the cerci, its apex
										subtruncate and with a slight median notch (Pl. VI, n.)
										Subgenital cordiform, deeply cleft, its lobes each swollen at middle, feebly
										overlapping within, their tips subangulate but not produced (Pl. VI, d.) Ovipositor strongly tapering, the apex of outer valves
										obliquely truncate, ending in a sharp spine; inner valves with but three
										slender, irregularly spaced teeth; terminal hook very slender, rather strongly
										decurved (Pl. VII, n.) Length of body, ♂ and ♀, 14.5--16.5; of
										fore femora, 7; of hind femora, ♂, 16--17, ♀, 14--15; of hind tibiæ, ♂, 17--18,
										♀, 15--16; of ovipositor, 11--12 mm.
								

								Yaphank and Staten Island, N. Y. (Davis.) This is the species
									treated by R. & H. (1916, 274) as C. spinosus
									Scudd. Its known range extends from New York, southwest to Atlanta, Ga. and west
									to Lexington, Ky. Davis has trapped numerous specimens in molasses jars at various
									points. I have named it in honor of R. & H., that pair of enthusiastic
									entomologists who, by their extended field work and numerous writings, have done
									so much to put the science of Orthopterology on a par with that of other orders of
									insects.


								


								
									297. CEUTHOPHILUS UHLERI
										Scudder, 1862, 435. Uhler's Camel Cricket.

									Size medium or above; form robust; surface dull, smooth. Pale reddish-brown
										or clay yellow, irregularly flecked with fuscous, especially on pronotum and
										abdomen, the female and young somewhat darker; legs pale brown, apical portions
										of femora more or less infuscated. Vertex strongly deflexed, ending in a
										compressed triangular cone. Fore femora more than a third longer than pronotum,
										male, one-fourth longer, female. Hind femora of male longer than body, the
										apical half of outer face scabrous with numerous small projections; of female,
										shorter, almost smooth; lower sulcus in mature males usually exceptionally broad
										and shallow, its outer carina with seven to nine very unequal irregularly spaced
										spines, the middle two slightly the larger; inner carina armed with 16 to 20
										small teeth; lower sulcus in female much less broad, the inner carina with
										numerous, the outer with only a few small teeth. Hind tibiæ slightly longer than
										the corresponding femora in both sexes. Male with supra-anal plate strongly
										deflexed, triangular, grooved at middle, its apex broadly rounded; subgenital
										plate emarginate at apex, deeply cleft, the tip of each lobe thickened, suberect
										or obliquely rounded (Pl. VI, e.) Outer valves of ovipositor
										with tips considerably upturned, their lower margins strongly tapering to the
										acute apex; inner valves armed as in key and Pl. VII, o, the
										terminal hook short, sharp, strongly uncinate or decurved. Length of body, ♂,
										13.5--15.5, ♀, 13--16; of pronotum, ♂, 4.8--6, ♀, 4.6--5.3; of fore femora, ♂,
										6.5--8, ♀, 6--7.3; of hind femora, ♂, 15--18, ♀, 13--14.5; of hind tibiæ, ♂,
										15.3--19, ♀, 15--16; of ovipositor, 8--9.5 mm. (Fig. 208.)
								
								
									Fig. 208. Male. X 1.3. (Original.)
								

								Vigo, Putnam and Marion counties, Ind., Aug. 25--Nov. 17; (W. S.
										B.) ; Alexandria Co., Va., Sept. 24 (Davis). In central
									Indiana uhleri is one of the more common species of Ceuthophilus. It is usually found from July to November in small colonies
									of three to six or more, beneath rails and logs in rather dry situations, being
									especially fond of low, open second bottom woods, with a loamy or sandy soil. The
									young have been taken in similar places in December and February, but evidently
									the larger number of eggs do not hatch until spring. It has not, as yet, been
									taken in either the northern or southern third of the State, but probably occurs
									throughout.
								After a careful study of Scudder's types of both forms, as well as of a number of
									paratypes of each named for me by him, I have placed his C.
										blatchleyi (1894, 57) as a synonym of uhleri, it having
									been based on immature males, in which the hind femora  are more slender, with lower sulcus narrower than in the adults. The
									number, spacing and size of the spines on the lower margins is variable and
									unreliable as a specific character. The form of the male subgenital plate as well
									as that of the armature of the inner valves of ovipositor is similar in the two
									forms.
								The known range of C. uhleri is southern, extending from New
									York and New Jersey west to central Indiana and south to Tennessee and
									northeastern Georgia. Wherever found it usually occurs in some numbers. At Cabin
									John Run, Md. Davis trapped 14 males and 34 females in molasses jars. It is
									recorded from Ohio without comment by Mead; from Tennessee by Brunner and from
									numerous stations about Washington, D. C., by McAtee and Caudell. Lugger describes
										C. blatchleyi fully but gives no record for Minnesota and
									Bruner records a species as doubtfully >uhleri from
									Nebraska.

								
									298. CEUTHOPHILUS SPINOSUS
										Scudder, 1894, 58.

									Size rather large, form robust; surface of male shining. Reddish brown;
										under surface, legs and lower third of thoracic segments nearly uniform dull
										yellow; meso- and metanotum each with an irregular transverse row of small
										yellow spots; hind femora with the usual narrow oblique dusky bars. Vertex
										ending in a blunt cone. Hind femora longer than body, its basal three-fourths
										very stout, upper and outer faces strongly scabrous with numerous short nodules
										or spines; outer lower carina of basal two-thirds with six to nine teeth, these
										gradually increasing in size, the three distal ones spinose, much the larger;
										these followed by four or five smaller subapical teeth; inner carina with
										numerous small subequal teeth. Hind tibiæ distinctly longer than femora, their
										upper marginal spines very long and slender, inner median spur longer than
										metatarsus; terminal spurs of hind tarsi very long, strongly tapering,
										three-fourths the length of the fourth segment. Ninth dorsal slightly
										projecting, feebly concave at middle. Supra-anal tongue-shaped, concave, its
										apex bluntly rounded; subgenital deeply cleft, its lobes thin, their inner
										margins contiguous throughout or slightly overlapping at middle, the tip of each
										either subtruncate or ending in a very short subspatulate knob. Length of body,
										♂, 13--16; of pronotum, 5--6.8; of fore femora, 7--9; of hind femora, 15--20; of
										hind tibiæ, 16--21 mm.
								

								Dunedin, Fla., Dec. 9, one male (W. S. B.) Scudder's unique
									male type was from Georgia and the Dunedin specimen differs from it only in its
									larger size, longer and more swollen hind femora and in having the tips of lobes
									of subgenital plate subtruncate, not ending in very short projections, as there.
									The two males are the only specimens known, the C. spinosus
									Scudd. of R. & H. (1916, 274) being a very different species. The
									Dunedin specimen was taken from beneath a chunk on sandy soil in open pine woods,
									only 200 yards from the beach of the bay.


								


								The Phalangopsis scabripes of Haldeman (1853, 364)
									is evidently closely related to both C. uhleri and hi>C. spinosus and may be the same as one of them. The type appears to be
									lost. His brief description is as follows: 
										"Flavous mottled with black, especially upon the posterior margins of all the
											segments; knee joints of all the feet and base of the antennæ, brown. Upper
											extremity of the femora strongly curved inwards toward the base; externally
											and above regularly reticulate with blackish and scabrous with raised points
											which are mostly confined to the dark portions; under margin with a row of
											small spines enlarging posteriorly. Length, ♂, 11 lines, antennæ, 48,
											posterior femora, 11, tibiæ 12 1/2, tarsi 4 1/2. One specimen Selma, Alabama.
											Resembles Ph. lapidicola Burm. and gracilipes Hald. in size but differs from the former by the smaller
											femoral spines and from the latter by the scabrous femora."
									
								

								The "scabrous hind femora" furnishes the only character giving any clue to the
									proper placement of this species. That and the great length of body, hind femora
									and tibiæ show its close relationship to C. spinosus, but the
									color, as described, is widely different. I can, therefore, only publish the
									description and leave to others so inclined the privilege of attaching the name to
									some definite form.

								
									299. CEUTHOPHILUS SECLUSUS
										Scudder, 1894, 45.

									Size medium, form robust. Above blackish-fuscous, shining, thickly mottled
										with rounded, often more or less confluent, dull yellow spots; pronotal and
										basal segments often with a narrow median reddish-yellow dorsal stripe; face,
										front and middle legs and under surface dull yellow; hind femora with narrow
										oblique fuscous bars; knees fuscous. Fore and middle femora subequal. Hind
										femora slender, gradually tapering, nearly as long as body, both lower carinæ in
										both sexes armed with 20 or more very small, unequally spaced teeth. Hind tibiæ
										with inner median spur as long as basal joint of tarsus. Ninth dorsal of male
										with median portion produced, strongly upcurved, its hind margin broadly rounded
										(Pl. VII, g); supra-anal plate as in key and P. VI, m; subgenital plate broad, the membranous median portion
										shallowly cleft, not emarginate, the corneous forks or lobes forming the sides
										of plate swollen at middle. Ovipositor as in key and Pl. VII, p; terminal hook short, nearly straight. Length of body, ♂, 12--17, ♀,
										16--18; of pronotum, ♂, 3.5--6, ♀, 5.2--6; of fore femora, ♂, 5--8, ♀, 6--8.2;
										of hind femora, ♂, 11--16, ♀, 15--16; of hind tibiae, ♂, 11--18, ♀, 16--17; of
										ovipositor, 9.5--10.5 mm.
								

								Vigo Co., Ind., Sept. 21 (W. S. B.). Described from Dallas and
									Crawford Cos., Iowa and West Point, Neb. My Vigo Co. male (brevipes in part 1903, 407) agrees in all respects except in its larger
									size with the types at Cambridge. The upturned ninth dorsal appears broadly and
									shallowly concave, due to its curved form. The peculiar form of the spined
									supra-anal at once distinguishes the male from all others.


								


								
									300. CEUTHOPHILUS LATENS
										Scudder 1862, 437. Black-sided Camel Cricket.

									Size medium; form robust. Dull brownish-yellow or reddish-brown, with two
										broad bands of shining fuscous or blackish along the pro- meso- and metanotum,
										these extending half way down the sides and separated from one another by a
										rather wide median stripe of pale reddisb-brown; sides below the black stripes,
										face, under surface and legs dull clay-yellow; dorsal surface of abdomen and
										outer face of apical half of hind femora dotted with brownish-yellow, the dots
										sometimes confluent, sometimes in apparently regular rows; hind femora with
										numerous faint oblique very narrow dark lines; knees fuscous; spines of hind
										tibimæ black at base. Vertex strongly flattened vertically ending in a blunt
										cone. Fore femora nearly one-third longer than pronotum, male, but slightly
										longer, female. Hind femora about as long as body, the swollen portion very
										gradually tapering; both outer and inner carinæ in both sexes armed with only a
										few minute spines. Hind tibiæ straight, no longer than the femora, the inner
										median apical spur as long as basal joint of tarsus. Male with last dorsal as in
										key and Pl. VII, f; supra-anal plate short, broad, feebly
										notched at middle of hind margin (Pl. VI, l); subgenital plate
										broad, deeply and widely cleft, lobes not thickened, each with apex broadly
										obliquely rounded (Pl. VI, g.) Ovipositor about two-thirds as
										long as hind femora, straight, tapering; inner valves armed as in key and Pl.
										VIII, q, the terminal hook shorter than the teeth, slightly
										decurved. Length of body, ♂, 14--15, ♀, 15--17; of pronotum, ♂, 4.6--5.5, ♀,
										5--5.9; of fore femora, ♂, 5.8--6.8, ♀, 5.4--6; of hind femora, ♂, 13--14.7, ♀,
										12--15; of hind tibiæ, ♂, 13.4--15.5, ♀, 13--15; of ovipositor, 8.1--9.2
										mm.
								

								Putnam and Vigo counties, Ind., July 20--Oct. 20 (W. S. B.).
									Alexandria Co., Va., Sept. (Davis). This handsome species has
									been taken in Indiana only in the counties mentioned, where it is most commonly
									found beneath flat stones near the margins of small streams in upland hilly
									localities. It reaches maturity in July, probably from specimens hatched in
									spring, though I have taken the young on two different occasions in February. It
									is sometimes affected by the parasitic hairworm, Gordius sp.
								The known range of C. latens extends from Connecticut and
									Ithaca, N. Y., west to Illinois and southwest to Virginia. Scudder has also
									recorded it from Texas and Bruner from eastern Nebraska. In Virginia Davis trapped
									36 males and 26 females in molasses jars. Hubbell reports it as taken in Cheboygan
									Co., Mich. and Caudell as mating at Plummer's Island, Md., on Sept. 24.

								
									301. CEUTHOPHILUS GRACILIPES
										(Haldeman), 1850, 346. Slender-legged Camel Cricket.

									Very large for the genus; form robust. Brownish-yellow or reddish-brown,
										shining; above heavily marked with fuscous-brown, the latter usually forming a
										bar across the hind margin of most of the dorsal segments and covering the
										greater part of pro- and mesonotum, often separated on  these by a median row of large elongate spots of the paler hue;
										sides of the segments, especially those of abdomen in female, sprinkled with
										small yellow spots; legs dull yellow, hind femora with the usual narrow oblique
										dusky lines; tips of all the spines brown. Vertex ending in an obtuse triangular
										cone. Antennæ three times or more the length of body, evenly tapering. Legs very
										long and slender. Fore and middle femora subequal, nearly one-half longer than
										pronotum. Hind femora about as long as body, the upper surface nearly smooth;
										male with outer lower carina elevated and armed with 7 to 13 unequally spaced
										spines, which vary much in size; the inner with numerous much smaller teeth; in
										female both carinæ of equal width and armed with a few very small denticles.
										Hind tibiæ straight or in old males feebly curved near base, about one-sixth
										longer than femora, the inner median subapical spine scarcely longer than the
										outer, distinctly shorter than basal joint of tarsi. Male with middle of ninth
										dorsal strongly produced backward and slightly upward, subtruncate (Pl. VII, b); middle of supra-anal plate membranous, transversely oval,
										deeply concave, its apex either subtriangular and subacute or rounded (Pl. VII,
											a); subgenital plate cleft almost to base, its lobes
										separated by a wide and deep V-shaped notch filled with a membrane; each lobe
										triangular, thickened at middle, its tip obtuse, rarely slightly prolonged (Pl.
										VI, f.) Ovipositor slender, feebly tapering, about
										three-fourths the length of hind femora; outer valves with apex obliquely
										truncate, the tips subacute; inner valves armed with four rather short, broadly
										triangular teeth, the basal one one-half more distant from the second than the
										average distance between the others, the terminal hook, short, stout, blunt,
										decurved (Pl. VII, r.) Length of body, ♂, 19--23.5, ♀, 21--23;
										of antennæ, ♂, 75--85, ♀, 90; of pronotum, ♂, 5.1--6.2, ♀, 6.7--7.2; of fore
										femora, ♂, 9--11.5, ♀, 10.6--12; of hind femora, ♂, 18--24, ♀, 19--25; of hind
										tibiæ, ♂, 21--26, ♀, 22--26; of ovipositor, 11--14.5 mm. (Fig. 209.)
								
								
									Fig. 209. Female. X 1.3. (After Lugger.)
								

								This camel cricket occurs in small numbers throughout Indiana. In color and in
									the armature of hind femora of the males, it varies exceedingly, the younger and
									more northern specimens being often much darker than adults from the South, some
									of the larger northern adults having a pattern very similar to that of C. latens. In Indiana it occurs for the most part in rather moist
									woods, but often beneath logs and other debris near the borders of ponds and
									lakes.
								An examination of the types at Cambridge shows that Caudell (1916,
										666) and R. & H. (1916, 270) were right in placing C. grandis
									Scudder (1894, 38) as a synonym of gracilipes; also
									that the  form which Scudder described in his last
									work on Ceuthophilus (1894, 50) as C.
										lapidicola
									Burm. (1838, 723) cannot be distinguished by any good structural
									character from what I recognize above as C. gracilipes. He
									separates them in his key only by the hind tibiæ of male being "at least a tenth
									longer than hind femora" (gracilipes) or "distinctly less than a
									tenth longer," (lapidicola). The specimens which he set aside in
									the Cambridge collection as lapidicola differ from those of gracilipes only in their general darker hue, the secondary genital
									characters of both sexes being very nearly the same as those of gracilipes, the only appreciable difference being that in lapidicola the lobes of the subgenital plate of male are a little more
									rounded at apex. The original description of both lapidicola and
										gracilipes are very brief, being as follows: 
										"Ph. lapidicola Germ.: Testacea nitida, dorso vitta utrique
											longitudinali fusco-nebulosa s. marmorata. . Long. corp. 10"', ped. post 1
											1/2". Aus Virginien und Sud- Carolina, 2 weibliche examplare in Germar's
											Sammlung."
										"Ph. gracilipes Hald. Shining yellowish-brown, mottled;
											colors arranged transversely; limbs longer than in any other American species,
											the posteriar femora of male being 12 and the tibiæ 13 lines, in a specimen
											ten lines long. This species is from central Pennsylvania and is nearest
											allied to Ph. lapidicola Burm., which extends from eastern
											Pennsylvania to Georgia. Ph. maculata Harris is allied to
											the latter, but it has the posterior tibiæ in the male waved at base."
									
								

								Haldeman's description is scarcely more distinctive than Burmeister's, but it has
									the advantage of having a certain form applied to it from the time it was made
									until the present, while no one can tell to what species the two females in the
									Germar collection, described by Burmeister, belong. Scudder and other writers for
									many years applied Burmeister's name to the form herein recognized as C. terrestris Scudd. It is better, therefore, to drop the name lapidicola from our lists until the species to which it was
									originally applied can be correctly identified by an examination of the types, if
									they still exist.
								The C. pallidipes
									Walker (1905, 115) is, as R. & H. (1916, 272) have
									shown, only a small dark form of what they recognize (following Scudder) as C. lapidicola Burm. Specimens of this form are at hand from
									various points in Michigan, some of them received from Hubbell as C.
										meridionalis
									Scudd. (1894, 66), described from Chihuahua, Mex. An examination of
									the type of that form at Cambridge shows that it is at the most only a
									southwestern race of gracilipes.


								


								The known range of C. gracilipes, as above recognized,
									therefore extends from central Ontario and southern New England west to Manitoba,
									Minnesota, Nebraska and Colorado, and south and southwest to Georgia, Mississippi
									and Chihuahua, Mex. While the size, color and armature of the hind femora vary
									greatly over this large range, the prolonged truncate last dorsal and form of
									subgenital of male, and the form and arrangement of teeth of ovipositor remain
									almost constant and furnish characters of easy recognition.
								Walker states that in central Ontario his C. pallidipes is the
									most common species of the genus, usually occuring under chunks and small logs in
									woods, or in rotten sodden logs, from two to seven being usually found together. A
									few pass the winter in the nymph stage though most of them reach maturity in July
									from eggs hatched in spring.
								In Connecticut gracilipes has been taken by Walden in cellars
									and under bark of trees. Smith (1910, 190) records it from two points
									in New Jersey where it was taken in dark cellars and barns, under stones and in
									hollow trees. In Maryland and Virginia Davis has trapped numerous specimens in
									molasses jars.

								
									301a. CEUTHOPHILUS GRACILIPES HEROS
										Scudder, 1894, 54.

									Size, form and color much as in gracilipes. Hind femora
										proportionally much more slender, being 25x4 mm. in greatest dimensions as
										against 23.5x5.5 in gracilipes of the same size; the spines of
										their lower outer margin more equal in size and more evenly spaced. Supra-anal
										plate very different in form, being fan-shaped, twice as broad as long with the
										concavity extending across its full width; its hind margin much broader than in
											gracilipes, subtruncate or broadly rounded. Ovipositor
										proportionally longer and more slender, the teeth of inner valves more aculeate,
										less broad at base and nearly equidistant one from another; terminal hook more
										slender, subcylindrical, obtuse at tip, feebly decurved. Length of body, ♂,
										23.5, ♀, 21; of antennæ, ♂, 85, ♀, 92; of pronotum, ♂, 6.3, ♀, 7.2; of fore
										femora, ♂, 11.5, ♀, 12; of hind femora, ♂ and ♀, 25; of hind tibiæ, 25.5--26; of
										ovipositor, 15 mm.
								

								After examining the types of heros at Cambridge and the
									paratype at Philadelphia, I cannot agree with R. & H. in making it an absolute
									synonym of gracilipes. The differences between the two are very
									evident and are set forth in the key and above description. Scudder's types of heros were taken in North Carolina by Morrison, over 200 having
									been found in one old hollow tree. It has been recorded elsewhere only from Ohio,
									but the specimens so recorded are gracilipes.




								


								
									302. CEUTHOPHILUS STYGIUS
										(Scudder), 1861, 9. Cave Camel-cricket.

									Form and size of gracilipes. General color the same,
										though averaging somewhat paler. Antennæ longer, in the males often four times
										or more the length of body. Fore femora from three-fourths to nearly double the
										length of pronotum. Spines on outer carina of hind femora smaller and more even
										in size than in typical gracilipes, ranging from 15 to 20 in
										number. Hind tibiæ straight, never with the slight basal sinuation usually seen
										in the larger males of gracilipes. Teeth of inner valves of
										ovipositor much more slender with sharper tips; terminal hook longer, more
										decurved. Ninth dorsal of male much less prolonged backward and upward than in
											gracilipes; subgenital with apex of lobes broadly rounded.
										The measurements of the larger adult specimens taken in Indiana average about as
										follows: Length of body, ♂, 30, ♀, 26; of antennæ, ♂, 103, ♀, 96; of pronotum,
										♂, 7.5, ♀, 6.5; of front femora, ♂, 15, ♀, 12.5; of hind femora, ♂, 26, ♀, 24;
										of hind tibiæ, ♂, 27.5, ♀, 25; of ovipositor, 16 mm. (Fig. 210.)
								

								
									Fig. 210. Female. X 1.3. The antennæ are nearly twice as long again as shown in
										cut. (Original.)
								

								In Indiana this "cave cricket" occurs abundantly in crevices in the walls and
									roof near the mouths of Wyandotte, Little Wyandotte, Sibert's Well Cave and
									Saltpetre Cave, Crawford County, and a few immature specimens have been taken in
									Porter's Cave, Owen County and Truett's and Strong's caves, Monroe County, 80
									miles farther north. In the Crawford County caves no specimens were found further
									back than 250 feet from the mouth, except in Wyandotte, where a few were taken on
									"Monument Mountain," one-half mile from the mouth. In the other caves they were
									found back beyond the reach of any rays of light. The adults of this species are
									the largest stone or camel crickets occurring in the State and seem to be more or
									less gregarious. In one instance, in Sibert's Well Cave, more than 20 were found
									in a small cranny in the wall. They were grouped in a circle, in a space about six
									inches square, with their antennæ pointing toward the center of the circle, and
									appeared to be holding a conference or cricket convention.
								In regard to the life history of this insect, but little is known.  I found a number of specimens of half grown young in
									Sibert's Cave on May 16. The adults were common in July, and in November the
									young, about one-third the size of mature specimens, were frequent in Saltpetre
									Cave, but could not be found elsewhere. The species may be represented in winter
									by the eggs as well as by the young, as is the case among some other members of
									the genus.
								In Saltpetre Cave, where in July stygius was very plentiful,
									all were found within 100 feet of the entrance. They were never seen on the floor,
									unless they leaped there when disturbed, but were found resting on the sides of
									small projections and in small cavities of the walls or roof, with their antennæ
									spread out before them. If a lighted candle was held close to them they paid no
									attention to it, but were very sensitive to its heat and to touch. When disturbed
									they leap with agility, sometimes to a distance of six feet, but with a little
									care can usually be readily picked up with the fingers before they become
									frightened.
								The immature specimens from caves in Monroe and Owen counties were darker than
									typical stygius, and were found on the floors of the caves--in
									one or two instances beneath loose rocks. From their habits I was at first
									inclined to doubt their being stygius, since it is quite
									difficult to name correctly the young of any species of Ceuthophilus. However, Packard (1888, 70) states that in
									Kentucky those living in the smaller caves are darker and less bleached than those
									in the larger ones.
								Outside of Indiana C. stygius is recorded by Packard and
									Scudder from a half dozen or more caves in Kentucky. Brunner (1888,
										309) records it from a cave at Dallas, Texas, and Morse
										(1919a) from Beverly, Mass. It doubtless occurs in most of the smaller
									caves of the northern states between New England and the Mississippi.
								Caudell (1916, 666) placed stygius as a variety of
										gracilipes, stating that the "only separating characters seem
									to be the proportional length of the legs and the armature of the hind femora,
									characters useless in this instance through variation." However the teeth of
									ovipositor are so different in shape that, taking them in connection with the
									other differences given in key and description, I retain it as distinct. It is
									found only in the immediate vicinity of or within caves while gracilipes has a wide distribution in regions where no caves exist. The
										C. sloanii
									Packard (1888, 63) is stated by Scudder to be based upon immature
									specimens of stygius.



								


								
									303. CEUTHOPHILUS TERRESTRIS
										Scudder, 1894, 46. Woodland Stone Cricket.

									Size small for the genus. Dark reddish-brown, mottled with small pale spots,
										especially on the abdomen, where the spots have a tendency to arrange themselves
										in longitudinal rows; dorsum of pronotum rarely with a median pale stripe
										bordered by darker fuscous blotches; legs paler; outer face of hind femora with
										the usual dark narrow oblique bars, the apex fuscous. Head short; vertex
										flattened vertically, ending in a blunt cone; antennæ twice as long as body.
										Fore femora one-third longer than pronotum, armed within with a single subapical
										spine. Hind femora of male shorter than hind tibiæ, rather slender, their lower
										carinæ each armed with 20 to 30 small, unequal, unevenly spaced teeth, male,
										with fewer, much smaller ones, female Supra-anal plate of male short, concave,
										its margin very broadly rounded; subgenital plate as in key and Pl. VI, h. Inner valves of ovipositor with four short, equal,,
										triangular teeth, the basal one a little more distantly spaced than the others;
										terminal hook short, curved. Length of body, ♂, 12--15, ♀, 14--15.5; of
										pronotum, ♂ and ♀, 4--4.5; of fore femora, ♂, 6--6.3, ♀, 5.7--6.5; of hind
										femora, ♂, 13--14, ♀, 12.7--15; of hind tibiæ, ♂, 14.5--15.5, ♀, 14--15; of
										ovipositor, 7--8 mm.
								

								Not known from Indiana, though it may occur in the northern counties. Scudder, in
									his original description, confused C. terrestris and neglectus (nigricans), a part of the series used as his types of
										terrestris being of the latter species as first pointed out by
										Walker (1905, 118). The locality records as given by him are
									therefore in part unreliable, but the general range is northern, extending from
									Newfoundland, New England and Nova Scotia, north and west to Nipigon, Ont.,
									Michigan and Minnesota, and south at least to the Catskill Mts and Ithaca, N.
									Y.
								Morse (1919a) says it is "a common species in cool moist woodlands
									and forests in Vermont and New Hampshire." Gooderham as taken it at Truro, N. S.
									in July and August. Hebard (1915a) has recorded it from Humber Mouth
									and other points in Newfoundland. Walker (1905, 118) mentions it from
									several places in Ontario but says it is nowhere common in that Province, though
									he found it in considerable numbers on the Isle d'Orleans, Quebec, beneath flat
									stones at the foot of a wooded hill. Rehn (1904d, 269) records the
									taking by Hebard of 19 from beneath flat stones in an old Indian graveyard at
									Keweenaw Bay, Mich. "They were good jumpers, but the majority relied on their
									protective coloration and remained motionless when the stone underneath which they
									were was turned over."

								
									304. CEUTHOPHILUS LATIBULI
										Scudder, Insect Life, VI, 1894, 313.

									Size large, form robust. Dark brownish-fuscous, thickly blotched with
										reddish-yellow ovate spots on abdomen and sides of thoracic segments. Hind
										femora dark with oblique pale markings. Fore femora one-half longer than
										pronotum, the inner lower carina of apical half with two to  four spines. Hind femora about as long as body, its upper and inner
										faces very finely and evenly scabrous; outer margin of lower sulcus wider than
										inner, armed with eight or nine unequally spaced short spines, male, unarmed,
										female; inner carina with 13 or more small teeth, male, 6 or 8, female. Hind
										tibiæ distinctly longer than femora, its marginal spines very long and sharp;
										inner and outer median apical spurs subequal, slightly longer than first tarsal
										joint. Ninth dorsal of male entire, slightly projecting at middle; supra-anal
										projected between the cerci, as a broad, feebly concave lobe, with sides
										constricted near base and apex broadly rounded; subgenital deeply cleft, its
										lobes with inner angles prolonged and projected forwards, separated by a wide
										but shallow median notch. Ovipositor with four rather stout, triangular, nearly
										equally spaced teeth, the hook short, stout, feebly decurved. Length of body, ♂
										and ♀, 17--18; of pronotum, 5--6; of antennæ, 55--60; of fore femora, 8--8.5; of
										hind femora, 18; of hind tibiæ, 19.5; of ovipositor, 10 mm.
								

								Mobile, Ala., Sept. 14 (Loding.) Scudder's types were taken by
									H. G. Hubbard from within the burrows of the gopher-turtle, Xerobates
										polyphemus (Daudin), at Crescent City, Fla. Hubbard (1894) states
									that in January he found the walls and particularly the roof of the burrow alive
									with specimens of the Ceuthophilus, it being found in all stages
									of growth and in great numbers in every burrow.
								R. & H. have recorded the species from Enterprise, Clearwater and Jupiter,
									Fla. and Bainbridge and Thomasville, Ga., their C. virgatipes
									(1904, 798) from the latter place being a synonym.

								
									305. CEUTHOPHILUS CÆCUS
										Scudder, 1894, 60.

									Size small to medium, body short, compact, robust. Above chestnut- or dark
										mahogany-brown, the thoracic segments and abdomen with numerous reddish-yellow
										spots, the former usually with a narrow pale median line; lower sides of
										thoracic segments, antennæ, fore and middle legs and under surface uniform
										reddish-yellow; hind femora with the usual oblique fuscous bars. Fastigium
										ending in a prominent subcompressed triangular spine. Hind femora as long as
										body, stout, tapering, the apical fourth subequal; outer lower carina with 8--10
										distant, unequal spines, the middle ones the longer, male, with a few small
										teeth only on apical half. female; inner carina in both sexes with a few small,
										equidistant spines. Hind tibiæ slightly longer than femora, their inner median
										apical spur subequal in length to basal joint of tarsus. Male with ninth dorsal
										very short, its middle very broadly and shallowly concave, but slightly
										projected beyond the eighth (Pl. VII, h); supra-anal
										membranous, short, broad, concave, its hind margin subtruncate or broadly
										rounded; subgenital in great part membranous, deeply cleft, the upper outer
										angle of each lobe ending in a very short, cylindrical, outward-directed
										projection (Pl. VI, i.) Ovipositor very short, the teeth of
										inner valves cylindrical, needle-like, more slender and curved than in any other
										species; terminal hook long, very slender, strongly curved (Pl. VII, s.) Length of body, ♂, 11.5--16, ♀,  10--14.5; of pronotum, ♂ and ♀, 4--5.7; of fore femora, ♂, 5--6, ♀, 4.5--7;
										of hind femora, ♂, 12.5--17.5, ♀, 11.3--14.8; of hind tibiæ, ♂, 13.5--18, ♀,
										11.7--15; of ovipositor, 4.5--6 mm.
								

								A careful study of the type of C. sallei
									Scudder (1894 63) at Cambridge and direct comparison with that of C. cæcus from Lexington, Ky., shows no material difference except
									in size. The form of the subgenital and supra-anal plate in each is the same and
									the very, distinctive teeth of the ovipositor exactly similar. 1 have, therefore,
									combined the two. Scudder separated them in his key only by the size, slightly
									different color and the relatively longer hind tibiæ of the smaller northern form
										cæcus which has page priority of name. The C.
										cæcus as such is definitely known only from the one male and two females
									taken by Garman at Lexington, Ky., June 28, and which served as Scudder's types
									and a second male in the Lexington collection taken by Garman at Hickman, Ky. C. sallei was described from New Orleans and recorded by R.
										& H. (1916, 274) from De Funiak Springs, Fla. The type of C. occultus
									Scudder (1894, 77), a female from Georgia in the Cambridge
									collection, is a nymph of his C. sallei. The two other specimens
									by its side and probably considered occultus by Scudder, are a pair of immature
										C. tenebrarum.

								
									306. CEUTHOPHILUS PENINSULARIS
										R. & H., 1914c, 408.

									This is based upon a male nymph so immature that its proper relationship
										cannot be fixed. It is colored much like latens with the
										median pale stripe of dorsum more narrow. The subgenital plate of male is deeply
										cleft, the lobes incurved at tip; supra-anal tongue-shaped and with a deep
										median lengthwise groove; infracercal plates present and black in hue.
								

								The unique type was taken near Homestead, Fla., from beneath a coquina boulder
									near the edge of pine woods. Two still smaller nymphs, named C.
										peninsularis for me by Hebard, are in my collection from Dunedin, Fla.
							
						
					

					
						Family VIII. GRYLLIDÆ. THE CRICKETS.

						
							"And crickets sing at the oven's mouth,
							As the blither for the drouth."--Shakespeare.
						

						
							"The crickets are heard in the grass, chirping from everlasting to
									everlasting."--Thoreau.
						

						The fourth family of Orthoptera belonging to the suborder Saltatoria comprises the
							Gryllidæ or crickets. From the other leaping Orthoptera they are distinguished mainly
							by the characters given in the key, page 149. They have the form usually
							subcylindrical, robust; head broad, usually perpendicular or nearly  so, the vertex closely merged with front of face; eyes
							rather small, usually oval or elliptical, widely separated; ocelli variable in size,
							form and position, sometimes wanting; antennæ usually long and filiform; pronotum
							short, broad, usually depressed above; tegmina flat above, bent abruptly downward at
							sides, usually fully developed, though (Gryllotalpinæ, Myrmecophilinæ and Nemobius) often abbreviated or even wanting; wings folded like a fan, usually
							shorter than tegmina, often very rudimentary or wholly absent; fore tibiæ variable in
							structure and usually with a hearing organ on both sides; hind femora usually much
							enlarged, though in the tree crickets (Oecanthinæ) very slender; hind tibiæ armed
							above either with numerous spines or fine teeth or both on each margin, except in the
							Gryllotalpinæ and Tridactylinæ, where only the inner margin is so armed; also armed
							near apex with two or more pairs of subapical spurs; tarsi usually three-jointed (in
							Tridactylinæ one- or two-jointed or wanting) the first joint often very long; pulvilli
							wanting; cerci very long, hairy, tapering; ovipositor as described below.
						The name Gryllidae is derived from that of the principal genus Gryllus, a Latin name for cricket. By Kirby and some of the European authors
							the family name Achetidæ is used for these insects. The family is widely distributed
							over the earth, but in this country the species are less numerous than those of either
							the Acrididæ or Tettigoniidæe.
						The tympanum or calling organ of the males of Gryllidæ, when present, is, as in the
							Tettigoniidæ, located near the base of the dorsal surface of the tegmina, but is wider
							and broader, extending across both anal and median areas of the tegmina. In the males
							of Gryllus, as Lutz (1906) has shown, the right tegmen
							almost always overlaps the left and the "file" or stridulating ridge on the under side
							of the left is therefore rarely used, yet it appears as fully developed as the other.
							Lutz changed the position of the tegmina in a freshly moulted male, placing the left
							one above, and after they had hardened the cricket "could chirp just as well as one
							whose tegmina had not been tampered with, although he was using the sound-producing
							organ which would naturally not have been used at all." More than one-third of the 742
							females of Gryllus examined by Lutz carried the left tegmen
							uppermost, and in that sex the position of the tegmina were during life frequently
							changed by the insects themselves, but were never so changed in the males.
						The chirps or love calls of the different species of crickets make  up the greater part of that ceaseless thrill which, in
							the northern states, fills the air, usually at night, from mid-July until after frost.
							These sounds are made only by the males, and are not vocal, as most persons suppose;
							but are produced by the tympanum, the insect rubbing the veins in the middle of one
							wing cover over those of the other. It is often difficult to locate one of these
							chirpers by its song. The distance and even the direction are usually most deceiving;
							the crickets being exceedingly shy, much more so than katydids and grasshoppers. Those
							which live in the ground generally chirp near the entrance to their burrows, and
							retreat thereto at every approaching footstep. Those which live upon trees or shrubs
							resemble closely the hues of bark or foliage, and are therefore difficult to find even
							when close at hand; while the majority, dwelling as they do, among grasses and beneath
							logs and chips, find also a safe protection in their color, which is usually closely
							like that of the objects beneath which they rest while sounding their cymbals.
						
							Fig. 211. Stridulating ridges in a h o u s e-cricket; s,
								stridulating ridge; st, stridulating teeth. (After Landois.)
						
						The inner wings of the crickets are, for the most part, short, weak, and
							comparatively useless as flying organs, though sometimes they are nearly twice as long
							as the outer pair. Like their nearest relatives, the grasshoppers and katydids, these
							insects, therefore, travel mostly by leaps and, in the course of time, their hind
							femora have thus become greatly enlarged.
						The ovipositor of the females of most Gryllidæ, when exposed, is usually a long,
							cylindrical spear-shaped organ, consisting apparently of two pieces. Each of these
							halves, however, when closely examined, is seen to be made up of two pieces so united
							as to form a groove on the inner side, so that when the two halves are fitted
							together, a tube is produced, down which the eggs pass to the repository in the earth
							or twig, fitted to receive them.
						The eggs of most crickets are laid singly in the ground. A few of the burrowing
							species deposit them in irregular masses in underground cavities. Some tree crickets
							place them uniformly in a single row in the pith of twigs. In Indiana and other
							northern states most species are represented in winter by the eggs alone. A few,
							however, pass the cold season as nymphs, or as adults. The mole crickets are said to
							live for several years.


						


						Among the families of Orthoptera the Gryllidæ and Tettigoniidæ take a rank superior
							to all others. As Scudder (1869b, 233) bas pointed out, the high
							specialization of the ovipositor of the female and the perfection of structure of the
							stridulating organ of the male place these two families above all others in the scale
							of Orthopteron life. That the two are very closely related can be readily seen by any
							one who will carefully compare them, organ with organ. The Gryllidæ are placed first,
							however, by most entomologists, as the great variety of form of almost any given organ
							among them, when compared with its relative uniformity of structure among the
							Tettigoniidæ, seems to indicate the higher rank of the former. Scudder adds: "I do not
							think it is without meaning that the crickets often live in company, that they sing
							both in concert and during day and night and are the closer attendants upon man. Their
							stridulating organ too is more complicated and more extensive and the pitch of their
							song is higher."
						The North American species of Gryllidæ are herein divided among eight subfamilies,
							all of which are represented in the territory covered by this work. The following key
							is largely based upon that of Saussure (1877, 185) which was used by
								Scudder (1897c, 62). The Tridactylii have been separated from the
							Gryllotalpinæ, of which they heretofore formed a group or tribe, and made a separate
							subfamily. The form of the antennæ and the one- or two-jointed tarsi are sufficient of
							themselves to justify this proceeding, without taking into account the other important
							differences. The Mogoplistii have also been raised to subfamily rank as they are very
							different both in structure and habits from the Myrmecophilinæ with which they have
							previously been placed as a tribe.

						
							KEY TO SUBFAMILIES OF NORTH AMERICAN GRYLLIDÆ.

							a. Tarsi compressed, the second joint minute, compressed.
							b. Fore tibiæ enlarged, fitted for digging; tympanum of male, when present,
								without a speculum; female without an exposed ovipositor. (Burrowing
								crickets.)
							c. Antennæ setaceous, their joints very numerous; two large ocelli present;
								size large, 18 or more mm.; body thickly clothed with short hairs; all the tarsi
								three-jointed. (Mole crickets.) I. GRYLLOTALPINÆ, p. 642.
							cc. Antennæ filiform, 11-jointed; three small ocelli present; size small,
								less than 10 mm.; body smooth, shining; fore and middle tarsi two-jointed, hind
								tarsi one-jointed or wanting. (Sand crickets.) II. TRIDACTYLINÆ, p. 654.
							bb. Fore tibiæ not enlarged; tympanum of male, when present, furnished with
								a speculum; female with well developed external ovipositor.


							


							d. Body subspherical, wingless; pronotum covering the occiput and eyes, the
								latter very small; hind femora ovate, very strongly swollen; hind tibiæ armed above
								with only a few movable spines. (Ant-loving crickets). III. MYRMECOPHILINÆ, p. 659.
							dd. Body more elongate, usually winged; occiput and eyes not covered by
								pronotum, the eyes well developed; hind femora more elongate, not exceptionally
								swollen.
							e. Hind tibiæ armed above on both margins with minute teeth, but no spines;
								body covered with translucent scales; pronotum of males usually prolonged backward;
								species wingless or males usually wih very short membranous tegmina. (Wingless bush
								crickets.) IV. MOGOPLISTINÆ, p. 662.
							ee. Hind tibiæ armed above with two rows of spines; body not covered with
								scales; pronotum not prolonged backward in either sex; tegmina always present,
								sometimes much abbreviated.
							f. Head short, vertical or nearly so; hind tibiæ rather stout, armed with
								stout spines without teeth between them; ocelli present; color black or brown.
								(Ground and field crickets.) V. GRYLLINÆ, p.
									670.
							ff. Head elongate, horizontal; hind tibiæ slender, armed with delicate
								spines (except in the genus Neoxabea) with minute teeth between
								them; ocelli absent; color white or pale green. (White tree crickets.) V1. OECANTHINÆ, p. 709.
							aa. Second tarsal joint distinct, depressed, heart-shaped.
							g. Hind tibiæ armed above with two rows of spines without teeth between them
								and with only two apical spurs on inner side; ovipositor in our species compressed
								and distinctly upcurved. (Small brown or black bush crickets.) V11.
										TRIGONIDIINÆ, p. 728.
							Hind tibiæ armed above with itwo rows of spines with small teeth
								between them, the apical spurs three on both outer and inner sides; ovipositor in
								our species subcylindrical, but little upcurved. (Larger brown bush crickets.) VIII. EINEOPTERINÆ, p. 737.
						

						
							Subfamily I. GRYLLOTALPINÆ. THE MOLE CRICKETS.

							Crickets of large size, having, in addition to characters given in key, the antennæ
								much shorter than body; eyes very small; pronotum subcylindrical, arched, prolonged
								more or less backward, its hind margin rounded; lateral lobes with lower margin
								straight or concave, oblique; tegmina somewhat triangular, usually abbreviated;
								wings often fully developed; fore femora dilated and compressed; fore tibiæ with a
								tympanum on outer face, strongly dilated, coarsely toothed; middle and hind legs
								slender, compressed; hind femora slender, scarcely saltatorial, divergent from the
								body; abdomen cylindrical, its apex obtuse, 9-jointed,  male, 7- or 8-jointed, female; subgenital plate of male large, transverse;
								ovipositor not visible. Both the two known North American genera are represented in
								our territory. The principal literature treating of them is as follows:
									Saussure, 1874, 1877; Scudder, 1869a; Blatchley,
									1892, 1903; R. & H., 1916.

							
								KEY TO EASTERN GENERA OF GRYLLOTALPINÆ.

								a. Front tibiæ with four dactyls; hind femora shorter than pronotum. I. GRYLLOTALPA.
								aa. Front tibiæ with two dactyls; hind femora usually longer than
									pronotum. II. SCAPTERISCUS.
							

							
								I. GRYLLOTALPA
									Latreille, 1802, 275. (L., "cricket" + "mole.")

								The principal characters of this genus have been given above under the subfamily
									heading and generic key. Among all our Gryllidæ these mole crickets rank first in
									size and singularity of structure. When full grown they measure from an inch and a
									fourth to an inch and a half in length, are pale brown in color and have the body
									covered with very short hairs, giving it a soft, velvety appearance. The females
									have no visible ovipositor, and, externally, may be separated from the males only
									by the difference in the veining of the uppermost of the tegmina. By their habit
									of burrowing beneath the soil in search of such food as the tender roots of
									plants, earthworms and the larvæ of various insects, the anterior tibiæ of these
									crickets have, in the course of ages, become so modified in structure as to
									closely resemble the front feet of the common mole, whence the generic name. The
									dactyls or claws of these tibiæ are four in number, the upper two, the larger,
									being movable; the others immovable. The compound eyes have, on account of the
									underground life, become much aborted, being not more than one-fourth the size of
									those of the common field crickets of the genus Gryllus. As the
									mole crickets crawl rather than leap, the hind femora are but little enlarged, and
									are always shorter than the pronotum. The hind tarsi are short, seldom exceeding
									half the width of the pronotum. The genus is widely distributed over the earth,
									three species occurring in the eastern United States.

								
									KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF GRYLLOTALPA.

									a. Hind tibiæ not spined above except at apex.
									b. Apex of hind tibiæ armed with eight spines, four long ones on inner
										face and four shorter ones on outer; front trochanters short, nearly
										semicircular, armed with spinous hairs. 307. HEXADACTYLA.75
								
								75Kirby considers the
									characters given under (b) of generic importance and has founded
									(1906, 2) for hexadactyla and allied forms the genus Neocurtilla. I prefer to retain all of our species under the old
									name Gryllotalpa.


								


								
									bb. Apex of hind tibiæ armed with seven spines, four on inner and three
										on outer side; processes of front trochanters knife-shaped, curved, acute. 308. MAJOR.
									aa. Apical half of hind tibiæ armed above on inner margin with three or
										four long spines; processes of front trochanters curved, acute. 309. GRYLLOTALPA.
								

								
									307. GRYLLOTALPA HEXADACTYLA
										Perty, 1832, 119. Common Mole Cricket.

									Size medium for the genus; form robust. Cinnamon-brown or darker, covered
										with short fine hairs of the same hue; claws and veins of tegmina darker;
										occiput and abdomen more or less blotched with fuscous. Ocelli small, ovate,
										located between the upper inner margins of the eyes. Dactyls (fingers) of the
										fore tibiæ stout, curving outward, the outer movable ones the longer. Tegmina
										covering one-half to three-fourths of abdomen; wings slightly exceeding tegmina
										in short-winged form, extending beyond tip of abdomen in long-winged form (columbia Scudder). Anal cerci nearly one-half longer than
										pronotum. Length of body, ♂ and ♀, 21--30; of pronotum, 7.5--10.5; of tegmina,
										6.5--12; of hind femora, 6--8.2; of cerci, 9.5--13 mm. (Fig. 212.)
								
								This, the G. borealis of my former work (1903, 411) and of most
									American authors, is a common insect in suitable localities throughout Indiana,
									though unknown to most of the inhabitants of the State. About one-third of those
									taken have the wings elongate, extending beyond the abdomen as shown in Fig. 212.
									On one occasion a log deeply buried in the sand on the southern shore of Lake
									Maxinkuckee was overturned and nine specimens were secured. Of these six were
									long-winged and three short-winged.

								
									Fig. 212. Long-winged male.
								

								In the moist mud and sand along the margins of the smaller streams and ponds the
									runs or burrows of this cricket, exactly like those of a mole though much smaller,
									can in late summer and early autumn be seen by those interested enough to search
									for them. The burrows are, in the main, very superficial, lying just beneath the
									surface and running in very irregular directions. They frequently fork, and often
									end beneath a stone or small stick. The insects themselves are seldom seen, as
									they are nocturnal, forming their burrows by night, and scarcely ever emerging
									from beneath the ground. Moreover, like a mole, they move backward as readily as
									forward, and so easily escape their enemies. Apparently one insect, or a single
									pair occupy these burrows; the males, though several are often heard at the same
									time, being usually at quite a distance apart.
								The burrows occasionally enlarge into side cavities large enough for the insect
									to turn around, and in such lateral chambers  the
									eggs are sometimes found in masses of 60 to 100, adhering to the rootlets of
									various plants. These eggs are spherical, white or almost colorless, and have a
									diameter of 0.7 mm. The young are active leapers, and are said to be about three
									years in reaching maturity. On July 19, 1894, a hundred or more of the half-grown
									young were captured in a small meshed seine while collecting fishes in a small
									stream in Montgomery County. They were evidently burrowing in the soft mud close
									to shore or perhaps in the mud beneath the shallow water. Just a year later a
									number of young were also taken in a seine from the waters of the outlet of Lake
									Wawasee, Kosciusko County. Since they feed, during their lives, mainly upon the
									tender roots of various plants, they are necessarily very injurious and it is
									fortunate that with us they are not more common than they are.
								The known range of this mole cricket is a very wide one extending from British
									America to the southern part of South America, Perty's types having been from
									Minas Gerzes, Brazil. R. & H. (1916, 277) first placed the G. borealis of Burmeister as a synonym of hexadactyla and as Scudder and Saussure in their keys separated the two
									only by the length of the inner wings and the form of the projection at the base
									of the second lateral dactyl of the fore tibiæ, the two names are doubtless
									synonymous. The long-winged form, columbia
									Scudder (1869a, 26) was first placed as a synonym of borealis by me in 1903. Other synonyms of hexadactyla
									are brevipennis
									Serv. (1839, 368) and longipennis
									Scudder (1862, 426).
								In Florida G. hexadactyla has been taken by me only at St.
									Augustine (at light), Ormond, Lake Okeechobee and Dunedin, though its runways have
									been noted at almost all collecting stations. Elsewhere in the State it has been
									recorded only from Leon County, where Hebard found one in a cherry tree,
									Enterprise and Lake City. About Dunedin its runways occur in numbers around the
									numerous small lakes and ponds, and on March 11, 1918, I took nine males and three
									females by digging in the muck on the margin of one of these. The specimens thus
									taken were all brachypterous and were much more sluggish in their actions than
									when uncovered in a runway. They were smaller and darker than those from Indiana
									and the terminal joints of the palpi were also distinctly paler. When first
									uncovered the smooth silken-like luster of their surface was notable. To it not a
									particle of mud, muck or water adhered. There is little doubt but that this mole
									cricket occurs in numbers in all parts of the mainland of Florida  but has to be especially sought for in its mucky
									abiding places and the records for the State are therefore few.
								Morse (1919a, 31) says that hexadactyla "probably
									occurs throughout New England but is very local and difficult to capture." I can
									find but one record from Ontario, that of Fletcher (1892) who had
									received it from Leamington and wrote an excellent account of its habits. There is
									no definite locality recorded from Michigan, though Hubbell has it from Washtenaw
									County. Bruner mentions it as not rare in the eastern half of Nebraska and McNeill
									as found about Moline, Ill. in August. The latter states (1891, 4) that it "can be
									made to eject from its cerci a grayish viscid substance which can be thrown
									several inches. The ejected mass does not have any noticeably bad odor, and if
									used to repel the attacks of enemies it is probably efficient by entangling the
									feet and covering the eyes of attacking insects." Of this habit Baumgartner
										(1910 316) says: "If one seizes a mole cricket of either sex it squirts
									from its anus a brown liquid of nauseating fetidity. This liquid is formed in part
									by excrement from the rectum and is in part the secretion of a special gland. It
									is protective in function, operating both as a repellent by its fetidity and as a
									restardant by its great viscidity or stickiness."
								The note of the male mole cricket is a sharp di-syllabic chirp, continuously
									repeated and loud enough to be heard several rods away. It is usually attributed,
									by those who have given little attention to insect sounds, to the field cricket or
									to some of the smaller frogs. The cricket is very difficult to locate by this
									note, and I have on several occasions approached cautiously, on hands and knees, a
									certain spot, and remained silent for several minutes while the chirping went on
									apparently beneath my very eyes; yet, when the supposed exact position of the
									chirper was determined and a quick movement was made to unearth him, he could not
									be found. Indeed, it is only by chance, as by the sudden turning over of a log in
									a soft mucky place, that a person can happen upon one of them unawares. Even then
									quick motion is usually necessary to capture him before he scrambles into the open
									mouth of one of the burrows which he has ever in readiness. I have heard their
									note in the forenoon of cloudy days, but it is much more common in the afternoon.
									Scudder who has set the note to scale says of it (1893 63): 
										"Our common mole cricket usually begins its daily chirp at about four o'clock
											in the afternoon, but stridulates most actively at about dusk. On a cloudy
											day, however, it may be heard as early as two or three o'clock;  this recognition of the weather is rather
											remarkable in a burrowing insect, and the more so as it does not appear to
											come to the surface to stridulate, but remains in its burrow, usually an inch
											below the surface of the ground. Its chirp is a gutteral sort of sound, like
												grii or greeu, repeated in a trill
											indefinitely, but seldom for more than two or three minutes, and often for
											less time. It is pitched at two octaves above middle C, and the notes are
											usually repeated at the rate of about 130 or 135 per minute; sometimes, when
											many are singing, as rapidly as 150 per minute. Often, when it first begins to
											chirp, it gives a single prolonged trill of more slowly repeated notes, when
											the composite character of the chirp is much more readily detected, and
											afterward is quiet for a long time. When most actively chirping, however, the
											beginning of a strain is less vigorous than its full swell, and the notes are
											then repeated at the rate of about 120 per minute; it steadily gains its
											normal velocity. It sounds not unlike a feeble distant croaking of toads at
											spawning season."
									
								

								McNeill (loc. cit.) says he has "been struck with the resemblance of the note to
									that of the tree cricket, Oecanthus niveus. To my ear the only
									discernible difference is that of pitch. The song is a simple chirp, very low in
									pitch for an Orthopteron, repeated at intervals of about a second."
								Baumgartner (loc. cit.) says that the female mole cricket has a
									partly developed chirping organ on its tegmina. With this it produces a single
									note used as a means of recognition in the dark tunnels which it inhabits; both
									this organ of sound and the protective secretion above mentioned being adaptations
									to an underground life.

								
									308. GRYLLOTALPA MAJOR
										Saussure, 1874, 343. Giant Mole Cricket.

									Size very large, form robust. Brownish-yellow; pronotum velvety brown, with
										a faint narrow median groove or oval space smooth, shining and prolonged
										backward in several lines. Tegmina abbreviated, reaching only the fourth
										abdominal segment; wings fully developed, surpassing the abdomen. Front legs
										stout, the trochanter large and of the same shape as in G.
											gryllotalpa. Hind femora more slender than in that species; hind tibiæ
										feebly enlarged at middle, armed as described in key. Claws of hind tarsi equal.
										Length of body, ♂, 41; of pronotum 13, of tegmina, 19 mm. Width of pronotum, 10
										mm.
								

								The above are the salient points of the original description, the type of which
									was from Illinois. The only published record of its occurrence elsewhere, which
									can be found, is that of Bruner (1885, 126) who mentions and briefly
									describes a specimen from Labette County, Kansas under the name of Gryllotalpa ponderosa n. sp.? Caudell (Ms.) reports that he has received
									specimens from Carthage, Mo., Louisville, Miss. and Oklahoma, and specimens in the
									Philadelphia collections are from Riley County and Manhattan, Kansas, and
									Stillwater, Okla. All students  of Orthoptera in the
									states mentioned should look for this giant mole cricket about the boggy places of
									ponds, lakes and streams.

								
									309. GRYLLOTALPA GRYLLOTALPA
										(Linnmus), 1758, 428. European Mole Cricket.

									Size large, form robust. Reddish- or brownish-yellow, tinged with fuscous
										above, pale brownish-yellow beneath. Ocelli very small, subrotund. Antennæ
										scarcely longer than pronotum. Tegmina short, pointed, covering about half the
										abdomen; wings fully developed, caudate very rarely abbreviated. Front
										trochanters produced to a point. Hind tibiæ armed as in key. Anal cerci longer
										than pronotum. Length of body, 35--40; of pronotum, 13; of tegmina, 13--19; of
										hind femora, 9--11; of anal cerci, 14.5--16 mm. (Fig. 213.)
								
								
									Fig. 213. European Mole Cricket. Male X 1.5. (After Weiss.)
								

								This large mole cricket has been introduced and become established at a few
									points in the eastern States. Single adventive specimens have been mentioned by
									several authors, Scudder (1869, 19) recording one as received in a
									collection from Vermont, but doubted its having been obtained there. Weiss
										(1915) first recorded its establishment in this country in a nursery at
									Rutherford, N. Jer., stating that the firm on whose premises they were found
									claimed to have destroyed at least 20,000, including eggs. Later he and
										Dickerson (1918) gave an extended account of its occurrence at
									Rutherford, stating that: "This infestation, which is undoubtedly of several
									years' duration, extends over several acres planted to herbaceous and ornamenal
									stock, a large number of plants being yearly imported from Europe. The soil is
									rather light and porous and contains a variety of shrubs, shadetrees, etc., such
									as one would naturally find in a nursery. No 
									preference is shown by the cricket for any particular plant, its zig-zag burrows
									being found in different parts of the area irrespective of the kinds of plants
									growing there. The insects have been numerous enough for the nursery to detail
									several men at certain periods to hunt them out and destroy as many as possible
									every few days."
								Morse (1919, 18) records three specimens as found in a local
									collection at Nantucket, Mass., where it was doubtless introduced by importations
									of European plants. Burr (1897, 67) states that in England: "It lives
									in holes in damp places, potato fields, and also in sandy places. The burrow is a
									long winding passage at the end of which is a chamber in which the female lays
									about one hundred dirty yellow eggs. It feeds on roots, etc., and animal food if
									it can get it. The stridulation of this mole cricket has been likened (by Gilbert
									White) to the churr of the nightjar, but 'more inward' as the insect churrs in its
									burrow. It is to be heard about dusk on warm spring evenings. In France they are
									very numerous, and do damage by eating the roots of grass, etc., but may be killed
									by pouring boiling water mixed with a little oil into their holes; they then come
									up to die. They may be kept in cages and fed on potatoes, turnips, meat, etc., but
									individuals should be kept separately or they will fight and mutilate each other.
									It takes about two years for this mole cricket to pass through its
									transformations; the larvæ, and perhaps the adult insects, hibernate."
								Gilbert White says of this mole cricket: "When it flies it moves curso undoso, rising and falling in waves or curves like woodpeckers. In
									different parts of England people call them fern-crickets, churr-worms and
									eve-churrs, all very apposite names. Anatomists who have examined the intestines
									of these insects, astonish me with their accounts for they say, that from the
									structure, position and number of their stomachs or maws, there seems to be good
									reason to suppose that they ruminate or chew the cud like many quadrupeds."
								The majority of the European records of this insect have been made under the name
									of Gryllotalpa vulgaris Latr., a synonym; Burr (1897,
										67) first restoring the older name of Linnaeus.
							

							
								II. SCAPTERISCUS
									Scudder, 1868c, 385. (Gr., "a little digger.")

								Medium sized burrowing crickets resembling closely the species of Gyllotalpa in general appearance but easily distinguished by having only
									two dactyls on each of the expanded fore tibiæ. 
									They differ also in having the fore trochanters much longer, the free portion
									equalling the tibial dactyls in length; hind tibiæ always armed above on inner
									margin as well as at apex; basal joint of hind tarsi ending on each side with a
									sharp spine, the inner one the longer; apical third only of the hind tarsal claws
									naked; anal cerci shorter than pronotum.
								The habits of these smaller mole crickets are much the same as those of the
									larger ones, but in tropical countries, where they are much more numerous, they
									often do extensive damage to crops. Barrett (1902) prepared a special
									bulletin on the damage done by S. didactylus (vicinus Scudd.) in
									Porto Rico, estimating the annual damage on that island at more than $100,000. All
									the species feed ou the roots, stems and leaves of living plants, especially those
									of cane, tobacco, rice and vegetables, growing in moist places. The species are
									all tropical or subtropical in range, three being recognized as occurring in our
									southern states.

								
									Fig. 214. Structures of Scapteriscus. a, Lateral outlines of
										dactyls of front tibiæ of female, X 4; d, dorsal view of
										pronotum, X 2; g, lateral outline of fore trochanter or
										spatula, X 4, all of S. vicinus; b, e, h, same of S. abbreviatus; c, i, dactyls and fore trochanter of S.
											acletus; f, lateral outline of terminal joint of hind tarsus and claws of
											abbreviatus, X 3.5; j, dorsal view of S. vicinus. (After R. & H. and Barrett.)
								

								
									KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF SCAPTERISCUS.

									a. Dactyls of front tibiæ almost or quite touching at base; pronotum
										without definite spots or figure of a distinct pattern (Fig. 214, a. d); ocelli obovate. 310. VICINUS.
									aa. Dactyls of front tibiæ separated by a distance at least equal to
										one-half their basal width; pronotum either with distinct spots or figure of a
										definite pattern (Fig. 214, b, e); ocelli rounded or
										elongate-oval.
									b. Tegmina covering only one-third of abdomen; pronotum and abdomen
										mottled with numerous large rounded pale spots; ocelli very small, subrotund.
											311. ABBREVIATUS.
									bb. Tegmina covering three-fourths of abdomen; pronotum and abdomen  not strongly mottled; ocelli larger, twice as long
										as broad. 312. ACLETUS.
								

								
									310. SCAPTERISCUS VICINUS
										Scudder, 1869a, 12. "Changa."

									Size medium for the genus; form robust. Above pale brownish-yellow or fawn,
										an irregular blotch on disk of pronotum and veins of tegmina fuscous; beneath
										pale brown. Pronotum oval, one-third longer than widb, front margin concave,
										hind one broadly rounded. Tegmina usually covering three-fourths of abdomen,
										slightly surpassing the hind femora; wings fully developed, usually surpassing
										the anal cerci. Fore trochanter oblong or subspatulate, concave beneath, its tip
										rounded. Dactyls of fore tibiæ broad at base, subparallel, narrowly separated,
										their apical halves tapering, feebly decurved, the lower one the shorter and
										stouter (Fig. 214, a.) Dactyls of fore tarsi
										elongate-triangular, subacute, the inner one much the larger. Hind femora about
										one-fourth longer than pronotum. Hind tibiæ armed above on inner margin with
										four long sharp spines and at apex with two long and one short one on inner side
										and three short ones on outer side. Third hind tarsal joint strongly compressed,
										its inner terminal claw nearly as long as the segment, the outer one one-fourth
										shorter. Anal cerci two-thirds the length of pronotum. Length of body, ♂ and ♀,
										26--29; of pronotum, 8--10.5; of tegmina, 15--20; of hind femora, 9.5--11.5; of
										cerci, 6.5--8 mm. Width of pronotum, 6.5--8.5 mm. (Fig. 214, j.)
								

								St. Simon's Island, Ga. (Hebard); Brunswick, Ga., Feb. 5-Apr. 7
										(Goodyear) ; Culebra and Guayama, Porto Rico (Pearson). This species is said by R. & H. (1916, 278) to
									occur abundantly in the southeastern United States, the West Indies and portions
									of South America. It has been usually recorded as S. didactylus
									Latr. but they state that our species is somewhat heavier with width of pronotum
									distinctly greater in proportion to its length and with the basal width between
									the tibial dactyls averaging less than in didactylus, which was
									described from Surinam and does not occur north of Costa Rica.
								No definite record of the occurrence of S. vicinus in Florida
									can be found. Scudder (1869a, 11) mentions nymphs doubtfully
									belonging to S. didactylus, as having been received from Fort
									Jefferson, Fla. Hebard (Ent. News, XX, 179) first recorded vicinus from the United States, his specimens coming from Darien,
									Ga., where they were reported to have destroyed a great portion of the grass on
									the golf grounds. It has since been found at a number of places in southern
									Georgia, and is said by R. & H. to be a serious pest in portions of that
									State. In Porto Rico, on account of its face having a fancied resemblance to that
									of a pet monkey which there goes by the name of "Chango," it is the species known
									as the "Changa." It is said by Barrett (1902) to be "by far the most
									serious insect pest" of that island. He states that: 
									
										"The young changa very seldom leaves the ground unless driven out by water,
											but the adults are frequently to be seen hurrying over the surface even in the
											daytime. The adult males frequently fly at night and are attracted to light.
											Though their flight is laborious, like that of a large beetle, and not long
											sustained, they sometimes rise to a light 20 feet or more above the ground.
											They seem to prefer dark, cloudy nights in which to make their ærial
											excursions. Whenever the soil is moist and not too hot, be it night or day,
											its work of destruction is carried on, though, of course much the greater
											amount of damage is done at night. Its habit of burrowing just beneath the
											surface in a great measure saves it from the attacks of lizards, but not
											entirely from fowls and blackbirds, that are quick to notice the slightest
											movement of the earth on top of the burrow and to recognize the cause thereof.
											These burrows, ramifying through the soil in the vicinity of food plants, are
											kept open and utilized for a considerable length of time by all the mole
											crickets frequenting that soil area. Thus it will be seen a changa can readily
											pass from the roots of one food plant to those several feet, or perhaps even
											yards, distant without emerging from the ground or making any new gallery.
										"When removed from the ground, or sometimes when surprised on the surface,
											the adult changa has the habit of feigning death. This 'possum' act may be
											prolonged several minutes. After a few minutes of intense activity directly
											after coming to a light, the changa usually strikes an attitude of meditation,
											as it were, and remains absolutely motionless for a considerable length of
											time.
										"The changa's food consists almost wholly of living plants; the stomach,
											however, is always found to contain more or less mud and sand, which is
											probably unavoidably eaten along with the roots. Portions of decaying plants
											and leaves and stems of living plants are sometimes eaten. In captivity, even
											with plenty of its normal food, the changa will eat the dead and dying
											individuals of its own kind; and we suspect that it varies its normal diet
											with an occasional earthworm, as we have kept specimens in cages on an unmixed
											diet of earthworms for a week or more."
									
								

								
									311. SCAPTERISCUS ABBREVIATUS
										Scudder, 1869a, 14. Lesser Short-winged Mole Cricket.

									Size medium; form robust. Brownish-fuscous blotched with pale yellow on
										thorax and abdomen; head blackish, maculate with yellow; veins of the tegmina
										fuscous. Ocelli minute, rounded, nearly flat. Pronotum elongate- oval, one-third
										longer than wide. Tegmina scarcely reaching middle of hind femora, wings
										rudimentary. Fore trochanters long, straight, slightly twisted at base, the
										sides parallel, tip broadly rounded; lower margin, except near apex, armed with
										numerous slender spines (Fig. 214, h.) Dactyls of fore tibiæ
										well separated at base, narrower than in vicinus, feebly
										curved, the lower one the shorter. Upper dactyl of fore tarsi distinctly longer,
										stouter and more curved than the lower. Hind femora shorter than pronotum,
										strongly compressed. Hind tibiæ with four spines on upper inner margin, these
										gradually increasing in length, the basal one the shorter; lower inner apical
										spine distinctly longer than any of the others. Inner hind tarsal claw as long
										as its supporting segment. Length of body, ♂ and ♀, 21--24; of pronotum, 10--11;
										of tegmina, ♂, 4.5--5.2, ♀, 6; of hind femora, ♂, 8, ♀, 10 mm. Width of
										pronotum, 7 mm.
								



								


								Port Tampa Fla., Feb. 7. Ybor City, Fla., Nov. 7. This is the only species of
									these lesser mole crickets definitely recorded from Florida. In addition to the
									above localities it has been taken at Lemon City, Miami, Key West and Ft. Myers by
									R. & H. or Davis. At Key West it was found on the sea beach in burrows in the
									damp sand and at Miami Hebard (1915b) "dug it out of sandy soil in a
									grape fruit grove. Individuals were found to burrow but a few inches beneath the
									surface, coming to feed beneath decaying grape fruit. Everywhere about Miami in
									sandy soil this insect, which is locally called 'cricket mole,' is said to do
									decided damage, particularly to farm truck. It is reported to have been introduced
									in this region in manure from Key West. The soft fat abdomen is in life whitish
									and distinctly paler than the hard portions of the insect." Specimens in the
									Gainesville collection are dark fuscous in general hue, the legs and scattered
									spots alone paler. This short-winged species was described from Pernambuco,
									Brazil, and is recorded only from that country, the West Indies, Southern Florida
									and White Oak, Ga.

								
									312. SCAPTERISCUS ACLETUS
										Rehn & Hebard, 1916, 279. Unwelcome Mole Cricket.

									"Size medium, form rather slender. Pinkish-buff; head with occiput
										blackish-brown; dorsum of pronotum with an oval of blackish-brown, this
										interrupted cephalad and mesad by rounded incursions from each side of
										pinkish-buff; tegmina and wings buffy with veins darker; caudal femora except
										the proximal fourth of dorso-external portion suffused with darker; abdomen dark
										above, pale below. Lateral ocelli over twice as long as broad. Tegmina similar
										to vicinus, the veins not as heavy and cross veinlets fewer;
										wings slightly surpassing apex of abdomen. Dactyls of cephalic tibiæ separated
										by a space equal to basal width of one of the dactyls. Spatula with distal half
										of ventral margin chitinous, straight, the distoventral angle nearly
										rectangulate, sharply rounded (Fig. 214, c, i.) Median tibiæ
										armed interno-distad with four heavy spurs. Caudal tibiæ with ventro-internal
										margins each bearing four long spines, the last situated slightly proximad of
										the three long distal spurs; disto-external margin with three short spurs, the
										dorsal one widely separated from the other two. Distal joint of caudal tarsus
										slender, no wider than metatarsus (Fig. 215.) Length of body, ♂, 26.4--34.4, ♀,
										26.5--35.5; of pronotum, ♂, 8.8--11.3, ♀, 8.5--10.3; of tegmina, ♂, 14.6--17.8,
										♀, 15--19.2; of caudal femora, ♂, 10--11.7, ♀, 10.2--12 mm. Width of pronotum,
										6.4--8.9 mm." (R. & H.)
								

								This species is known only from Jesup, Hebardville and White Oak, Ga. At
									Hebardville, "the type locality, it was found in great numbers in sandy soil.
									Tunnels recently made were everywhere apparent. Digging into these and the
									flooding of such areas revealed few examples, but a row of lettuce in a dying
									condition was investigated, and beneath the wilted leaves, resting on  the ground at the base of these plants, many
									specimens were found. The roots of the lettuce, tomatoes and beets were found to
									be extensively damaged by this insect, in many cases all but the main root having
									been completely devoured. When disturbed individuals always sought to escape under
									the ground, disappearing in the sandy soil with astonishing rapidity; on the
									surface they could run very nimbly, occasionally giving a short hop, but not
									attempting to fly. There is no doubt, however, but that both this species and vicinus can fly vigorously and during migrations, which
									undoubtedly occur, probably resort almost wholly to this method of locomotion. At
									night the rich gutteral "grrrr" of the cricket could be heard on
									all sides, but no individuals were found on the exposed surface of the ground."
										(R. & H.)
							
						
						
							Fig. 215. Dorsal view of male type, X 1.5. (After R. & H.)
						

						
							Subfamily II. TRIDACTYLINÆ. T>HE SAND OR PYGMY MOLE CRICKETS.

							Burrowing crickets of very small size, having the body smooth, shining; ocelli
								three, very small; antennæ 11-jointed,76 widely separated at base, differing from those of all
								our other Gryllidæ in being submoniliform, the segments distinct and similar to
								those of many Coleoptera; pronotum short, covering but little of the head, not
								prolonged backward; tegmina of male without a tympanum; front tibiæ without a
								hearing organ; hind femora much swollen, strongly saltatorial; tarsi of front and
								middle legs in our genera two-jointed, of hind ones one-jointed or wanting; abdomen
								ending in four slender, tapering, bristly appendages, the lower pair styliform.
							The above characterization shows clearly the important differences between these
								pygmy mole crickets and their larger cousins the Gryllotalpinæ. In any other group
								of insects such a combination of different characters would be deemed sufficient for
								family ranking and I have no hesitancy, therefore, in raising them to subfamily
								standing. Two of the three known genera occur in our eastern states. The principal
								literature pertaining to 76Saussure (1877, 210) says there are only ten joints but in
									both our American genera there are eleven.
								 them is as follows: Saussure, 1874, 347-361,
									1877, 210-225, 1897; Scudder, 1902; Blatchley, 1892,
									1903; Morse, 1901a; R & H., 1916.

							
								KEY TO EASTERN GENERA OF TRIDACTYLINÆ.

								a. Species more than 5.5 mm. in length; pronotum with a weak transverse
									sulcus; hind tibiæ with four pairs of long slender plates used in swimming; hind
									tarsi one-jointed. I. TRIDACTYLUS.
								aa. Species less than 5.5 mm. in length; pronotum with no transverse
									sulcus; hind tibiæ with a single pair of short plates used in swimming; hind tarsi
									wholly wanting. II. ELLIPES.
							

							
								I. TRIDACTYLUS
									Olivier, 1789, 26 (Gr., "three" + "finger.")

								These little sand crickets are among the smallest of the Gryllidæ. The principal
									characters of the genus are given above under the subfamily heading. In addition
									they have the head subconical; ocelli rounded, arranged in a transverse row, the
									lateral ones very close to the lower inner margin of the eyes; labial palpi short,
									robust, the terminal joint club-shaped; pronotum short, somewhat shield-shaped,
									convex above, sides sloping, front margin truncate, hind one broadly rounded and
									meeting in a sharp angle the oblique lateral or lower one; tegmina corneous,
									usually abbreviate, reaching middle of hind femora; wings translucent, fully
									developed, slightly surpassing the abdomen; legs strongly compressed, front pair
									very short, their tibiæ usually broad, thin, four-fingered, concave within to
									receive the very slender two-jointed tarsi; middle legs very slender, their tarsi
									two-jointed and, like the fore ones, ending in a pair of long curved claws; hind
									tibiæ with apical half bearing four pairs of long, slender "natatory lamellæ,"
									preceded by slight serrations, also armed at tip on each side with two very
									unequal spurs. Abdomen slender, last dorsal segment large, deeply cleft; cerci
									slender, tapering, bristly, two-jointed; beneath them a pair of slightly shorter,
									equally slender bristly one-jointed appendages.
								Ten species of Tridactylus have been described from North
									America. Scudder (1902) reduced these to three and founded for one of
									them the genus Ellipes. R. & H. (1916, 283)
									combined the two left by Scudder so that we have remaining only the one species
									described by Say. Those reductions and combinations were largely due to the paper
									of Morse (1901a) who showed that the fore tibiæ of the males vary
									exceedingly in form, being usually more "or less irregularly ovate in outline and
									terminating apically in four prominent equidistant teeth, with the convex outer
									face thickly set with hairs, * * * the tarsus being inserted  between the first and second teeth and lying on the anterior face."
									From this normal form it varies in progressive degree to a remarkably bifurcate
									organ in which the inner limb is elongated and devoid of hairs, the innermost
									tooth nearly disappears, the second is greatly prolonged into a claw-like organ,
									while the femur acquires tooth-like projections on its upper, inner ventral angle
									and becomes greatly enlarged.
								"These sand crickets," says Scudder, "are in general appearance, miniature
									Gryllotalpas, though, not being heavy bodied, they can leap vigorously, bounding
									high in the air. Nothing is more curious than these lively and pygmy
									mole-crickets; they live in similar places, and make burrows like the
									mole-crickets, but their forelegs, though constructed for burrowing, are very
									different in detail. They are not, however; found in quite such wet spots as the
									mole-cricket haunts, preferring the sandy margins of ponds rather than muddy ones.
									Their burrows are at first vertical, but immediately turn, running not more than
									an inch below the surface of the ground, and are very narrow, as would be expected
									of such little creatures; one measured was hardly a twentieth of an inch in
									diameter. The males are not provided with any tambourine upon the wings, and
									therefore can not sing."

								
									313. TRIDACTYLUS APICALIS77
										Say, 1825, 310. Larger Sand Cricket.

									Color variable, usually black or dark brown; occiput and thorax with pale
										markings; tegmina with dorsal area and a spot behind middle yellowish; fore legs
										dull yellow; hind femora dull yellow with upper half of outer face brownish or
										with three dark cross-bars. Disk of pronotum with apical fourth constricted and
										a faint median groove. Tegmina with tips broadly rounded. Other characters as
										given above. Length of body, 6--9.5; of pronotum, 2--3; of tegmina, 3--3.3; of
										wings, 7.5--8.5; of hind femora, 3.5--5 mm. (Fig. 216.)
								

								This sand cricket appears to be common locally in southern Indiana, but has been
									noted only in Lake County in the north. It occurs mainly along the sand bars of
									the larger streams. In Owen County it has been seen by hundreds in August and
									September on the damp bars along White River, often in company with Ellipes minuta, while in Putnam and Vigo counties adults have been taken
									in early June. It occupies small pits or burrows in the sand, and may sometimes be
									seen resting with the head, and half the body, outside the opening of the pit,
									into which it backs as one draws near. When out at a distance from any convenient
									pit, it leaps vigorously when approached, often to 77Say's first spelling of this name was
											apicialis, a word without meaning and an evident error,
										which was corrected by Burmeister (1838, 741.)
									 a height of five feet and a distance twice as
									great. By close search it will probably be found to occur along the damp sand bars
									of the lakes and streams of northern Indiana.
								The known range of T. apicalis is a very wide one, extending
									from southern New England, Ithaca, N. Y. and near Toronto, Ontario west to
									Minnesota and south and southwest, according to Scudder (1902), to
									Georgia, Louisiana, Texas, Southern California, Mexico, Ecuador and South America.
									The only Florida record which can be found is that of the type locality of Say
									(loc. cit.), who states that it is "numerous on St. John's River in East Florida,
									and on the Missouri as far as Council Bluff."
								
									Fig. 216. Tridactylus apicalis Say. (After Lugger.)
								
								Saussure (1874, 352) was the first to suggest that the T. terminalis
									Scudder (1862, 425) "is probably only a northern variety of T. apicalis in which the organs of flight have not arrived at
									their full development." Later he evidently considered terminalis as only a synonym as he does not mention it in his revision
									(1897a).
								In Ontario Walker (1904, 144) first found two specimens of apicalis near the Humber River and later in numbers along a small
									stream near York Mills. This is its most northern record. Lugger (1898,
										259) mentions a single specimen as having been taken near Ft. Snelling,
									Minn.
								Thomas (1865, 442) says that in Illinois his T.
										illinoiensis, a synonym of apicalis, is abundant
									throughout the State, "living in the soft sandy banks of branches close to the
									water. Here their little holes may often be seen in great numbers, from which
									individuals of all ages will emerge if the earth is forcibly pressed. While
									walking along the banks of the river I have seen them by hundreds leap on to the
									water along which they float for an instant and then spring back on the bank. They
									have a singular enemy in the bug, Galgulus oculatus Fab., which,
									being of a mud color and lying flat close to the ground, moves slowly along and,
									when close to its victim, with a sudden upward and forward leap it grasps the
									unsuspecting cricket with its fore legs and plunges its beak into it."
								On Staten Island, N. Y. Davis (1891) found apicalis "not uncommon at Watchouge in damp places. Their small size and
									marvelous agility made them most entertaining insects to capture. The power of
									leaping is so great that they seem to disappear quite  mysteriously, and one wonders which way they have gone, it being seldom that
									their departure can be accurately followed by the eye."
								In addition to T. terminalis, the following species of Tridactylus described from the United States are now considered
									synonyms of T. apicalis: T. tibialis
									Guer. (1844, 336), mixtus
									Hald. (1853, 364), illinoiensis
									Thomas (1863, 104), fissipes
									Sauss. (1874, 352) and incertus
									Sauss. (1897, 418.)
							

							
								II. ELLIPES
									Scudder, 1902, 309. (Gr., "omitted" + "foot.")

								The principal distinguishing characters of this genus are given in the key. They
									have the pronotum short, not constricted near apex; fore tibiæ of males simple
									like those of females, never cleft; hind tibiæ with margine of upper basal half
									smooth, armed at tip on each side with two very unequal calcaria, the longest half
									the length of the tibia. But one species is known.

								
									314. ELLIPES MINUTA
										(Scudder), 1862, 425. Smaller Sand Cricket.

									Blackish or fuscous-brown; head and pronotum mottled with paler, the lower
										margins of latter broadly pale; all the femora and middle tibiæ with pale
										cross-bars; hind tibiæ dusky. Tegmina short, covering less than half the
										abdomen; wings variable, sometimes twice as long, usually slightly surpassing
										the abdomen. Length of body, 4--5; of pronotum, 1.5--2; of hind femora, 3--3.5
										mm.
								

								This small sand cricket occurs throughout Indiana, frequenting damp sandy places
									which are sparsely covered with grass or other vegetation, where it is often found
									in company with the grouse locusts or with the larger sand cricket, Tridactylus apicalis Say. While more active in its movements it does not
									leap as high nor as far as that species. The best way to capture them, after
									discovering a colony, is to use a sweep net rapidly just above the ground. The
									pair of minute subapical swimming plates of hind tibiæ are sometimes wanting, and
									rarely there are two on the outer margin. The long apical so-called "calcaria" are
									finely fringed above. They are not, therefore, spurs in the true sense and are
									doubtless used as swimming organs.
								In Florida this is also a common insect and has been taken by me at all
									collecting stations except Cape Sable and Key West. There, as elsewhere, it is
									more abundant about ponds and lakes than along the flowing streams, and has been
									recorded by other collectors from numerous localities on the mainland, but not as
									yet from the southern keys.
								The known range of E. minuta is a wide one, extending from
									Ocean City, N. J. and Stafford County, Va., west to Minnesota  and south and west to Mississippi, Texas, Southern California, Cuba
									and Mexico. It is not known from New England nor from Canada. For an insect of so
									wide a range definite records of E. minuta are very few. Kostir
									mentions it as occurring at Columbus, Cedar Point and Sugar Grove, Ohio. No
									locality has been recorded for Michigan, though it doubtless occurs in the State.
									Lugger does not record it from Minnesota though Scudder says he does. Bruner
									states that it or T. mixtus Hald. occurs in the south half of
									Nebraska. McNeill records it from Champaign, Ill. without other mention. R.
										& H. (1916, 284) give a number of records from Virginia south to
									Georgia, and state that it is found on wet sand near water, often in great numbers
									over the entire region of the southeastern United States.
								The T. histrio and T. histrionicus, described
									by Saussure from Central America, Texas and Cuba, are placed by Scudder
										(1902) as synonyms of E. minuta.
							
						

						
							Subfamily III. MYRMECOPHILINÆ. THE ANT-LOVING CRICKETS.

							As here restricted this subfamily comprises very small, subspherical wingless
								crickets having the ocelli absent; face much narrowed by the very large antennal
								pits; pronotum in both sexes of much the same form but longer than meso- and
								metanotum, its lateral lobes very short; fore tibiæ without a hearing organ; hind
								femora ovate, compressed, very greatly enlarged; hind tibiæ armed above on inner
								margin with three or four long movable spines; basal joint of hind tarsi distinctly
								longer and stouter than the other two.

							The subfamily is represented by the single genus:

							
								I. MYRMECOPHILA
									Latreille, 1829, 183. (Gr., "ant" + "to love.")

								Form ovate, very convex; head almost hidden beneath the pronotum; vertex rounded,
									strongly declivent; eyes small, situated above the very large antennal fossæ and
									usually in great part concealed by the pronotum; antennæ stout, about as long as
									body. setaceous, their basal joint very large, compressed, the others very short,
									exceedingly numerous; pronotum slightly wider behind than in front, its fore and
									hind margins subtruncate; meso- and metanotum similar in form to segments of
									abdomen, sometimes slightly wider; fore and middle legs slender; hind tibiæ
									shorter than the femora, compressed, lower margin curved, upper one ciliate, its
									inner carina with three long movable spines, outer carina with one, apex with two
									pairs of slender spurs, the upper  pair the longer;
									anal cerci long, cylindrical, tapering, very bristly. Male with subgenital plate
									boat-shaped, its apex rounded, feebly upcurved, deeply cleft. Ovipositor short,
									rather stout, straight.
								The species of Myrmecophila are among the smallest of
									Orthoptera, and occur in all parts of the earth. They are always found either in
									company with ants or on the ground beneath cover where ants are very likely to
									occur. The principal literature treating of our American forms is as follows:
										Bruner, 1884; Scudder, 1899d; Wheeler,
										1900; Blatchley, 1903; Schimmer, 1909.
								Wheeler (1900) has given an interesting account of the habits of one
									of these little crickets from which I quote at length as follows : 
										"In the present paper I wish to call attention to the peculiar habits of Myrmecophila nebrascensis Bruner which is very common in the
											vicinity of Austin, Texas, where it may be found in the nests of no less than
											five very different species of ants. My observations on the habits of this Myrmecophila began early in March. The little crickets were
											taken from the Formica or red ants' nests and placed in artificial nests of
											the agricultural ant, an insect of much larger size, slower movements and in
											many other respects more satisfactory for purposes of observation than the
											Formica.
										
											Fig. 217. Myrmecophila nebrascensis Brun. (After
												Lugger.)
										
										"On April 3d I placed in the artificial nest twenty Myrmecophilas, eight or
											ten of which had been squeezed or had lost one or both saltatory legs during
											capture. All the disabled individuals were at once seized and dispatched in so
											vindictive a manner, that I could not doubt that the ants were irritated by
											the pungent red ant nest-odor still clinging to the crickets. In an instant
											all the ants in the compartment of the nest had gathered in little groups,
											each devouring a Myrmecophila. The uninjured crickets made not the slightest
											attempt to escape, but felt themselves perfectly at home as soon as they set
											foot on the floor of the nest. Their adaptation to a new nest and to an ant of
											a larger size and belonging to an entirely different sub-family from their
											former host, was immediate and complete. With constantly vibrating antennæ
											they began dodging in and out among the little groups of assembled ants. From
											time to time one of them would be seen cautiously approaching an ant, that was
											busy with its dinner of Myrmecophila, and fall to nibbling at its legs or the
											tip of its abdomen. There could be no doubt that the cricket derived some
											benefit from the oily secretion covering the surface of the ant's body. At
											first the ant disregarded this nibbling, which probably resembles the
											attentions of the toilet habitually received from sister ants, but the
											cricket's scraping mandibles and maxillæ soon grew annoying and the ant would
											either move away or turn its head, open its mandibles and make a lunge at the
											Myrmecophila like a large dog annoyed by a puppy But before the huge mandibles
												 had closed, the cricket was far away, already
											nibbling at the abdomen of some other ant. The cricket can get at only the
											legs and abdomen of its host, since the spreading legs prevent it from
											reaching the thorax. It often stands on its hind legs, and places its forelegs
											on the ant's leg, in order to reach the femur or tibia. For very obvious
											reasons, it avoids nibbling at or even approaching the ant's head. It is
											always alert, as if perpetually aware of danger and ready to dodge at the
											slightest movement made by the ant.
										"Occasionally in the narrow confines of an artificial nest the ants do
											succeed in capturing and devouring one of their vigilant little guests, but
											the fact that of the eleven sound crickets left after the above observation
											was made, eight were still alive June 22d, when I had to discontinue my
											observations for the summer, shows that the crickets are extremely expert in
											keeping out of danger. The attitude of the ants during all this time underwent
											no change as far as I could observe, for they would still occasionally make
											lunges at the crickets.
										"The crickets do not derive all their substance from cleansing their hosts.
											In earthen nests they are often seen haunting even the galleries that have
											been abandoned by the ants, scrutinizing the walls and nibbling at them from
											time to time. There can be no doubt that they find here the same substance
											which covers the ants, for the walls of the galleries of a populous nest soon
											become greasy from the attrition of the constantly passing ants. Sometimes the
											crickets may be seen nibbling at dead ants that have been temporarily
											abandoned in the galleries or placed on the kitchen-midden of the nest. The
											intestine of a Myrmecophila which I dissected was found to contain
											oil-globules and a granular whitish substance."
									
								

								Kirby (1906, 53) recognized 15 species of these little crickets. Of
									these but one occurs in all Europe, where it is very widely distributed, while
									five nominal species have been described from the United States. But one of these
									is known east of the Mississippi.

								
									315. MYRMECOPHILA PERGANDEI
										Bruner, 1884, 42.

									Broad oval, depressed, nearly twice as long as broad; very thinly clothed
										with exceedingly short, subprostrate yellowish bristles. Dark reddish-brown;
										front and hind margins of pronotum, hind margins of the other dorsal segments
										and apex of ovipositor piceous-brown; legs, cerci and base of antennæ and
										ovipositor paler brown, extreme front margin of pronotum yellowish. Pronotum
										about twice as long as either the meso- or metanotum, the front margin about
										one-fourth narrower than hind one; meso- and metanotum subequal, longer than the
										succeeding dorsal segments, which are equal in length. Hind femora pyriform,
										more curved below than above, less than twice as long as broad. Outer hind tibal
										spurs more than half as long as tarsi. Cerci about as long as hind femora.
										Length of body, ♂, 3--4.3, ♀, 4--5; of hind femora, ♂, 2.5, ♀, 3; of ovipositor,
										2.5 mm.
								

								Southern half of Indiana, April 26--Sept. 6; Dunedin, Fla., Dec. 3--March 24 (W. S. B.)
								This small ant-loving cricket was first taken in Indiana near New Harmony, Posey
									County, on April 26, 1901. It was afterward  found
									to be rather common in the region thereabouts as well as in Knox, Perry, Dubois,
									Crawford, Orange and Lawrence counties; the northernmost point at which it has
									been observed being near Mitchell, Lawrence County. Since its known general range
									is southern it probably does not occur in the northern half of the State. With us
									it is found in company with a half dozen species of ants, the most common of which
									is a rather large yellowish-red form, Camponotus melleus Say.
									The cricket seems to be always on the move, and when disturbed leaps with great
									agility. Those taken in Crawford County in September were almost double the size
									of those noted in the spring and probably more accurately represent the mature
									insect.
								At Dunedin four specimens have been taken, each singly beneath half buried logs,
									two of them without an ant beneath the logs where they were found. One of them had
									only one hind leg, yet leaped a foot in height and a distance of 18 inches several
									times when first uncovered. Dunedin is the most southern station known for M. pergandei and it is elsewhere known in Florida only from
									Crescent City, a single nymph from there being in the Philadelphia collection.
								This was the first of these little crickets described from North America,
									Bruner's types being from the "Atlantic States from Maryland southward." Its known
									range now extends from Washington, D. C. west to southern Indiana and south and
									west to Clayton, Ga. and Dunedin, Fla. In Ohio it has been taken by Dury near
									Cincinnati. The other four species of United States Myrmecophila are separated by
										Scudder (1899d, 425) only by minor characters of size and color,
									and it is very probable that two or three of them will prove to be but synonyms or
									varieties. Bruner in his original description of pergandei
									stated that the characteristic feature of that species is "the two light colored
									elliptical markings upon the disk of the pronotum," but these are not found in any
									of the Indiana or Florida specimens at hand.
							
						

						
							Subfamily IV. MOGOPLISTINÆ. THE WINGLESS BUSH CRICKETS.

							Small slender-bodied depressed wingless or subapterous Gryllids, thinly clothed
								with translucent, easily abraded scales and having the head short, depressed; vertex
								truncate in front; upper portion of face strongly swollen, protuberant between the
								antennæ, separated from vertex by a transverse sulcus; ocelli very small or absent;
								eyes well developed not covered by pronotum; palpi variable in length and form of
								segments; pronotum of males  usually produced backward
								into a rounded lobe, its lateral lobes elongate, very narrow; tegmina absent in
								females, usually abbreviated, membranous and furnished with tympanum in males; hind
								femora moderately swollen; hind tibiæ serrulate above on both margins, without true
								spines and with three pairs of subapical spurs; basal joint of hind tarsi with two
								curved subapical spurs; ovipositor straight, sublanceolate.
							This subfamily has been previously placed as a group or tribe of the
								Myrmecophilinæ, but the differences in structural characters are so great and the
								habits so different that I here raise it to subfamily rank. The species are mostly
								tropical or sub-tropical in distribution and occur for the most part on bushes or
								beneath debris in sandy localities near water. The principal literature treating of
								the American species of the subfamily is that of Scudder, 1868b, 1897f;
									Saussure, 1874, 422-427, 1877, 461-477; Bruner, 1891;
									Redtenbacher, 1892; R. & H., 1905, 1912a.
							R. & H. in their revision (1912a) recognized 11 genera of their group
								Mogoplistii, five of which they state to be represented in the United States or
								Mexico and three in the territory covered by this work. Anyone who compares their
								characterizations given on pages 193 and 208 of the two genera Cryptoptilum and Cycloptilum, will find them word for word
								exactly the same with the exception that in the proposed new genus Cryptoptilum the tegmina are said to be "concealed by pronotum in male,"
								whereas in Cycloptilum they are mentioned as "projecting beyond
								pronotum in male." This and "size small" and "very small" are also the sole
								characters used in the separation of the two genera in their key, p. 188. As the
								representatives of the two nominal genera at hand show no other structural
								differences of generic value whatever, and as wing length in Orthoptera is no longer
								regarded as of even specific value,78 I have placed all the species under the older name Cycloptilum Scudd. If the projecting tegmina is a character of generic
								importance in this group, it should also be used in Atlanticus,
								and A. gibbosus and dorsalis be separated from
								the other species under a new generic name. Banks (1906) has well said:
								"If the characters which distinguish genera are of less value or are less constant
								than the characters that separate the species, such genera are worthless. They mean
								nothing. They are of no value to science. Why then accept them?"
							78As proof of this I need
								only quote R. & H. (1915c, 294) as follows: "The work of Lutz has
								already demonstrated the error of using length of tegmina, wings and ovipositor as
								characters of specific importance in the genus Gryllus. The mass
								of evidence upon these features in Lutz's paper is absolutely convincing; from
								studies of other genera we have found such characters to be of minor importance
								generally throughout the Orthoptera."



							


							
								KEY TO EASTERN GENERA OF MOGOPLISTINÆ.

								a. Facial protuberance between the antennæ very convex and with a distinct
									but shallow median vertical groove; pronotum of male distinctly widening from apex
									backward and prolonged behind in the form of a rounded lobe; tegmina present in
									male but often wholly concealed; fore tibiæ with a tympanum on outer face. I. CYCLOPTILUM.
								aa. Interantennal protuberance subdepressed, without a vertical groove;
									pronotum of male not or very feebly widened backward, its hind margin truncate;
									tegmina and wings absent in both sexes; fore tibiæ without a tympanum on outer
									face. II. OLIGACANTHOPUS.
							

							
								I. CYCLOPTILUM
									Scudder, 1868b, 142. (Gr., "circle" + "wing.")

								In addition to the characters above given the members of this genus have the head
									very small; antennæ very long and slender, widely separated at base, first joint
									large, the others much smaller, subequal; pronotum about half the length of body,
									male, shorter and subquadrate, female; tegmina of male either projecting beyond
									pronotum or wholly hidden, the tips of the dorsal field strongly curved and
									lateral field well developed; abdomen depressed nearly equally broad throughout,
									slightly tapering at apex; hind femora much dilated, more than twice as long as
									broad; hind tibiæ with three pairs of apical spurs, the upper inner ones shorter
									than the lower ones; basal joint of hind tarsi sulcate above, serrate on both
										margins,79 ending in an
									apical spur each side; anal cerci tapering, more than half as long as abdomen.
									Ovipositor straight, variable in length, its apex not serrulate beneath.

								
									KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF CYCLOPTILUM.

									a. Pronotum of male short and broad, its length about one-fourth more
										than its greatest breadth, its hind margin almost semicircular; ovipositor
										short, not over 3.5 mm. in length.  316. SQUAMOSUM.
									aa. Pronotum of male longer, less broad proportionally, its length
										nearly one-half more than its greatest breadth, its hind margin less broadly,
										rounded and basal third less flattened; ovipositor longer, 4.5 or more
										mm.
									b. Terminal joint of maxillary palpi moderately elongate, widening
										feebly from base to apex, but slightly obliquely truncate. 317.
												ANTILLARUM.

									
										Fig. 218. Maxillary palpi of Cycloptilum, a, of C. antillarum; b, of trigonipalpum, greatly
											enlarged. (After R. & H.)
									

									bb. Terminal joint of maxillary palpi shorter, strongly widening from
										base to apex, very obliquely truncate (Fig. 218, b.) 318. TRIGONIPALPUM.
								
								79Scudder in his key
									(1897c, 64) says: "First joint of hind tarsi neither sulcate nor serrate," but an
									examination of the generic type, C. squamosum, by Davis showed
									he was mistaken.


								


								
									316. CYCLOPTILUM SQUAMOSUM
										Scudder, 1868b, 142. Scaly Bush Cricket.

									Size small for the genus. Body elongate-oval, thinly clothed with silvery or
										yellowish scales; head and pronotum reddish-yellow, often with a postocular
										stripe of darker scales, extending as a narrow line along the upper edge of
										lateral lobes; legs, antennæ and mouth parts paler yellow; dorsal surface of
										abdomen, except at base, fuscous-black, under surface dusky. Terminal joint of
										maxillary palpi one-third longer than the one preceding, its tip obliquely
										truncate. Male with disk of pronotum distinctly broadening from apex to base,
										its apical half rounded into the sides; posterior lobe strongly flattened,
										longer than the narrow lateral lobes. Tegmina with exposed portion as wide as
										abdomen, varying in length from .5 to 1.3 mm., its sides embracing those of
										abdomen. Subgenital plate short, scoop-shaped, its apex entire. Female with
										pronotum subquadrate, slightly narrower in front; tegmina absent; ovipositor
										about one-third shorter than hind femora, slightly curved upward at base. Other
										structural characters as above given. Length of body, ♂, 5.4--7.5, ♀, 6-7.2; of
										pronotum, ♂, 3--3.4, ♀, 2--2.2; of hind femora, ♂, 3.5--4.1, ♀, 3.7--4.4; of
										ovipositor, 3--3.6 mm. Greatest width of pronotum, ♂, 2.6--2.9, ♀, 1.9--2.1 mm.
										(Fig. 219.)
								

								Dunedin, Fla. (W. S. B.) ; Carrizo Springs, Texas (Hebard). Only one adult male and several female nymphs have been taken
									about Dunedin. The former was found December 17 while sifting rubbish for beetles.
									Elsewhere in the State it has been taken by others at Atlantic Beach, San Pablo,
									Live Oak, Gainesville and Lakeland, mostly under boards or on grass or weeds.

								
									Fig. 219. Male. Dorsal view of type, X 4. (After R. & H.)
								

								The unique male type of Scudder was from Texas and the known range of C. squamosum extends from Long Island, N. Y. southward along the
									coast to Dunedin, Fla.; westward across Texas and Arizona to the Mojave Desert,
									Cal., and in the middle west north to northern Colorado, central Nebraska and
									southern Illinois, three specimens being in the Urbana, Ill. collection taken by
									Hart and Shiga at Metropolis on the Ohio River in that State. It occurs in both
									moist and dry situations and ranges from sea level to 3,600 feet in elevation. At
									Cottonwood, Cal. R. & H. (1912a, 212) found it "common under
									creosote bushes (Covillea), where among the collected refuse the
									males were heard shrilly stridulating at dusk and later. The sound produced was an
									incessant and high-pitched zeeee-zeeee-zeeee." Along the
									Atlantic coast they "have found it under boards and other debris on the ground,
									usually along the edge of or in forest growth, and almost always in very small
									numbers. However, at St. Simon's Island, Ga., myriads  were found jumping about among the dead leaves and low plants and grasses
									growing on the sandy soil under live oaks."
								At Lakehurst, N. J. Davis (1909a) found C.
										squamosum in October in the pine woods, and likens its song to a low
									sounding chink, chink, chink. He later (1914a) took well grown
									nymphs at East Marion, Long Island on Aug. 2.
								The Cycloptilus borealis
									Bruner (1891, 37) is a synonym of C. squamosum and
									the latter has also been recorded from Florida by R. & H. (1907,
										316) as Liphoplus krugii Sauss.

								
									316a. CYCLOPTILUM SQUAMOSUM ZEBRA
										(Rehn & Hebard), 1905, 49.

									Distinguished from C. squamosum "by its smaller size,
										relatively more regularly convex dorsal surface of male pronotum, which is less
										expanded caudad and much shorter. In the female the pronotum is very small and
										narrows somewhat more cephalad. Proportionally the limbs are shorter and the
										caudal femora more flea-like. Scaly covering silvery, usually with limbs barred
										and body spotted and mottled with dark brown scales (Fig. 220.) Length of body,
										♂ and ♀, 4.9--5.5; of pronotum, ♂, 2.4--2.9; ♀, 1.5--1.7; of hind femora, ♂ and
										♀, 3.1--3.7; of ovipositor, 2.7--2.9 mm." (R. & H.
											1912a, 215.)
								
								
									Fig. 220. Male. Dorsal view of type, X 4. (After R. & H.)
								

								Miami, Fla. (Davis) ; Long Key, Fla., Mch. 13 (Hebard.) The differences between this form and typical squamosum are so slight that they cannot be set forth in a key. I regard
									it as only a depauperate southern race of Scudder's species. Its known
									distribution is confined to southern Florida, where it has been taken from Lake
									Worth southward to Key West. R. & H. (loc. cit.) state that "the
									entire territory over which this species is known has much of its surface composed
									of rough coquina rock which is very white. The species is wholly terrestrial and
									its coloration (as given above) so imitates the surface of the coquina that the
									little insects are practically invisible when at rest. * * * Nearly all the
									specimens taken have been found hiding under the coquina boulders on or near the
									strand. When first exposed they usually remain motionless and closely pressed to
									the surface of the rock; when disturbed, however, they spring about wildly and are
									hard to follow with the eye." They state (1914c) that "the song is a faint krik--krik--krik--krik, suggesting that of a species of Nemobius but much fainter." Davis (1914) mentions the
									taking of 13 specimens on Sept. 23 from under and in the folds of an old pair of
									trousers lying on the up-beach at Ocean Beach, Miami.


								


								
									317. CYCLOPTILUM ANTILLARUM
										(Redtenbacher), 1892, 218. Antillean Bush Cricket.

									Size large for the genus; form rather slender. Reddish-brown, thinly clothed
										with silvery scales; lateral lobes of pronotum, legs and under surface except
										abdomen paler; outer and upper faces of hind femora often dusky; abdomen in
										great part dull black. Interantennal space prominent, rounded and with a narrow
										and shallow but distinct median sulcus. Eyes ovoid-triangular, set obliquely
										behind the antennæ. Male with pronotum as described in key; tegmina wholly
										concealed; anal cerci as long as abdomen; apex of subgenital plate broadly
										rounded, entire. Female with disk of pronotum distinctly longer than broad, its
										sides nearly parallel; tegmina invisible, apex of subgenital plate narrowly,
										acutely emarginate; ovipositor but little shorter than hind femora, straight,
										its apex sublanceolate. Length of body, ♂, 6.7--9, ♀, 6.5--9.3; of pronotum, ♂,
										3.8--4.2; ♀, 2--2.7; of hind femora, ♂, 4.1--5.5, ♀, 5--6.2; of ovipositor,
										4--5.6 mm. (Fig. 221.)
								

								
									Fig. 221. Dorsal view of male, X 4. (After R. & H.)
								

								Lake Okeechobee, La Belle, Cape Sable, Key West and Dunedin, Fla., Jan. 29--Mch.
									7 (W. S B.) About Dunedin this bush cricket is in winter much
									less common than the next, my only adult male having been, taken Jan. 29 by
									beating mangrove on Hog Island. At Cape Sable and Key West it was taken in numbers
									by beating mangrove and other shrubs. It is, in the main, a submaritime species
									and has been recorded from numerous stations in Florida between Jacksonville and
									Key West. On the southern keys it is especially common on the dahoon holly, Ilex cassine L.
								This species was originally described from St. Vincent's Island and is known from
									the Bermudas, Bahamas and Cuba. In the United States it inhabits the southern
									portion of the Lower Austral zone from Beaufort, N. Car. as far west as Brazos
									County, Texas. Over this range it is said by R. & H. (1912a, 200)
									to be rather plentiful in bayberry and other heavy bushes, and is sometimes found
									in numbers on the ground among leaves and low plants under live oaks.
								The Liphoplus krugii
									Sauss. (1897, 232) from Cuba, the Mogosiplistus
										slossoni
									Scudder (1897f) from Biscayne Bay, Fla., and the M.
										barbouri
									Morse (1905, 21) from Nassau are placed by  R. & H. as synonyms of C. antillarum. The
									majority of the records from Florida have been made under the names of the first
									two synonyms mentioned. The first specimens from that State were taken by Mrs. A.
									T. Slosson under bark of fallen trees, and she speaks of them (1901) as "silvery
									iridescent pearly little creatures, very agile and slippery."

								
									318. CYCLOPTILUM TRIGONIPALPUM
										(Rehn & Hebard), 1912a, 204.

									"Differs from C. antillarum in the average smaller size,
										more graceful build, more pronounced interantennal sulcus and very different
										terminal joint of maxillary palpi, the edges of which, when viewed from the
										side, form an isosceles triangle since this joint expands widely distad and is
										very obliquely truncate. Pronotum proportionally narrower and smaller in both
										sexes; caudal femora less strongly inflated. Subgenital plate of male very
										slightly less produced obtuse-angulate; of female semi-ovate, broadly
										obtuse-angulate at apex. Color very similar to that of antillarum. Maxillary palpi never darkly suffused; dorsal surface of
										abdomen wholly black (Fig. 222.) Length of body, ♂, 6.8--7.1, ♀, 7.8--8.5; of
										pronotum, ♂, 3.7--4.1, ♀, 2--2.1; of hind femora, ♂, 4.2--5, ♀, 5--5.5; of
										ovipositor, 4--6.2 mm." (R. & H.)
								

								
									Fig. 222. Dorsal view of male type, X 4. (After R. & H.)
								

								Dunedin and Cape Sable, Fla., March 2--25 (W. S. B.). About
									Dunedin the nymphs of this form are frequently taken by sweeping low shrubs during
									the winter months, and adults by beating oak and bayberry about the middle of
									March. In two of the males the tegmina are slightly prolonged beyond the pronotum.
									It is very close to antillarum, the only fixed differential
									character being that of the form of the terminal joint of palpi. The insects are
									thickly clothed with nearly transparent scales and in the field they frequently
									appear to have the black abdomen ringed above with whitish scales at the
									intersection of the segments.
								The known range of C. trigonipalpum extends from Petersburg,
									Va. to Key West, Fla., Agricultural College, Miss. and the Bahama Islands. It has
									been taken by R. & H. and Davis at numerous stations in both Georgia and
									Florida, having been found mainly on the shrubby undergrowth of open pine woods,
									sometimes beneath the loose bark of trees in hammocks.
							


							

							
								II. OLIGACANTHOPUS
									Rehn & Hebard, 1912a, 218. (Gr., "small" + "thorn" +
									"feet.")

								Very small scaly wingless crickets having the head small, horizontal, wider than
									long, the interantennal protuberance subdepressed, broadly rounded, without a
									dividing sulcus; antennæ very slender, tapering, twice or more as long as body;
									eyes triangular-ovoid, rather prominent; disk of pronotum depressed, subquadrate,
									female, slightly longer than wide, male, its sides nearly parallel, front and hind
									margins truncate; legs all short; femora unarmed, hind ones feebly dilated; hind
									tibiæ heavy, short, the upper margins minutely serrulate, and apical fourth with
									three pairs of very short spurs; first hind tarsal joint more than half the length
									of tibiæ, minutely serrulate above. Males with subgenital plate transverse, its
									apex broadly curved; anal cerci slender, tapering, very bristly, as long as hind
									femora. Ovipositor about two-thirds the length of hind femora, rather stout, its
									apical third sublanceolate with lower margins very finely serrulate. But one
									species is known.

								
									319. OLIGACANTHOPUS PROGRAPTUS
										Rehn & Hebard, 1912a, 219.

									Size small; form depressed. General color pale brown but hidden everywhere
										except on front of face with a thick coating of silvery and fuscous scales; face
										between the antennæ with four vertical dark brown stripes; antennæ and palpi
										yellowish, their basal portions annulated with fuscous; legs all barred or
										ringed with fuscous scales; abdomen thickly clothed with similar scales
										interrupted with many silvery ones. Structural characters as given above. Length
										of body, ♂ and ♀, 6--6.7; of pronotum, 1.5--1.7; of hind femora, 3.7--4.2; of
										ovipositor, 2.5--3 mm. Width of pronotum, 1.4--1.6 mm. (Fig. 223.)
								
								
									Fig. 223. a, Front view of head; b, adult
										male. X 4 (After Hebard.)
								

								Miami, Fla., March (Hebard). Known only from Brickell's
									Hammock, Miami, on the Atlantic Coast and by a single nymph taken by Hebard on
									Captiva Island, Charlotte Harbor on the Gulf Coast of Florida. Of its habits at
									Miami Hebard (1915b, 461) says: "A series of 57 specimens was taken
									March 4--15 by peeling off loose bark on two typical trees of the hammock jungle,
									the inkwood, Exothea paniculata Juss. and the pigeon plum, Coccolobis laurifolia Jacq. and on live oaks, Quercus
										virginiana Mill. Often several trees would be thoroughly examined without
									success, but usually two or three specimens would be found and rarely six or
									seven, on the same tree. When revealed, the tiny insects either fell with the bark
									or  remained usually motionless when they could
									easily be made to jump into the beating net, which was held below the spot under
									investigation to catch the bark and any specimens which might fall with it.
									Without such use of a net the species would prove very difficult to capture. The
									insect is apparently wholly nocturnal and individuals probably seldom leave the
									tree trunks. This latter is indicated by the peculiar silvery general coloration
									of the insects, mottled and speckled with dark brown, which blends perfectly with
									the bark of the trees upon which they are found, but which would cause them to be
									conspicuous under many other environmental conditions."
							
						

						
							Subfamily V. GRYLLINÆ. THE GROUND AND FIELD CRICKETS.


							This subfamily comprises our most numerous and best known crickets. They are of
								small or medium size, usually robust and stubby in form and have the head large,
								vertical or nearly so, vertex broad, rounded into the face; antennæ long, setaceous;
								ocelli three, usually arranged in a very obtuse triangle; pronotum short,
								subquadrate, its front and hind margins truncate or nearly so; tegmina and wings
								variable in length; stridulating organ of male furnished with a speculum; fore tibiæ
								with a tympanum on one or both faces; femora unarmed, hind ones very stout; hind
								tibiæ armed above with two rows of spines, without serrations between them, and with
								six subapical spurs; joints of all the tarsi compressed; anal cerci long, tapering,
								bristly. Ovipositor variable in length, straight, slender, cylindrical, feebly
								lanceolate at apex.
							About 20 genera of the subfamily are known, six of which are represented in the
								eastern United States. The principal literature treating of these is as follows:
									Saussure, 1874, 379, 1877, 226; Blatchley, 1892, 1900,
									1903; Scudder, 1896a, 1896b, 1896c, 1901b, 1902a;
									Walker, E. M. 1904; Morse, 1905; Lutz,
								1908; Hebard, 1913, 1913a, 1915, 1915c; R. & H.,
									1915c, 1916.

							
								KEY TO EASTERN GENERA OF GRYLLINÆ.

								a. Spines of hind tibiæ long, movable, pilose; last joint of maxillary
									palpi at least twice the length of the one preceding; basal joint of hind tarsi
									(in our species) unarmed above; smaller, length of body less than 12 mm.
								b. Lower front angle of lateral lobes of pronotum rounded; tegmina of male
									with a tympanum; hind tibiæ armed above with four spines on each margin and with
									three subapical spurs on each side. I. NEMOBIUS, p. 671.
								bb. Lower front angle of lateral lobes rectangular or acute; tegmina of
									male without a tympanum; hind tibiæ armed above with  three spines on each margin and with only two subapical spurs on inner side
									(Fig. 235, c.) II. HYGRONEMOBIUS, p. 688.
								aa. Spines of hind tibiæ stout, immovable; last joint of maxillary palpi
									not more than one-third longer than the one preceding; basal joint of hind tarsi
									serrate above on both margins; larger, length of body rarely under 14 mm.
								c. Ocelli arranged in a nearly transverse row; upper inner subapical spur
									of hind tibiæ as long as the middle inner one; ovipositor very short, scarcely
									visible. III. ANUROGRYLLUS, p.
									690.
								cc. Ocelli arranged in an obtuse triangle; upper inner spur of hind tibiæ
									shorter than the middle one; ovipositor at least half as long as hind
									femora.
								d. Vertex between the antennæ scarcely wider than basal joint of antennæ;
									lower margin of lateral lobes very short, rounded into both front and hind
									margins. IV. GRYLLODES, p. 692.
								dd. Vertex between the antennæ twice or more as wide as basal joint of
									antennæ; lower margin of lateral lobes elongate, nearly straight.
								e. Hind tibiæ not more than two-thirds the length of hind femora, armed
									above with four or five spines on each margin; fore tibiæ in short-winged forms
									with a tympanum on outer side only. V. MIOGRYLLUS, p. 693.
								ee. Hind tibiæ three-fourths or more the length of hind femora, armed
									above with five to eight spines on each margin; fore tibiæ with a tympanum on both
									outer and inner sides. VI. GRYLLUS, p.
										696.
							

							
								I. NEMOBIUS
									Serville 1839, 345. (Gr., "a grove-dweller.") THE GROUND CRICKETS.

								Size small, form compact; body and legs sparsely clothed with long bristle-like
									hairs; vertex rounded into the face; ocelli small, round, arranged in a triangle;
									eyes oval, prominent; disk of pronotum subquadrate, but slightly wider than head;
									lower margin of lateral lobes horizontal, its front and hind angles rounded;
									tegmina of male usually shorter than abdomen, their tips rounded or subtruncate,
									the tympanum with but a single oblique ulnar vein; tegmina of female with a few
									prominent longitudinal veins and numerous connecting cross-veinlets; wings
									variable in length, often absent; inner or hind face of fore tibiæ only with a
									tympanum; hind femora strongly swollen; basal joint of hind tarsi not sulcate
									above, armed only at apex with two small teeth and with a long spine on each side,
									the inner one the longer; cerci of both sexes very slender, tapering, half the
									length of hind femora clothed with short hairs and long bristles. Ovipositor
									variable as to species.
								Of all the Gryllidæ which occur with us, these little brown ground crickets of
									the genus Nemobius are the most numerous and the most social.
									Unlike their larger cousins, the field crickets, 
									they do not wait for darkness before seeking their food, but where-ever the grass
									has been cropped short, whether on shaded hillside or in the full glare of the
									noonday sun along the beaten roadway, mature specimens may be seen by hundreds
									during the days of early autumn. Even the tangled masses of sphagnum mosses and
									other semi-aquatic growth of fen and marsh furnish shelter and food to certain
									species which, in the ages of the past, have becom adapted to a life of such
									surroundings.
								They appear to be omnivorous, feeding upon carrion, cow dung and grasses with
									equal avidity. Though small in size, their enormous numbers, as well as the fact
									that they are constant, greedy feeders from the time the eggs hatch in spring
									until laid low by the hoar frost of autumn, renders them particularly injurious.
									The aggregate damage which they cause to grass and kindred plants in the course of
									a single season must be great, and there is little doubt but that all species of
									the genus should be classed among those insects highly destructive to forage
									plants.
								The small size, nearly uniform color and variability in length of tegmina, wings
									and ovipositor have led to many synonyms among the species of Nemobins. Up to 1900 but four species were known from the Eastern States.
									In that year I described three additional ones from Indiana, and a fourth in 1903.
									Hart, Walker, Caudell and Hebard have since described other forms. Hebard in his
									Revision (1913) placed several of the previously known forms as synonyms or
									varieties, and recognized 12 species and seven races or varieties from America
									north of Mexico. In the present work most of his conclusions have been adopted and
									the following key is based largely upon the one prepared by him.
								
									Fig. 224. Color pattern of face and varieties, and head of Nemobius. a, grisens, b, c, ambitiosus, X 4. (After Hebard.)
								

								
									KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF NEMOBIUS.

									a. Lower pair of apical spurs of hind tibiæ unequal in length, the inner
										one much the longer; apex of ovipositor with only the upper margin
										serrulate.
									b. Ovipositor straight or nearly so, at least as long as, or barely
										shorter than hind femora (except in the race funeralis.)
									c. Ovipositor distinctly longer than hind femora (except in races socius and funeralis); black markings of body
										not scattered in blotches and dashes to give a mottled appearance; wings often
										fully developed.
									d. Face below the antennæ not a uniform shining piceous; general color
										without a grayish suffusion.


									


									e. Ovipositor longer than hind femora; species of northern range.
									f. Occiput with four dark stripes; general color rusty black to sooty
										brown; larger, length of body, males 7.5--10, females, 8--11 mm. 320. FASCIATUS.
									ff. Occiput without evident black stripes; general color very dark;
										smaller, males, 6.7--8, females, 7.3--9 mm. 320a. ABORTIVUS.
									ee. Ovipositor no longer than hind femora; species of southern range;
										color and size of fasciatus. 320b. SOCIUS.
									dd. Face below the antennæ a uniform shining piceous (Fig. 224, a); general color with a grayish suffusion; lateral margins of
										dorsal field of male tegmina narrowly yellow.
									g. Ovipositor much longer than hind femora; distribution northern. 321. GRISEUS.
									gg. Ovipositor nearly one-third shorter than hind femora; distribution
										southern and southwestern. 321a. FUNERALIS.
									cc. Ovipositor no longer than hind femora; black markings, especially in
										females, scattered to give a mottled appearance; brachypterous, wings
										absent.
									h. Head without an ivory-white bar between the eyes; hind femora without
										two lengthwise fuscous stripes; general range northern. 322.
												MACULATUS.
									hh. Head with a narrow white cross-bar between the eyes, this bordered
										above with a wider shining black one (Fiig. 224, b); hind
										femora usually with two fuscous stripes; general range southern. 323. AMBITIOSUS.
									bb. Ovipositor evidently but not strongly curved, about two-thirds as
										long as hind femora (Figs. 229, 231.)
									i. Larger, length of body, male, rarely under 6 mm.; color not a uniform
										pitchy brown; habitat not confined to sphagnum bogs.
									j. Pronotum and femora clay-yellow mottled with fuscous; wings absent;
										apex of ovipositor armed above with rather stout, very sharp teeth; general
										range northern. 324. VARIEGATUS.
									jj. Pronotum and femora not distinctly mottled with fuscous; wings
										usually present and longer than abdomen; ovipositor armed with very fine,
										close-set teeth; general range southern.
									k. Occiput without a narrow dark cross-line; tegmina of females as long
										as abdomen, their tips narrowly rounded; general color dark brown, not
										distinctly mottled. 325. CUBENSIS.
									kk. Occiput with a narrow dark cross-bar behind the eyes; tegmina of
										female about three-fifths the length of abdomen, their tips subtruncate; general
										color paler brown mottled with fuscous. 325a. MORMONIUS.
									ii. Smaller, length of body, male, rarely more than 5.8 mm.; general
										color uniform piceous (rarely, southern specimens, dull  yellow with only the tegmina piceous); habitat confined to sphagnum
										bogs. 326. PALUSTRIS.
									aa. Lower pair of apical spurs of hind tibiæ equal in length; apex of
										ovipositor with both upper and lower margin serrulate, the teeth of the latter
										very fine and widely spaced (Figs. 233, 234.)
									l. Last two joints of maxillary palpi not wholly white; general color
										pale brown; dorsal surface of abdomen of female dark brown with three rows of
										paler spots. 327. CAROLINUS.
									ll. Last two joints of maxillary palpi pure bone-white; general color
										very dark brown; dorsal surface of female abdomen without pale spots. 328. CONFUSUS.
								

								
									320. NEMOBIUS FASCIATUS
										(DeGeer), 1773, 522. Striped Ground Cricket.

									Size large for the genus. General color dark reddish-brown to dusky black;
										head and pronotum usually darker than the other parts; occiput with four more or
										less distinct blackish stripes; tegmina in great part, lower part of lateral
										lobes and cheeks pale brownish-yellow; nymphs usually with a median dorsal dark
										stripe on abdomen and a broad dark band on lateral lobes. Pronotum about
										one-third wider than long, its bristly hairs very numerous. Tegmina dimorphic in
										length, nearly as long as hind femora and reaching nearly to tip of abdomen in
										both sexes (fasciatus), often one-half shorter and reaching
										only the middle of abdomen in female (vittatus). Wings also
										dimorphic, surpassing tip of ovipositor in macropterous female, represented by
										mere scales in brachypterous one. Ovipositor, rigid, straight, apical fourth
										very feebly sublanceolate at tip, with upper valves serrulate above. Length of
										body, ♂, 7.2--10.6, ♀, 8--11.5; of pronotum, ♂, 1.8--2.1, ♀, 1.7--2.4; of
										tegmina, ♂ and ♀, long form, 7--7.5, short form, ♂, 4.1--5.5, ♀, 3.7--6.1; of
										hind femora, ♂, 5.7-7.6, ♀, 6--8; of ovipositor, 6.8--9.4 mm. (Fig. 225.)
								
								
									Fig 225. Female. Short-winged form. (After Lugger.)
								

								The long-winged or typical form of this ground cricket is much less common in
									Indiana than the short-winged one. I have taken it in the field on but two or
									three occasions, and then in small numbers on the stems of tall grasses about the
									margins of marshes. However, many have been taken from the walks and streets of
									Indianapolis, Fort Wayne and other cities and towns in the northern part of the
									State, but none, as yet, in the southern half, not even in Terre Haute, where I
									resided for seven years. Where the long-winged form breeds, and feeds by day is to
									me unknown. It appears to reach maturity about July 15th as, at times, in the
									first week in August, swarms composed of myriads have appeared about the lights of
									some of the cities. The newspapers the next day had a column or more devoted to
									the insects but nothing, except wild guesses, as to whence they came.



								


								The short winged form (vittatus) begins to reach maturity in
									central Indiana about July 15th. Living specimens have been seen as late as
									December 1st. Although present in vast numbers, but little is known of its life
									habits. When disturbed they are very difficult to capture, making enormous leaps
									with their stout hind legs, no sooner striking the ground than they are up again,
									even if not pursued, until they find a leaf or other shelter beneath which to take
									refuge.
								The known range of N. fasciatus is a very wide one, extending
									from Nova Scotia and New England, west to Manitoba, Wyoming and Utah, and south
									and southwest to Tennessee, central Georgia, Arkansas and New Mexico. West of
									Manitoba typical fasciatus is replaced by its northern race abortivus Caudell, and south of North Carolina and central Georgia
									by the southern race socius Scudder. It is recorded as common
									wherever found and in number of individuals is perhaps the most abundant of all
									our eastern Orthoptera.
								Piers (1918, 331) says it is one of the most numerous species of
									Orthoptera in Nova Scotia, all the specimens noted, however, being the
									short-winged form.

								
									"Around Halifax they begin to reach maturity about July 20, but the males do
										not commence stridulating till a fortnight later. At first a few are heard and
										only at night and so very faintly as to be all but inaudible except to a trained
										ear. In a few days they may be heard in daytime as well as at night and the
										notes become more noticeable. They are last heard at Halifax about Nov. 10, * *
										* some of them surviving as many as four ice-forming frosts, frozen ground and
										even evanescent snow falls.
									"The stridulation or shrilling note of the male is produced by the insect
										lifting the wing-covers about 45° above the body, and then shuffling them very
										rapidly together so as to vibrate the resonant organ at their base; thus
										producing a trilling sound or tremolo, of a prolonged character, resembling the
										syllable ple-e-e-e, ple-e-e-e, ple-e-e-e, repeated at rather
										short intervals or sometimes continued for several seconds or even much longer.
										The sound has a peculiar silvery timbre, and when myriads are shrilling all over
										the fields at night, or on fine days in late autumn, when other sounds are
										hushed and the air filled with the mystic charm of the hour or season, it
										produces a peculiarly drowsy, ceaseless tremor, pulsation or 'shimmer' of sound
										which is very familiar and loved by all dwellers in the country. It is, however,
										ineffably associated with a sad feeling that summer is on the wane or past, for
										it is our most characteristic autumnal sound in grassy places, and is linked
										with the sight of golden-rods and purple asters and the odour of falling
										leaves."
								

								Scudder (1868a) has set the note of the male to scale and says: "The
									chirping of the striped cricket is very similar to that of the  black field cricket; and may be expressed by r-r-r-u, pronounced as though it were a French word. The note is
									trilled forcibly, and lasts a variable length of time. One of these insects was
									once observed while singing to its mate. At first the song was mild and frequently
									broken; afterwards it grew impetuous, forcible and more prolonged; then it
									decreased in volume and extent until it became quite soft and feeble. At this
									point the male began to approach the female, uttering a series of twittering
									chirps; the female ran away, and the male, after a short chase, returned to his
									old haunt, singing with the same vigor but with more frequent pauses. At length,
									finding all persuasions unavailing, he brought his serenade to a close."
								Allard (1910) states that throughout October and early November "N. f. vittatus fairly swarms in the grass fields and patures of
									much of New England," but he had never taken there the long-winged one. Around
									Washington, D. C. he found the two forms intermingling in some localities, and in
									others the long-winged one wholly absent. He adds: 
										"About Oxford, Mass., two singing forms of N. f. vittatus
											are very common. The stridulation of one of these is a very high pitched,
											prolonged trill, ti-ti-ti-ti-ti-ti-ti-ti-ti; that of the
											other form is a very brief, shrill, intermittent tiiii-tiiii-tiiii. A considerably lower pitch quite sharply
											distinguishes the brief intermittent notes, tiiii-tiiii,
											from the prolonged trill. These two trilling forms of vittatus are quite definitely confined in separate colonies, and in
											different localities. The prolonged trilling form occupies almost exclusively
											the dry, grassy upland fields and pastures. In the damp and marshy low grounds
											in fields and pastures this form is replaced almost entirely by pure colonies
											of the intermittent trilling form. Only where the wet and dry conditions
											overlap is there a noticeable intermingling of the two forms. At Oxford this
											is the most abundant insect of late autumn, and continues to trill in the
											fields until overcome by the keen, freezing nights of November."
									
								

								The known synonyms of N. fasciatus are Acheta
										hospes
									Fab. (1775, 281); Acheta vittata
									Harris (1835, 576), the short-winged form above mentioned; Nemobius exiguus
									Scudder (1862, 429) and N. utahensis
									Scudd. 1896a, 103). The N. canus Scudder of my
									former work (1903, 423) is also placed by Hebard as only a pale form of N. fasciatus, the true N. canus being a synonym
									of N. f. socius Scudd.

								
									320a. NEMOBIUS FASCIATUS ABORTIVUS
										Caudell, 1904b, 248.

									Smaller than typical fasciatus. Color darker, in some
										specimens almost black; tegmina transparent sooty brown, the main veins darker,
										the lateral or costal field blackish, not pale as in fasciatus; femora usually black; dorsum of abdomen dark brown. Tegmina
										shorter than hind femora. Ovipositor with apex enlarged for a shorter distance
										and serrate  as in fasciatus.
										Length of body, ♂, 6.7--8, ♀, 7.3--9; of tegmina, ♂,, 4.3--5.8, ♀, 3.1--4.6; of
										hind femora, ♂, 4.9--5.5, ♀, 5.4--6.2; of ovipositor, 6.2--7.4 mm.
								

								Moose Jaw, Assiniboia, Aug. 24 (Caudell). This small dark form
									of N. fasciatus is included in this work on the Ft. William,
									Ont., record of E. M. Walker (1911, 304) who states that: "The
									specimens were confined to a small sandy area thinly clothed with grass and weeds.
									They were very small and the stridulation was a low continuous trill differing
									from that of typical fasciatus. It is thus possible that this
									form is specifically distinct." He also states (1910, 354) that a series of abortivus from Aweme, "show great variation in color and length of
									tegmina and ovipositor. Some individuals approach N. maculatus
									Bl. from Indiana in all of these characters and are scarcely distinguishable
									except by the longer and more numerous hairs of the pronotum, but as a rule the
									ovipositor is distinctly longer than in N. maculatus."
								Caudell's types were from Moose Jaw where he found them "hopping actively about
									in the grass in and along the borders of a draw or small hollow in the prairie."
										Hebard (1913, 429) gives the distribution as "the prairie region of
									Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta and the adjacent portions of the United States.
									Only brachypterous individuals are known."

								
									320b. NEMOBIUS FASCIATUS SOCIUS
										Scudder, 1877, 37.

									Size and form of typical fasciatus. Color same as there,
										ranging from pale reddish (canus Scudder) to fuscous-brown,
										the dark stripes on occiput often wanting in very pale or very dark specimens.
										Differs from fasciatus only in having the ovipositor as short
										as or shorter than the hind femora. "Nearly allied to our common N.
											vittatus with which it agrees in size, although a little slenderer;
										tegmina, however, much longer and ovipositor proportionally a little shorter."
											(Scudder.)
								

								Lake Okeechobee, Ft. Myers, Lakeland, Sarasota and Dunedin, Fla. (W.
										S. B.) ; Thomasville, Ga. (Hebard) ; Dallas, Tex. (Boll.) About Dunedin both adults and nymphs occur throughout the
									winter among the low grasses and beneath boards and logs along the borders of
									ponds and low marshy places in open pine woods. Recorded from numerous localities
									on the mainland of Florida but not as yet from the southern keys.
								The range of this form, which is so close to N. fasciatus that
									it is hardly worthy a distinctive name, extends from North Carolina and Tennessee
									south throughout Florida, west to Brownsville, Texas and north to Arkansas and
									Oklahoma, where it merges into typical fasciatus. It appears to
									be nowhere so abundant as is fasciatus vittatus in the north and
									macropterous individuals are  said to be more
									numerous than short-winged ones, though this is not true in the series at hand
									from Florida.
								Hebard has placed both the N. canus and the male of N. aterimus of Scudder (1896a, 103, 105) and also the
										N. hastatus
									Sauss. (1897, 221) as synonyms of N. f. socius. Of
										canus, described from Texas, Scudder states: "This is possibly
									only a geographic race of fasciatus remarkable for its cinerous
									aspect and the striped appearance of the female tegmina." A female cotype from
									Dallas, sent me by Scudder, has the ovipositor fully as long as in fasciatus and there is little doubt but that fasciatus,
										vittatus, socius, canus and abortivus should all be
									merged under DeGeer's name. The trinomial names are retained here only that the
									student may thus label his specimens if he so desire.

								
									321. NEMOBIUS GRISEUS
										E. M. Walker, 1904, 182. Gray Ground Cricket.

									Size rather small; form moderately slender. Dull reddish-brown covered with
										fine, short closely appressed gray or brown hairs; occiput dull yellow with
										three dark fuscous stripes; face piceous; maxillary palpi reddish-brown, the
										terminal segment fuscous; lateral lobes of pronotum dark brown their lower
										margin yellowish. Tegmina translucent, the dorsal field pale brownish-yellow,
										often with a few fuscous blotches near base, in male narrowly margined with pale
										yellow; lateral field in great part fuscous. Femora fuscous-brown with numerous
										small pale spots. Abdomen above with a median row of large fuscous spots. Disk
										of pronotum about one-fourth wider than long, sparsely clothed with long black
										bristles, its front half or more with a distinct impressed median line. Tegmina
										of male covering three-fourths or more of abdomen, in repose forming an oblong
										quadrangle with sides very feebly converging from base, their tips broadly
										rounded; of female more than half as long as hind femora with tips broadly
										obliquely rounded. Wings absent. Ovipositor stout, straight; apical sixth feebly
										swollen, finely serrulate above. Length of body, ♂, 6.8--8, ♀, 7.6--8.2; of
										pronotum, ♂, 1.4--1.8, ♀, 1.6--2.1; of tegmina, ♂, 4--4.9, ♀,, 2.8--3; of hind
										femora, ♂, 4.9--6, ♀, 5.7--6.9; of ovipositor, 7.2--8.9 mm. (Fig. 226.)
								
								
									Fig. 226. Female, X 3. (After Hebard.)
								

								Toronto, Ontario, Aug. 9--16 (Walker), Vigo and Crawford
									Counties, Ind., Sept. 4--Oct. 9, three males (W.S.B.). The
									Indiana specimens are in part treated by me (1900, 54; 1903, 425), upon the
									authority of Scudder, as N. cubensis Sauss. Hebard (1913,
										434) has placed them as griscus. They differ from
									typical male Ontario griseus in being less gray and lacking the
									fuscous blotches on base of tegmina, in the distinct yellow discoidal veins of
									tegmina, and in the single Crawford County one being much larger, it furnishing
									all the maximum measurements for that sex above given.  As I have no Indiana female, I have adopted Hebard's conclusions.
									Those from Vigo County were taken from the sandy bed of the old canal five miles
									north of Terre Haute.
								Of his types Walker (loc. cit.) wrote: "This is a well marked
									species, easily distinguished from N. fasciatus by its much
									smaller size, grayish coloration, more distinct dark markings and longer
									ovipositor. It occurs only on sandy soil where the vegetation is somewhat scanty.
									The pale colors render it very inconspicuous against the sand. The chirp of the
									male is a feeble continuous trill, more high pitched and much shorter than that of
										fasciatus."
								N. griseus has been recorded only from central eastern Ontario,
									Maine, Massachusetts and the Indiana localities above given. A single long-winged
									female was taken by Walker. It is closely allied to fasciatus,
									its xerophytic habitats having produced slight color and structural changes which
									are probably sufficient to retain its specific standing.

								
									321a. NEMOBIUS GRISEUS FUNERALIS
										Hart, 1906a, 159.

									"Differs from N. griseus only in its darker coloration,
										more obscure color pattern and much shorter ovipositor, the latter being but
										little over three-fourths the length of caudal femur." (Hebard.) Length of body, ♂, 8.9, ♀, 7.9--9.2; of pronotum, ♂, 2, ♀,
										1.7--1.9; of tegmina, ♂, 5.8, ♀, 2.7--3.8; of hind femora, ♂, 6.6, ♀, 5.6--6; of
										ovipositor, 4--4.4 mm.
								

								Hart's unique female type was taken Dec. 26, at College Station, Tex. It is
									placed as a southern race of griseus by Hebard (1913,
										437). R. & H. (1916, 288) have recorded a single female
									from Macon, Ga., and a male from Winslow, Ark.

								
									322. NEMOBIUS MACULATUS
										Blatchley, 1900, 52. Larger Spotted Ground Cricket.

									Size medium for the genus; form robust. Dark brown with a yellowish
										suffusion, more or less dotted with piceous, especially on occiput, cheeks, disk
										of pronotum and hind femora; occiput with a narrow median yellowish line and
										another about the eyes; maxillary palpi reddish-brown, apical half of terminal
										segment fuscous; tegmina of male with dorsal field translucent brown, the
										discoidal vein narrowly ivory-white; lateral field and upper two-thirds of
										lateral lobes in both' sexes dark brown. Head rather large, as wide as pronotum.
										Disk of pronotum about two-fifths wider than long, feebly narrowing from base to
										apex, its front margin and lateral lobes sparingly beset with stiff black
										bristles. Tegmina of female less than half as long as hind femora, covering
										one-third of abdomen, their tips both of dorsal and costal fields obliquely
										subtruncate and meeting at an angle, the longitudinal veins prominent, cross
										veinlets feeble; those of male covering two-thirds of abdomen, their tips
										broadly obliquely rounded. Ovipositor straight, the apical sixth tapering evenly
										to the acute tip, finely and sharply serrulate above (Fig. 227.) Length of body,
										♂,  6.5--8.4, ♀, 7.5--9; of pronotum, ♂, 1.8--2,
										♀, 1.9--2.2; of tegmina, ♂, 3.5--4.3, ♀, 2--3.2; of hind femora, ♂, 5.2--6, ♀,
										6.1--6.8; of ovipositor, 5--6.8 mm. (Fig. 228.)
								

								
									Fig. 227. Ovipositor of N. maculatus, X 12. (After
										Hebard.)
								

								This handsome mottled species occurs sparingly throughout Indiana, frequenting
									for the most part low, dry open woods and borders of thickets. In Marion County I
									once found it quite frequent on October 6 amongst dead leaves and beneath logs
									where the ground ivy, Nepeta glechoma L., covered most of the
									earth. A week later, a heavy hoar-frost meanwhile intervening, not a specimen
									could be found.
								From the short-winged form of N. fasciatus this species is
									readily distinguished by its average smaller size, shorter tegmina of female,
									shorter and straighter ovipositor, fewer hairs on head and pronotum and finer
									cross-veinlets of female tegmina. The serrulations of the ovipositor are sharper
									than in fasciatus. The two also differ in color, the ground of
										maculatus being paler and the piceous more generally sprinkled
									where in fasciatus it is in lengthwise bars.

								
									Fig. 228. Female, X 3. (After Hebard.)
								

								The known range of N. maculatus extends from New Canaan, Conn.
									and Long Island, N. Y. west to northern Indiana and south and southwest to
									Maryland, Virginia, Raleigh, N. Car. and Rabun Co., Ga. It is not definitely
									recorded from any locality in Illinois or Michigan, though it doubtless occurs in
									the former and probably in the latter State. Walker's record (1904,
										185) from Tobermory, Ont. is said by Hebard to be based upon a small fasciatus. It has been taken at several stations in Ohio and at
									Clarksville, Tenn. About Washington, D. C. it is said to be common, but Fox
									records only a single female from Tappahannock in his Virginia paper. No
									macropterous specimens are known.

								
									323. NEMOBIUS AMBITIOSUS
										Scudder, 1877a, 81.

									Size small; form compact, robust. Dark reddish-brown; males often with a
										yellowish and females with a grayish tinge. Head vertically compressed, the
										occiput very convex, reddish-brown, with a broad shining  black bar between the eyes; face also shining piceous, sharply
										separated from the black above by a narrow ivory-white bar (Fig. 224, b, c); last joint of maxillary palpi fuscous, the preceding one
										dull yellow. Tegmina of male piceous with the narrow margins (discoidal veins)
										and extreme tips pale yellow. Legs reddish-brown flecked with fuscous; outer
										face of hind femora with two fuscous stripes, the lower one the more distinct;
										basal third or more of dorsum of abdomen piceous, the remainder dark brown. Disk
										of pronotum subquadrate, very slightly wider than long. Tegmina of female often
										in great part buffy, flecked with darker brown, less than half as long as hind
										femora, the tips of dorsal field obliquely rounded; those of male covering
										three-fourths or more of abdomen, and forming an even oblong quadrangle with
										sides parallel and tips broadly rounded, wings absent. Ovipositor straight, its
										apex not thickened, finely serrulate above. Length of body, ♂, 5.9--7.8, ♀,
										6--8.2; of pronotum, ♂, 1.2--1.9; ♀, 1.6--2.1; of tegmina, ♂, 3.2--4.5, ♀,
										2.2--3.3; of hind femora, ♂, 4.8--6, ♀, 4.9--6.3; of ovipositor, 4--6 mm.
								

								Ormond, Ft. Reed, Lake Istokpoga, Ft. Myers, Sarasota, Lakeland and Dunedin, Fla.
										(W. S. B. ); Macon, Ga. (Fox). I first saw
									this handsome and well marked little cricket at Ormond in March 1899 where it was
									frequent among dead leaves and short grasses along the roadways, hedge-rows and
									borders of the pine woods. About Dunedin it is by far the most common of the three
									ground crickets there taken, both nymphs and adults occurring in numbers
									throughout the winter, especially among and beneath the dead leaves and other
									debris in dry sandy open oak and pine woods. The numerous records by other
									collectors show that it occurs in like situations throughout the mainland of the
									State, adults being found during every month of the year.
								The known range of ambitiosus is limited, extending from
									eastern South Carolina and northern Georgia south to Homestead. Fla. Only the
									brachypterous form is known. Allard (1911a, 156) describes its habits
									and song in northern Georgia as follows: "This pretty Nemobius
									is the first species to appear at Thompson's Mills and dwells among leaves in
									deciduous woods. It is especially common on a warm, heavily wooded slope bordering
									a small brook just east of the settlement. The trill is very brief, high-pitched
									and shrill, tiiiiiiii-tiiiiii-tiiiiiiii-tiiiiiiii. It is one of
									the commonest species of Nemobius in this vicinity and begins to
									stridulate as soon as spring opens in March and April. In April, 1910, very cold
									periods of weather with considerable sleet and snow completely silenced these
									hardy crickets. Notwithstanding this inclement weather these crickets were always
									in active stridulation as soon as the days became warmer."


								

								
									324. NEMOBIUS VARIEGATUS
										(Bruner), 1893a, 32. Smaller Spotted Ground Cricket.

									Size medium; form robust. Dull clay yellow, mottled with blackish-brown;
										face below the antennæ shining dark brown; occiput, disk of pronotum and femora
										mottled with fuscous; apical half of terminal segment of maxillary palpi brown;
										tegmina translucent brownish-yellow, the upper third of lateral field with a
										blackish bar; dorsal field in female often with black fleckings; the mottled
										appearance sometimes due, however, to the black of dorsal surface of abdomen
										shining through them. Head large, rounded, as wide as pronotum, both it and the
										latter with scattered long bristly black hairs. Pronotum nearly one-third wider
										than long, its apical two-thirds with a feebly impressed median line. Tegmina of
										male as long as hind femora, reaching tip of abdomen; those of female covering
										half the abdomen, their tips broadly obtusely rounded. Wings absent. Ovipositor
										dark brown, a little upcurved, moderately stout, the apical serrulated portion
										longer than usual, nearly one-fourth the entire length, the teeth rather stout
										with sharp tips (Fig. 229.) Length of body, ♂, 6.4--7.5, ♀, 6.6--9.4; of
										pronotum, ♂, 1.4--1.7, ♀, 1.9--2; of tegmina, ♂, 3.9--4.4, ♀, 2.8--3.7; of hind
										femora, ♂, 4.7--5.6, ♀, 6--6.7; of ovipositor, 3.4--4.1 mm.
								
								
									Fig. 229. Ovipositor of N. variegatus, X 14. (After
										Hebard.)
								

								Marion, Vigo, Putnam and Knox counties, Ind., Oct. 1--27. In Indiana this
									prettily marked little species has been found to be rather common on the
									grass-covered banks of streams and along the fence rows of open woods in the
									counties mentioned and it probably occurs in like situations throughout the
									southern two-thirds of the State. In general appearance it is a diminutive form of
										N. maculatus above described, but its small size and short
									arcuate ovipositor at once distinguish it.
								This is the N. carolinus Scudd. of my former works (1900,
									1903), it having been so named for me by Scudder from specimens sent him for
									examination. As shown by me (1903, 427) it was also regarded as the species called
										Cyrtoxyphus ? variegatus Bruner. Hebard has shown that the
									true N. carolinus is a different insect and has redescribed
									(1913, 452) the present species as N. bruneri, claiming (p. 455)
									that Bruner's name "was unidentifiable from the literature." In a previous letter
									(Jan. 16, 1913) he wrote: "This species must be called Nemobius
										variegatus (Bruner) as this is the earliest description and the type
									specimen is in my collection. Bruner called it a Cyrtoxyphus
									which caused it to be overlooked." While Bruner's mention of the species is
									admittedly very brief he said: "I have given it the name variegatus on account of its being variegated," and as it was the only
									variegated form of Nemobius at that time known I have restored
									his name.


								


								The known range of N. variegatus extends from Maryland and
									Virginia west to northeastern Nebraska and south and southwest to Charlotte, N.
									Car. and Wichita, Kansas. It appears to be very late in reaching maturity, all of
									the Indiana specimens having been taken in October, and none of the adults
									recorded elsewhere from our territory earlier than Sept. 6. No macropterous
									individuals are known.

								
									325. NEMOBIUS CUBENSIS
										Saussure, 1874, 384. Cuban Ground Cricket.

									Size small and form slender for the genus. Dull brownish-yellow; occiput,
										pronotum and tegmina fuscous brown, often with small paler markings; dorsal
										surface of abdomen black; cerci brown. Head as wide as base of pronotum,
										compressed vertically. Disk of pronotum evidently but feebly narrowed from base
										to apex, about one-third wider than long, sparsely clothed with long black
										bristles. Tegmina in both sexes nearly or fully as long as abdomen, those of
										male forming in repose an oblong quadrangle with sides feebly converging from
										base, their tips rounded; of female slightly narrowed toward apex, their tips
										narrowly rounded. Wings usually fully developed, twice as long as tegmina and
										surpassing tip of ovipositor 2--3 mm.; sometimes absent. Ovipositor feebly
										curved, its apex sublanceolate with tips very finely serrulate above (Fig. 230.)
										Length of body, ♂, 5.7--7.2, ♀, 5.6--7.4; of pronotum, ♂, 1.2--1.7, ♀, 1.3--1.7;
										of tegmina, ♂, 3.9--4.8, ♀, 3--4.9; of hind femora, ♂, 4.2--5.6, ♀, 4.7--5.6; of
										ovipositor, 2.7--4 mm.
								
								
									Fig. 230. Ovipositor of N. cubensis, X 17. (After
										Hebard.)
								

								Ormond, LaBelle and Lake Okeechobee, Fla., Mch. 6--Apr. 13 (W. S.
										B.) ; Washington, D. C., Aug. 28 (Caudell). In Florida it
									has been recorded from numerous points throughout the mainland but not from the
									southern keys. The general distribuation in our territory is southern and sub-
									maritime, extending from Staten Island, N. Y. to Homestead, Fla. It was originally
									described from Cuba, Mexico and Brazil.
								The long-winged or typical form of cubensis is more generally
									known than the short-winged one as most of the specimens in collections were taken
									at light. R. & H. (1912) found the brachypterous form in numbers
									March 17 in the high grass of the everglades at Homestead, Fla., and Hebard
										(1915b) records the short-winged form from bare muck in a red mangrove
									swamp at Cape Florida and Key Biscayne. Fox found a single female at Tappahannock,
									Va., on a road through a tidal marsh, so that the natural home of the species is
									probably in or among the tall grasses of marshes and tidal flats.



								


								The N. volaticus
									Scudd. (1877, 36) and the female of N. aterrimus
									Scudd. (1896b, 432) are synonyms of N.
									cubensis.

								
									325a. NEMOBIUS CUBENSIS MORMONIUS
										Scudder, 1896a, 106. Mormon Ground Cricket.

									General color as in key but exceedingly variable; pronotum dull yellow
										usually distinctly blotched with fuscous; tegmina of female with the veins, a
										humeral stripe and costal margins pale. Last joint of maxillary palpus one-half
										longer than fourth. Ovipositor longer than head and pronotum together. Length of
										body, ♂ and ♀, 6.5--8; of tegmina, 3--4; of hind femora, 5--5.8; of ovipositor,
										3.5--4 mm.
								

								This western form is here included on the record given by Hebard of a single
									female taken by F. M. James at Biloxi, Miss. Its known range extends from that
									point to the Pacific coast, north to St. George, Utah (type locality) and south to
									the state of Tabasco, Mex. A macropterous female at hand from Yuma, Cal., is
									notably paler than cubensis but otherwise appears very similar.
									The great majority of known specimens are brachypterous.
								Hebard (1913, 466) says that "in the desert regions of the
									southwestern United States this insect is but very occasionally met with in the
									short grasses growing near streams and other restricted damp areas but in the
									semi-arid mesquite region of Texas it is widely distributed in the short grasses.
									Still farther eastward it is found in the typical undergrowth of the long-leaf
									pine forests. The macropterous form is scarcely ever encountered except at
									light."
								
									Fig. 231. Ovipositor of N. palustris, X 15. (After
										Hebard.)
								

								
									326. NEMOBIUS PALUSTRIS
										Blatchley, 1900, 53. Marsh Ground Cricket.

									Size very small; the body of male especially short and broad; female more
										slender. Head, tegmina and body of most specimens a uniform dark piceous; disk
										of pronotum piceous or fuscous sprinkled with piceous; antennæ, legs and
										ovipositor fuscous; maxillary palpi yellowish except the apical joint which is
										wholly piceous. Disk of pronotum one-third broader than long, the sides
										subparallel, rather thickly beset with stiff black bristles, as are also the
										occiput and dorsal surface of fore and middle femora. Tegmina of female covering
										slightly more than half the abdomen, their tips broadly rounded; of male forming
										an elongate quadrangle with sides distinctly but feebly converging from base,
										the tips more narrowly rounded. Ovipositor distinctly though feebly arcuate, the
										apical fifth but little enlarged, above very finely and closely serrulate with
										dull, rasp-like teeth (Fig. 231.) Length of body, ♂, 5.2--6.2, ♀, 6--6.8; of
										pronotum, ♂, 1--1.5, ♀, 1.3--1.9; of tegmina, ♂, 3.7--4, ♀, 2.1--3.2; of hind
										femora, ♂, 3.9--5, ♀, 4--5.4; of ovipositor, 3.1--3.8 mm. (Fig. 232.)
								


								


								In Indiana this handsome little pitch brown cricket has been found only among the
									tamarack swamps and cranberry bogs of the northern counties, where it finds a
									congenial home in the midst of the dense, damp sphagnum mosses. Sometimes they are
									so plentiful that a half dozen or more are seen in an area a foot square. Like the
									other members of the genus they are very active, when disturbed leaping
									vigorously, a few inches at a time, and finally seeking safety by burrowing in the
									masses of mosses. It has been taken in Marshall, Fulton and Starke counties and
									probably occurs wherever peat bogs and sphagnum mosses are present.
								
									Fig. 232. Female. X 3. (Original.)
								
								The known range of this little marsh cricket extends from northern New England
									and Algonquin Park, Ontario, west to northern Indiana and south and southwest to
									Washington, D. C., Wilmington, N. Car. and Thomasville, Ga. Morse
										(1919a) says it is "locally common in sphagnum bogs at Orono, Me., in
									eastern Massachusetts and Connecticut." Walker (1904, 185) records
									the finding of a colony in a floating sphagnum bog at Algonquin Park, Ont. "They
									were present in numbers but were difficult to capture. By pressing the masses of
									sphagnum down under water it was often possible to bring the crickets to the
									surface. My attention was first called to them by the chirp of the male which is a
									continuous and rather feeble trill."
								R. & H. (1911, 597) have described a form of N.
										palustris taken in a sphagnum bog at Thomasville, Ga. as a geographic race
									under the name of N. p. aurantius. Specimens at hand from the
									Davis and Hebard collections show it to differ only in having the ground color
									reddish-brown, the tegmina and upper surface of abdomen alone piceous-brown. In my
									opinion it is, as doubtfully suggested by Hebard (1913, 472), only a
									"mere color variety" of palustris.

								
									327. NEMOBIUS CAROLINUS
										Scudder, 1877, 36. Carolina Ground Cricket.

									Size medium; body slender. Antennæ, head, pronotum and femora
										brownish-yellow; maxillary palpi pale yellow throughout or with apical third of
										terminal joint fuscous. Tegmina brownish-yellow with a narrow piceous bar on
										upper third of lateral field and basal third of dorsal field often more or less
										piceous, male; dorsal field usually heavily shaded with blackish, female; upper
										surface of abdomen blackish, the exposed portion in female dark brown with four
										rows of small pale spots; lower surface brownish-yellow. Head prominent, as wide
										as base of pronotum, eyes  small, broadly ovate.
										Pronotum about one-third wider than long, its apex very slightly narrower than
										base, its sides and front margin with a few long bristly hairs. Tegmina of male
										translucent, delicate, covering three-fourths or more of abdomen, often reaching
										its tip; lateral field widened to embrace the sides of the broad abdomen; of
										female covering about two-thirds of abdomen, their tips obliquely subtruncate.
										Wings usually absent, rarely fully developed and much surpassing the abdomen.
										Ovipositor distinctly though feebly curved, the valves with apical fifth
										slightly sublanceolate and both upper and lower margins curved, the teeth of
										former stout, rather widely and irregularly spaced, those of lower minute,
										widely separated (Fig. 233.) Length of body, ♂, 7.4--8.5, ♀, 6.5--8.4; of
										pronotum, ♂ and ♀, 1.7--2; of tegmina, ♂, 5.5--6, ♀, 3--3.8; of hind femora, ♂,
										5.5--6.4, ♀, 5--6.4; of ovipositor, 3--3.9 mm.
								
								
									Fig. 233. Ovipositor of N. carolinus, X 13. (After
										Hebard.)
								

								This species, the N. exiguus of my former work (1903, 426),
									occurs throughout Indiana where it is fully one-half as common as the short-winged
									form of N. fasciatus. It occurs most frequently among moist
									fallen leaves and beneath stones along fence rows and borders of thickets and
									streams. The long-winged form is very rare, two females, taken in Wells County by
									E. B. Williamson, being the only ones seen from the State.
								Outside of Indiana specimens of N. carolinus are at hand from
									De Grassi Point, and Owen's Sound, Ont. (Walker) ; South Natick,
									Mass. (Morse) ; North Carolina (Scudder) ;
									North Madison, Conn. and Sanford, Lakeland, La Belle, Sarasota and Dunedin, Fla.
										(W. S. B.). About Dunedin it is very scarce in early spring
									but several long-winged females have been sent me which were taken at light in
									June. It is recorded from numerous localities from the southern mainland of
									Florida by R. & H., but the records from the northern part of the State are
									few. Near Miami, Hebard found it locally common "on sodden leaves under a
									labyrinth of roots in a dense red mangrove swamp."
								The known range of N. carolinus is a wide one, extending from
									Truro, Nova Scotia and New England north and west to the Temagami District, Ont.,
									Minnesota and Nebraska and south and southwest to southern Florida and central
									Texas. From Truro, N. S. but a single male is recorded, but in Ontario
										Walker (1904, 187, as N. angusticollis) found it,
									as it is in Indiana, next to fasciatus the most common Nemobius in the Province. There, he says: 
										"It frequents low grounds of almost any kind, but delights especially in low
											grassy borders of swampy woods or clearings in swamps. I have found it in
											abundance in sphagum moss when growing in such localities, but have not met
											with it in the open peat-bogs where N. palustris occurs.  It is also found beneath stones along the margins
											of lakes and streams. I first discovered this insect through its stridulation,
											which was a high-pitched continuous trill of considerable volume."
									
								
								Allard (1916a) says that about Clarendon, Va., the tiny Nemobius carolinus is very common beneath the leaves and grass of the
									roadsides throughout the summer. Its stridulation is a weak, continuous trill
									indefinitely prolonged. They are persistent singers and may be heard throughout
									the night. In the coolness of the early morning they appear to be especially
									musical. They keep well concealed beneath the dead and matted herbage, and are
									exceedingly difficult to capture."
								Owing to numerous wrong identifications by Scudder and the confusion by him of
									the species above described as N. variegatus with his N. carolinus, the synonyms of the latter are numerous. In addition
									to my Nemobius exiguus above cited, as placed by Hebard
										(1913, 473), are N. septentrionalis
									Prov. (1877, 24), N. volaticus Scudd., female
									(1877, 36), N. affinis
									Beut. (1894a, 249), N. angusticollis
									Walker (1904, 186) and N. janus
									Kirby (1906, 19). It has been recorded many times under these
									synonyms, especially that of N. exiguus Blatch., a name used by
									Say for a species of Anaxipha and wrongly applied by
										Scudder (1862, 429) to Nemobius fasciatus Say.
									Hebard in his Revision (1913) has given a detailed account of the synonymy of this
									and other species of Nemobius. Two races of N. carolinus are recognized by him, viz: N. c. brevicaudus
									Bruner (1904, 57) from Colorado and N. c.
										neomexicanus
									Scudd. (1896a, 100) from Texas, Arizona and New Mexico.
								
									Fig. 234. Ovipositor of N. confusus, X 14. (After
										Hebard.)
								

								
									328. NEMOBIUS CONFUSUS
										Blatchley, 1903, 428.

									Size rather small; form moderately robust. Head, pronotum and tegmina
										piceous, shining, last two segments of maxillary palpi ivory-white, the basal
										ones piceous; dorsal surface of abdomen dark brown; legs and under surface dull
										yellow. Pronotum about one-third wider than long, with a median impressed line
										on front half, its disk, as well as that of occiput and fore and middle femora,
										with scattered black bristly hairs. Tegmina of male translucent, covering end of
										abdomen, in repose forming an elongate quadrangle with margins subparallel; of
										female half as long as hind femora, their tips broadly slightly obliquely
										rounded. Ovipositor but little more than half as long as hind femora, dark brown
										in color, its apical third wider and a little upturned; armed both above and
										below, the upper teeth rather stout, sharp, and more than usually distant one
										from another, the lower ones very fine and also widely spaced (Fig. 234.) Length
										of body, ♂, 5.7--7, ♀, 6.8--7.3; of pronotum, ♂, 1.4--1.7, ♀, 1.4--1.9; of
										tegmina, ♂, 3.8--4.8, ♀, 2.8--3.1; of hind femora, ♂, 4.1--4.9, ♀, 4.8--5.3; of
										ovipositor, 2.5--3.1 mm.
								


								


								Kosciusko, Knox and Posey counties, Ind., Aug. 17--Oct. 25 (W. S.
										B.) ; Cabin John Run, Md. (Davis) This sombre-hued little
									cricket was first found in Kosciusko Co. Aug. 26, 1902, in some low, damp woods
									bordering Tippecanoe Lake. Here it had its home among the fallen leaves and
									beneath small chunks and chips. From Posey County a single specimen was procured
									also from a tract of low woods and on Oct. 5, 1917, about twenty were taken from
									beneath dead leaves on the side of a thickly wooded little slope leading down to
									the margin of a cypress swamp in Knox County. It appears that I had no males in
									the type series of confusus taken at Tippecanoe Lake and
									unfortunately got hold of a male of N. maculatus in drawing up
									the original description, so that the characters therein pertaining to that sex
									are misleading.
								Outside of Indiana N. confusus has been recorded from a number
									of stations in Maryland and Virginia, from Raleigh, N. Car. and from Rabun County
									and Buckhead, Ga. At Raleigh Brimley (1908, 21) found it "in damp
									places not far from water from mid-August to late November," while at Buckhead a
									nymph was taken by R. & H. from the undergrowth of mixed oak and pine forest.
									No macropterous specimens are known.
								It seems that each of the different species of this genus taken in Indiana has
									its special abiding place, fasciatus and carolinus being the only ones which may be looked for anywhere in open
									fields and along roadways; maculatus occurs in open woods
									usually in dry situations; griseus in sandy districts; variegatus along the banks of streams and on gravelly hillsides;
										palustris nowhere except among the sphagnum mosses of dense
									swamps and bogs, while confusus likes best the shadows of dense
									woods which are low and moist. Each form has, therefore, its special habitat where
									the food on which it thrives is most abundant, and where, during the ages past, it
									has become so modified in organ and hue as to receive from man a distinctive
									specific name.
							

							
								II HYGRONEMOBIUS
									Hebard, 1913a, 451. (Gr., "moist" + "grove-dweller.")

								Small compact crickets closely allied to Nemobius80 and having the body
									pubescent, sparsely clothed with hairs, head and pronotum similar to Nemobius, the lower front angles of lateral lobes rectangular and much
									sharper than the lower hind ones; 80Also very close to Pseudonemobius
										Sauss. (1877, 231, 234; 1878, 510), the differential characters
										given by Saussure in his key being almost exactly the same as those given by
										Hebard for the present genus.
									 tegmina of males short, lacking a tympanum; wings
									usually absent; inner or hind face of front tibiæ with, a very small, scarcely
									evident tympanum; hind femora greatly dilated; hind tibiæ with upper margins each
									armed with three pairs of long, distant, movable spines and with five subapical
									spurs, two on inner and three on outer side, the usual lower inner one absent, the
									upper one as long as basal joint of tarsus.
								Hebard (1915) recognizes five species of the genus, all tropical or
									subtropical in distribution. One of these occurs in Florida.

								
									Fig. 235. Hygronemobius alleni, X 4. a,
										male; b, female; c, outline of hind tibia;
											d, of ovipositor. (After Hebard.)
								

								
									329. HYGRONEMOBIUS ALLENI
										(Morse), 1905, 21. Allen's Ground Cricket.

									Body short, stout, somewhat depressed. Beneath brown; above fuscous finely
										maculate with brown; maxillary palpi dark; hind femora with three transverse
										fuscous bars on apical three-fifths, the base brown with numerous narrow oblique
										fuscous stripes. Antennæ about three times as long as body, very slender.
										Tegmina of male covering two-thirds of abdomen, their tips subtruncate; of
										female minute, lateral pads almost concealed by pronotum. Wings absent.
										Ovipositor compressed, feebly curved, the tip slightly lanceolate and very
										finely crenulate above. Other characters as above given. Length of body, ♂,
										5--6, ♀, 6; of hind femora, ♂, 4.5, ♀, 5; of ovipositor, 4 mm. (Fig.
										235.)
								

								Miami, Fla. (Hebard). This little cricket is a submaritime
									species known from the United States only from a series taken at Miami, Fla. by
									Hebard who says (1915, 195) : "They were found March 15 on the black soil and
									among drift in a mangrove swamp which at high tide was under more than a foot of
									water. The series was taken when the tide was out. At the time the weather was
									cool and the individuals were not rapid in their movements  but were difficult to capture owing to the environment, their sombre
									coloration and their habit of hiding under the drift or the sodden mangrove
									leaves."
								Morse's types were taken July 13 at Moraine Cay, Bahama Islands by Dr. G. M.
									Allen who furnished Morse the following notes regarding its habits: 
										"This interesting little cricket was found abundantly along the edge of a
											mangrove swamp that extended for some distance out from the shore. On
											approaching this swamp from the landward side my attention was attracted by a
											faint but continuous cricket-like note which seemed to come from all about me.
											After a careful search among the black roots of the mangroves and the
											water-soaked leaves at their bases, I found numbers of the little insects.
											They were extremely quick and agile, and although it was easy enough to see
											them as they leaped aside at my approach, they immediately became invisible on
											alighting, so closely did they harmonize in color with the dark sticks and
											leaves. In this thick undergrowth the use of a net was practically out of the
											question, even if I could have been quick enough to sweep up the active little
											creatures. I found, however, that I could easily drive two or three at a time
											onto a sheet of newspaper that I spread on the sodden surface of the swamp,
											and with a slow but steady motion a wide-mouthed bottle could be brought above
											a resting insect and clapped over him before he could escape."
									
								
							

							
								III. ANUROGRYLLUS
									Saussure, 1877, 283. (Gr., "without" + "tail" + "cricket.")

								Robust crickets of medium or large size, in our species having the body sparsely
									and finely pubescent; head subglobose, vertical, the occiput very convex; eyes
									rather small, situated each side of antennal pits; ocelli small, the median one
									narrowly elliptical; disk of pronotum slightly narrower than head, subquadrate,
									rounded into the lateral lobes, the latter with lower margin oblique, its front
									angle obtuse, hind one rounded; tegmina about as long as abdomen and furnished
									with a tympanum, male; wings variable in length; front tibiæ with an oblong-oval
									tympanum on outer face; hind femora strongly dilated, longer than the combined
									tibiæ and tarsi; hind tibiæ armed with two rows of stout, immovable spines and
									three pairs of subapical spurs; anal cerci long, very slender, feebly tapering.
									Other characters as given in generic key. One widely distributed tropical species
									occurs in the southern states.

								
									330. ANUROGRYLLUS MUTICUS
										(DeGeer), 1773, 520. Short-tailed Cricket.

									Size medium, form robust. Nearly uniform pale brownish-yellow; occiput often
										tinged with fuscous; tegmina in part dusky; lower front angle of pronotum often
										very pale. Disk of pronotum subquadrate, wider than long, with an impressed
										median line, feebly narrowed in front, male, 
										sides subparallel, female. Tegmina of female covering one-half to two-thirds of
										abdomen. Wings usually absent, male, often exceeding the abdomen, female.
										Ovipositor not visible. Other characters as above given. Length of body, ♂,
										12--16, ♀, 17; of pronotum, ♂ and ♀, 3.5; of tegmina, ♂, 12--17, ♀, 11.5; of
										hind femora, ♂ and ♀, 10.8--11.2 mm.
								

								Tappahannock, Va., June 9 (Fox). A tropical or subtropical form
									occurring in the United States mainly along the Atlantic coast from New Jersey
									south and southwest to southern Florida, Louisiana and Victoria, Texas, and also
									in the West Indies, Mexiico, Columbia and Guiana. In Florida it has been recorded
									from Jacksonville, Lawtey, Gulf Hammock, DeLand and Miami. At the latter place
									Hebard trapped a single male in a molasses jar.
								Caudell (1904g) records that as early as 1887 they were reported as
									doing much damage about Jena, La., to cotton, sweet and Irish potatoes, peas,
									strawberries and tobacco, his correspondent writing that "their holes in the
									ground are scattered promiscously from a few inches to several feet apart, the
									burrows being seldom over a foot deep in the uplands but much deeper in the swamps
									where the subsoil was softer. The insects are seldom visible in day and do their
									cutting at night, taking all they want down in the ground, where they eat as they
									please or feed their young ones. They appear to go in colonies and we find that
									rapid cultivation, large flocks of poultry and numerous birds are necessary to
									keep them in check." In 1903 specimens were sent in to Washington from Beech
									Island, S. Car. which had been taken in cotton fields where they burrow to a depth
									of 18 inches, lining the holes with shreds of cotton leaves and in so doing
									destroying the young cotton for several feet in the row. The young were found in
									these burrows in June.
								Manee (1908, 461) states that at Southern Pines, N. Car. the
									"mounds" of this cricket are very common and are "built near some small weed,
									whose leaves furnish the wide but shallow horizontal chamber," the latter
									connecting with one or more perpendicular or oblique tunnels which serve as
									'retreat shafts' when the insect is disturbed." This is probably the species
									mentioned by Scudder (1894c) under the name Gryllodes sp. as taken by Maynard near Jacksonville, Fla. in similar
									burrows.
								At Clarendon, Va. Allard (1916a) found A. muticus
									in numbers in early June in a pine grove where they occurred upon the trunks of
									the pines from one to eight feet above the ground. The males stridulated only on
									warm evenings, beginning about sundown and continuing in the early part of the
									night. "The trill is loud, continuous, high-pitched, much resembling that of an
										
									Oecanthus." Fox (1917) reports that about
									Tappahannock, Va. they are "frequent in fields and pastures and along fence rows,
									nocturnal in habits, singing at or close to the mouth of the burrow."
								The following names are now regarded as synonyms of A muticus:
										Acheta guadeloupensis
									Fab. (1793, 32) ; Gryllus angustulus
									F. Walker (1869, 27) and Gryllodes clarazianus and
										G. caribeus
									Sauss. (1874, 412, 413).
							

							
								IV. GRYLLODES
									Saussure, 1874, 409. (Gr., "a leaper.")

								Medium sized crickets of slender form having the head short, occiput not strongly
									convex; antennæ very slender, twice as long as body, the basal joint large,
									compressed, as wide or wider than the inter-antennal protuberance; pronotum short,
									transverse, about one-half wider than long, hind margin of lateral lobes very
									oblique; tegmina variable in length, in our species much shorter than abdomen, the
									mediastinal vein undivided, female, one-branched, male; front tibiæ without a
									tympanum on inner face; hind tibiæ with five or six spines on each margin, the
									inner middle and lower subapical spurs subequal; ovipositor straight, very
									slender, longer than hind femora.
								Kirby (1906, 40) recognized 56 species as belonging to the genus,
									most of them tropical in distribution. Only one has become established in the
									eastern United States.

								
									331. GRYLLODES SIGILLATUS
										(F. Walker), 1869, 46. Decorated Cricket.

									Form depressed, slender, pubescent. General color pale brownish-yellow
										mottled and banded with dark brown; head with a cross-bar between the eyes,
										another, less distinct, at hind border of occiput, and a vertical stripe between
										the antennæ, dark brown; pronotum with a basal and median brown cross-bar, the
										former curving forward onto lateral lobes, the latter interrupted; tegmina pale
										brown; legs mottled with dark brown; abdomen in great part brown mottled with
										yellow. Head obliquely depressed. Tegmina of male covering half the abdomen, the
										stridulating organ large, tips broadly rounded; of female very short lateral
										pads, with tips of both dorsal and costal field obliquely truncate. Wings
										absent. Legs slender. Length of body, ♂, 14--16, ♀, 15--21; of pronotum, ♂ and
										♀, 3--3.5; of tegmina, ♂, 5--6, ♀, 1.7--2.3; of hind femora, ♂, 9.5--10, ♀,
										11--13; of ovipositor, 12-16 mm.
								

								Miama and Big Pine Key, Fla., Sept. 25--Oct. 4 (Davis) ;
									Dunedin, Fla., Jan. 27, nymph (W. S. B.) Recorded also from
									numerous stations in southern Florida and on the keys, Lakeland being the most
									northern. The first record for the United States was that of R. & H.
										(1905) from Miami, where Hebard found them in numbers in February beneath
									bricks and between stones. "The  males emit a shrill
									sound easily distinguished from that of Gryllus luctuosus by its
									higher pitch and the longer duration of the stridulation. When exposed it waves
									its long slender antennæ about continually." Later (1914c) they state that "at Key
									West in July it was everywhere common about the town and that, with the aid of a
									flash-light, individuals were easily taken when carefully approached and suddenly
									seized; this was apparently due to the insects being blinded by the light for they
									are certainly the most active gryllid found within the United States."
								Davis (1914) records them as occurring in a house on Big Pine Key
									where "they were reported as doing some damage by eating clothing, etc. At night
									when the lights were out they would come out of their hiding and the males would
									sing their cheerful and very energetic song."
								The species is tropical and practically cosmopolitan, Walker's type coming from
									Australia. It is said to be very common in Cuba and the Bahamas. Caudell
										(Psyche, 1908, 96) has recorded it as appearing in countless numbers in
									the hot-houses of the U. S. Department of Agriculture at Washington, D. C., where
									they did considerable damage to various seedlings which they cut off near the
									ground. The Gryllus pustulipes
									F. Walker (1869, 51), the Gryllodes poeyi
									Sauss. (1874, 420) and the Miogryllus transversalis
									Scudd. (1901b, 257) are synonyms of G.
									sigillatus.
							

							
								V. MIOGRYLLUS
									Saussure, 1877, 194. (Gr., "less" + "cricket.")

								Crickets of small or medium size, the species differing from those of Gryllus in the usual absence or extremely inconspicuous nature of
									the tympanum on inner side of fore tibiæ; simple or one-branched mediastinal nerve
									of the tegmina; strictly longitudinal course of the veins on the dorsal field of
									the female tegmina ; shortness of the hind tibiæ which are only two-thirds as long
									as the hind femora and armed above on each side with only four or five spines, and
									in the usual striped or banded summit of the head.
								The tegmina and wings vary much in length in the same species but the
									short-winged forms are by far the more common. In macropterous individuals the
									wings are two and one-half or more times the length of tegmina, while in
									brachypterous ones they are represented by mere pads. One of the five species
									recognized by Hebard (1915c) occurs in the Eastern States.

								
									332. MIOGRYLLUS VERTICALIS
										(Serville), 1839, 343.

									Size large for the genus but smaller than most forms of Gryllus; form robust. Color exceedingly variable, ranging from dark
										brown to almost wholly black; head usually shining black with a narrow yellow
										stripe  above each eye and two shorter ones on
										middle of occiput; palpi yellowish, the apical joint dusky; antennæ dark brown,
										paler at base; pronotum blackish, mottled with paler; lateral lobes piceous
										above, the lower third or more dull yellow; tegmina reddish-brown to fuscous,
										the lateral field darker; abdomen dark brown, often with a narrow paler median
										line. Head large, strongly convex, wider than front margin of pronotum. Last
										joint of maxillary palpi obliquely truncate. Pronotum two-thirds or more wider
										than long, its sides subparallel, front margin feebly concave, hind one
										truncate. Tegmina of female usually but little longer than pronotum, scarcely
										attingent, covering about one-third of abdomen, the inner apical margin of
										dorsal field obliquely rounded. Tegmina of male covering three-fourths or more
										of abdomen, broadly overlapping, their tips rounded. Hind femora very stout.
										Tympanum on outer face of fore tibiæ elongate-oval, nearly one-fourth the length
										of tibiæ; in the rare long-winged form present and nearly as large on both
										faces. Ovipositor straight, as long as hind femora, its tip feebly enlarged.
										Length of body, ♂, 10--16, ♀, 11--17; of pronotum, ♂, 1.9--3.1, ♀, 2.1--3.2; of
										tegmina, ♂, 3.6--7.6, ♀, 2.2--4; of hind femora, ♂, 6.8--10.4, ♀, 7.4--11; of
										ovipositor, 7.2--12 mm. (Fig. 236.)
								

								Southern third of Indiana, April 18--July 10; Dunedin and Lake Okeechobee, Fla.
									Dec. 3--Mch. 2 (W. S. B.) ; Mobile, Ala., Sept. 14 (Loding). In southern Indiana this species, resembling in general
									appearance a large Nemobius, has been taken in Franklin, Clark, Posey, Knox,
									Gibson and Crawford counties, where it occurs on dry wooded hillsides beneath flat
									stones and logs. It seems to like best places devoid of grass and other
									vegetation. In that region it probably reaches maturity about the middle of June,
									as it seems to be most abundant by the last of that month, when quite a number of
									specimens were taken in the vicinity of Wyandotte Cave.

								
									Fig. 236. Female. X 1.3. (Original.)
								

								The Florida specimens above mentioned were nymphs and were taken beneath boards
									along the margins of ponds and lakes. Elsewhere in that State it has been recorded
									from a number of stations between Jacksonville and Homestead and also from Key
									West.
								This species is the Miogryllus saussurei
									Scudd. (1877, 35) of most American authors, myself included (1903,
									442). Hebard (1915c) has placed saussurei as a
									synonym of Gryllus verticalis, which was based on a long-winged
									female from Cayenne, French Guiana. This was done without seeing Serville's type
									and the placement is therefore open to question, though, judging from  Serville's description, probably correct. Other
									synonyms of verticalis as given by Hebard are Gryllus laplatœ
									Sauss. (1874, 408) from Buenos Aires, Gryllodes
										guyennensis
									Sauss. (1877, 384) from Surinam and Miogryllus
										oklahomœ
									Caudell (1902, 90) from Perkins, Okla., the last named synonym being
									based upon an almost uniform black color variety.
								If these synonyms of M. verticalis are correct the range of the
									species embraces most of the American continent. In the United States its known
									range extends from Staten Island, N. Y. west to Nebraska, Kansas and Oklahoma and
									south and southwest to Key West, Fla. and southern Texas. But one macropterous
									individual, a female taken by Brimley at Raleigh, N. Car., is recorded from this
									country and but three others besides the type have been noted elsewhere.
								Davis (1909b) notes the habits of M. verticalis as
									follows : "At Lakehurst, N. Jer. it is found under dead leaves and other objects
									lying on the ground. My attention was first called to the insect by hearing the
									males stridulating at night. Their song is a slow, zee, repeated
									at intervals of several seconds. Later the females were also found. At Lakehurst
									and on Staten Island, several individuals were taken on sandy ground. It reaches
									maturity in June. Individuals of this species of cricket differ markedly in the
									development of the hearing organ on the inner side of the fore tibiæ. In two of
									the examples collected this organ is totally absent, in four it is slightly
									developed, and in one it is slightly developed on the inner surface of the right
									tibiæ, but absent on the same surface of the left leg."
								Allard (1911a) describes its habits at Thompson's Mills, Ga., in
									part as follows: "It is a ground-dwelling species and keeps itself well concealed
									beneath the matted leaves and grass of gardens and orchards. Its notes are very
									brief, high-pitched musical trills, tzeee-tzeee-tzeee, with
									brief intermissions. One individual delivered from 38 to 39 trills in a minute.
									This cricket may be heard in stridulation very early in the morning and more or
									less throughout the day and at night. It is rather difficult to locate and capture
									one by its notes, for these are quickly silenced by one's approach. This cricket
									is very lively, and if uncovered leaps about vigorously. Its light brown
									coloration makes it very inconspicuous among the similarly colored leaves and
									soil."
								Isely (1905, 248) says that the black form, M.
										oklahomœ Caud. is the first cricket to reach maturity at Wichita, Kansas,
									adults being taken on May 22. "In a few days they became very  numerous and the males' stridulation could be heard on all sides in
									the afternoon and evening. They were especially abundant in thick short dead grass
									on a hillside." He found some in small perpendicular burrows from one to two
									inches deep, and others beneath stones. No specimens were taken after June 23,
									though specimens of the pale form M. saussurei were found on
									August 8.
							

							
								VI. GRYLLUS
									Linnæus, 1758, 425. (L., "cricket.") THE FIELD AND HOUSE CRICKETS.

								
									"The voice of the crickets, heard at noon from deep in the grass, allies day to
										night. It is a midnight sound heard at noon, a midday sound heard at
											midnight."-Thoreau.
								

								This, the typical genus of the family Gryllidæ, comprises crickets of medium or
									large size and robust form, having the head large, subglobose, usually slightly
									broader than pronotum; eyes rounded, prominent; antennæ very slender, setaceous,
									longer than the body; pronotum broader than long, its disk rounded into the
									lateral lobes, which are longer than deep, with lower margin oblique or feebly
									curved, the front and hind angles rounded; tegmina and wings variable in length,
									the former with large shrilling organ in male; hind femora very much enlarged,
									shorter than tibiæ and tarsi united; hind tibiæ armed above on each side with five
									to eight large stout movable spines and at apex with three pairs of unequal spurs;
									basal segment of hind tarsi stout, armed above with a row of short spines on each
									margin, its apex terminating in two stout spurs, the inner one the longer; second
									joint very small, compressed; apical segment slender, about half as long as the
									basal one; anal cerci nearly as long as hind femora, slender, bristly, tapering;
									ovipositor as long as or longer than the hind femora, variable in length in the
									different forms, its extreme apex feebly enlarged, not serrulate.
								To this genus belong those dark colored thick-bodied insects known as house and
									field crickets. The latter are the best known examples of the family Gryllidæ and
									in Indiana are abundant from June 1st till after heavy frosts, beneath logs,
									boards, stones, and especially beneath rails in the corners of the old-fashioned
									and rapidly disappearing Virginia rail fences.
								Regarding the general habits of the field crickets Bruner (1886,
										194) has written: "Usually most of our North American Grylli live singly
									or in pairs in burrows which they dig for themselves. These are used as retreats
									during the day time and serve as shelter from ordinary inclemencies of weather.
									These  burrows are generally forsaken about
									mid-summer for some sort of above-ground shelter. From this time on, until fall,
									they appear to be more social and live in colonies under various sorts of rubbish.
									Grain shocks are a favorite haunt for them and since twine has been used for
									binding, the crickets have been quite troublesome by cutting the bands. During
									late summer and fall the females commence preparations for the continuance of
									their kind, by thrusting their long, slender ovipositors into the loose soil and
									dropping their eggs. These sometimes hatch the same year, but, as a rule, lie over
									until the following spring. The young generally live above ground, where they hide
									among fallen leaves, grasses and other debris, though sometimes they also creep
									into chinks and crevices in the earth."
								The remarks of Bruner apply in Indiana mostly to the form luctuosus, one of our largest and only social field cricket. Here the
									young of G. pennsylvanicus and vernalis are,
									for the most part, hatched in autumn and survive the winter in the nymph stages,
									while G. domesticus, the house cricket, passes the winter either
									as adult or nymph.
								The synonymy of the American forms of this genus is greatly confused, due largely
									to the fact that foreign writers have attempted to monograph the genus with but a
									limited number of specimens at hand; and again to the fact that the different
									forms, especially the males, are very difficult to separate.
								Lutz (1908) after studying carefully the variations in length of
									tegmina, wings and ovipositor of a large number of forms of Gryllus from all parts of the world concluded that "species in an any way
									natural sense do not exist in the genus." R. & H. (1915c) came to
									about the same conclusion regarding the native American forms, placing them all
									under the one name, Gryllus assimilis
									Fab. (1775, 280) described from Jamaica, qualifying this placement,
									however, by stating (p. 299): "We have found that in general certain types do
									predominate over certain regions. These constitute the bases of many of the
									supposed species but in our opinion should be characterized by symbols rather than
									varietal names, owing to their complexity and the evident fact that none of these
									are distinct, either specifically or as geographic races, and really show only the
									various phases resultant from varied environmental conditions."
								There is no doubt but that the different forms of native Gryllus intergrade and merge, just as do those of Nomotettix
										cristatus, Nemobius fasciatus and numerous other forms of Orthoptera for
										 which varietal or racial names have been retained
									by recent American authors. Since the characters of all such races, varieties, or
									even species, for that matter, are resultant in great part from "variable
									environment," and since the grouping or placing of any series of closely related
									forms is largely a matter of personal opinion or viewpoint of the worker, and as
									names are more readily grasped and remembered than symbols, I have retained the
									older names of the more distinct forms of Gryllus as trinomials.
									The student may either use them as such and call them variants, varieties or forms
									of assimilis, or discard them altogether and lump his native
									field crickets under the one name Gryllus assimilis as R. &
									H. and Morse have done, a procedure which Piers (1918, 338) terms a
									"simple solution of the Gordian knot."

								
									KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES AND VARIETIES OF GRYLLUS.

									a. Black species, the tegmina and parts of the body sometimes dull
										yellowish or reddish-brown; head never with distinct blackish crossbars; first
										joint of antennæ not projecting beyond front of head. (ASSIMILIS81).
									b. b. Hind femora wholly or in great part pale reddish-brown; tegmina,
										cerci and legs usually wholly or in great part dull reddish-brown.
									c. c. Larger, length of body, male and female, 20 or more mm.; hind
										tibiæ with seven or eight spines on each upper margin. 333a.
												FIRMUS.
									cc.  Smaller, less than 16 mm.; hind tibiæ with only five or six spines
										on each margin. 333b. SCUDDERIANUS.
									bb. Hind femora black or fuscous with only the basal third reddish-brown
										beneath; tegmina and legs rarely reddish-brown.
									d. Ovipositor nearly or fully half as long again as hind femora, 16 or
										more mm. in length; head of male swollen, distinctly wider than front of
										pronotum. 333c. LUCTUOSUS.
									dd. Ovipositor less than half as long again as hind femora, rarely over
										14 mm. in length; head of male but little if any wider than front of
										pronotum.
									e. Color in fresh specimens not shining black, but with a very fine
										grayish pubescence or "bloom:" tegmina of female with their inner edges either
										overlapping or attingent their full length; length of ovipositor 13--14 mm. 333d. PENNSYLVANICUS.
									ee. Color shining black, tegmina rarely piceous or dull brownish-yellow;
										tegmina of female with the basal halves overlapping or attingent, the apical
										halves (always in vernalis, rarely in neglectus) separated by a wide V-shaped notch, (Fig. 238.)
								
								81The typical form of
										Gryllus assimilis is subtronical and occurs in the United
									States only along the coast of Southern California. The form integer
									Scudder (I9oIa, 268) has been recorded by Caudell from near
									Washington ,D. C., and by Kostir (on Caudell's determination) from Cedar Point,
									Ohio. As Scudder described it from the Pacific States and R. & H.
										(1915c) restrict its range to the mountains of the arid portions of the
									southwestern United States and California, it is not included in the key. It is
									distinguished from pennsylvanicus by Scudder by having the
									pronotum nearly twice as broad as long.



								


								
									f. Ovipositor scarcely if any longer than hind femora; tegmina of female
										strongly reticulate. 333e. VERNALIS.
									ff. Ovipositor nearly one-third longer than hind femora; tegmina of
										female less strongly reticulate. 333f. NEGLECTUS.
									aa. Straw-colored species; head with distinct dark brown or blackish
										cross-bars; first joint of antennæ projecting slightly beyond front of head. 334. DOMESTICUS.
								

								
									333a. GRYLLUS ASSIMILIS FIRMUS
										Scudder, 1902a, 295.

									Size very large for the genus; form robust. Color largely piceous, head and
										pronotum black or piceous; mouth parts and lower half of lateral lobes
										reddish-brown; tegmina a nearly uniform dull reddish-brown, often with a narrow
										pale humeral stripe; femora dark reddish-brown, usually more or less tinged with
										fuscous. Head large, tumid, vertex prominent. Disk of pronotum one-half wider
										than long, hind margin slightly convex, median impressed line faint, lower
										margin of lateral lobes almost straight, its front angle evident, obtuse.
										Tegmina covering three-fourths or more of abdomen, female, as long as abdomen,
										male, their tips narrowly rounded. Wings usually shorter than tegmina, sometimes
										exceeding the abdomen. Inner apical spur of basal segment of hind tarsi very
										short, two-thirds as long as last segment. Ovipositor one-third or more longer
										than hind femora. Length of body, ♂ and ♀, 20--29; of pronotum, ♂, 4--5.2, ♀,
										4.5--5.5; of tegmina, ♂, 14--17, ♀, 12--13; of hind femora, ♂, 14--16, ♀,
										14--17; of ovipositor, 19--23 mm.
								

								Gainesville, Dunedin and Ft. Myers, Fla. Oct. 11--Feb. 24 (W. S.
										B.); Agricultural College, Miss., Dec. (Weed). About
									Dunedin this large field cricket occurs sparingly throughout the winter beneath
									cover in old orange groves, gardens and dry sandy fields. Under the names firmus and scudderianus it has been recorded by
									other collectors from numerous stations throughout the mainland and southern keys
									of Florida. At Key West "they were found in and near their holes situated in the
									short heavy grasses growing on the scant soil near depressions-" R. & H.
										(1914c, 411) speak of the song of G. firmus as a "loud,
									sharp, vigorous chirping," and of that of G. luctuosus (rubens)
									as a "slower stridulation noticeably different from the hearty chirp of G. firmus."
								One of Scudder's types of G. a firmus was from Brookville, Ind.
									and the form ranges from that place and from southwestern Ohio (Kostir) southeastward and south to North Carolina, Key West and Texas. It
									merges gradually into the smaller scudderianus Sauss., from
									which it is mainly distinguished by the characters given in key. Scudder states
									that about one-third of his individuals of firmus were
									macropterous, but only short-winged specimens have been seen by me.


								

								
									333b. GRYLLUS ASSIMILIS SCUDDERIANUS
										Saussure, 1874, 402. Scudder's Field Cricket.

									Size small to medium; form rather slender. Color much as in firmus, tegmina usually paler reddish-brown; hind femora sometimes with
										apical half of inner and outer faces blackish; abdomen shining black. Head but
										little if any wider than pronotum, the latter with hind margin truncate, lower
										margin of lateral lobes shorter and more curved than in firmus. Tegmina covering about two-thirds of abdomen, female, or more,
										male. Wings very narrow, shorter than tegmina. Hind femora proportionally
										slender. Hind tibiæ with dorsal and median inner apical spurs subequal in
										length. Inner terminal spur of basal segment of hind tarsi slender, only half
										the length of last segment. Ovipositor longer than body, one-half longer than
										hind femora. Length of body, ♂ and ♀, 14--15; of pronotum, 3.5--4; of tegmina,
										♂, 8--9, ♀, 7--8; of hind femora, ♂, 9--10, ♀, 10.5-11.5; of ovipositor,
										14.5--16.5 mm.
								

								Lake, Marshall, Fulton and Vigo counties, Ind. (W. S. B.). This
									is the G. arenaceus of my former work (1903, 443). It is rather
									plentiful in the sand dune region of northern Indiana, where it occurs in
									September and October beneath cover in dry bare sandy places. The reddish-brown
									hue of tegmina, legs and cerci usually contrasts strongly with the deep black of
									pronotum and abdomen. R. & H. (1915c) have made firmus a synonym of scudderianus, but as Saussure gives
									the measurements of the latter as length of body 14, hind femora 9 and ovipositor
									14.5 mm., I believe that his name does not rightfully belong to as large a varient
									as firmus, though the two forms probably merge, through C. rubens
									Scudd. (1902a, 295) which R. & H. also place under scudderianus.
								The range of the form scudderianus is open to question.
									Saussure's types were from "1' Amerique Septentrionale" without more definite
									locality. Scudder considered it a form of abbreviatus, i e., luctuosus. If rubens be taken as a connecting
									link overlapping scudderianus in the north and firmus in the south. the distribution of scudderianus,
									sensu trictu, may be said to be limited to the sandy districts of th northern and
									eastern states. As arenaceus it has been recorded by Kostir from
									Cedar Point, Ohio, and reported by Hubbell (Ms.) from Cheboygan Co., Mich.

								
									333c. GRYLLUS ASSIMILIS LUCTUOSUS
										Serville, 1839, 335. Common Field Cricket.

									Size medium to large for the genus; form very robust. Black, often tinged
										with rusty brown; head and pronotum shining black; tegmina usually a dark
										reddish- or fuscous-brown, sometimes pale brownish-yellow; hind femora black or
										dark reddish-brown, the basal third of under  and
										inner sides almost always brick-red, more prominently so in male. Pronotum
										one-half or more wider than long. Tegmina usually covering three-fourths or more
										of abdomen, female, all of abdomen, male; sometimes shorter in latter sex. Wings
										either reduced to mere pads (abbreviatus) or fully developed
										and reaching middle of ovipositor. Hind femora very stout. Hind tibiæ usually
										armed with six spines on outer margin, their upper and middle inner spurs
										slender and subequal. Length of body, ♂, 18--20, ♀, 18--22; of pronotum, ♂ and
										♀, 4.5--5; of tegmina, ♂, 12--14, ♀, 11--13; of hind femora, ♂, 11--13, ♀,
										10.5--13.5; of ovipositor, 17--21 mm.
								

								In late summer and early autumn this is the most common field cricket in Indiana.
									Here it is represented during winter by the eggs alone. In southern Indiana these
									hatch in late May or early June and the mature males appear about July 1st, but in
									the central and northern parts of the State the first males appear about a month
									later. This large field cricket is, in habits, nocturnal, omnivorous, and a
									cannibal. Avoiding the light of day, it ventures forth, as soon as darkness has
									fallen, in search of food, and all appears to be fish which comes to its net. Of
									fruit, vegetables, grass and carrion, it seems equally fond and does not hesitate
									to prey upon a weaker brother when opportunity offers. I have often surprised them
									feasting on the bodies of their companions, and of about 40 imprisoned together in
									a box, at the end of a week but six were living. The heads, wings and legs of
									their dead companions were all that remained to show that the weaker had succumbed
									to the stronger--that the fittest, and in this case the fattest, had survived in
									the deadly struggle for existence.
								This is the G. abbreviatus Serv. of most authors, including
									myself (1903, 435). Serville described two forms, luctuosus on
									page 335 and abbreviatus on page 336. The latter is now
									considered only the short-winged form of luctuosus, though
										McNeill (1891, 5) says it is his opinion that abbreviatus is distinct and that luctuosus is probably
									the long-winged form of pennsylvanicus Burm. The short-winged
									form (of luctuosus) is by far the more common in Indiana, only a
									few long-winged individuals having been noted.
								The range of G. a. luctuosus, including the short-winged abbreviatus, is a wide one, extending from New England and Ontario
									west to Manitoba and Colorado, and south to southern Florida, Louisiana and Texas.
									In Florida it has been taken by me at Sanford, Key West, LaBelle, Ft. Myers and
									Dunedin, and recorded by others, mostly under the name G. rubens
									Scudd., from numerous other points, both on the mainland and keys. About  Dunedin it is the most common field cricket noted,
									both adults and nymphs occurring throughout the winter, the long-winged forms,
									there frequent, being often attracted to light. Hebard captured them in numbers on
									Feb. 9 beneath boards and stones along the main street of Miami, where "after dark
									they were stridulating at a great rate."
								In Ontario Walker (1904, 250) says that adults begin to appear about
									the second week in August and in September and October become very numerous and
									congregate in large numbers under every chunk, log or board, under the loose bark
									of old logs or in burrows in the sand. Late in the season they may be seen by
									hundreds sunning themselves on fences close to the ground.
								About Moline, Ill., according to McNeill (1891), "the eggs of abbreviatus hatch in July and the first adults appear as early as
									the second week in August. During every stage of life they are social, feeding
									together, seeking shelter in company and when egg laying time comes, in October,
									the females collect by hundreds in some suitable locality, an abandoned or little
									used roadway suits them well, and each lays several hundred eggs in an irregular
									mass. After this duty is performed their business on this planet seems to be
									finished and they succumb to the cold, none surviving the winter. The eggs do not
									hatch until the following July, or if in rare cases they do they probably perish
									with cold."
								Allard (1911a, 157) says that about Washington abbreviatus "not infrequently takes up its quarters in the house,
									announcing its presence by its stridulations which are intermittent chirps,
									possibly louder than the chirp of G. pennsylvanicus."

								
									333d. GRYLLUS ASSIMILIS PENNSYLVANICUS
										Burmeister, 1838, 734. Pennsylvania Field Cricket.

									Size medium; form broad. Head of male not so swollen as in abbreviatus, slightly wider than pronotum. Pronotum proportionally a
										little wider and shorter, the length contained in breadth nearly 1.6 times; hind
										margin slightly sinuate, median impressed line plainly visible on anterior half.
										Tegmina varying in color from deep black to smoky or grayish-brown, rarely a
										dull reddish-brown, often with a yellowish-brown line along the humeral angles,
										their inner edges straight, overlapping or attingent their full length; those of
										female reaching nearly to tip of abdomen in short-winged form, slightly
										exceeding the tip in long-winged form; those of male reaching tip of abdomen in
										both forms. Wings either narrow and shorter than tegmina or extending
										considerably beyond tegmina in the form of tail-like projections. Pronotum, legs
										and under side of body in freshly matured specimens with a minute grayish
										pubescence or "bloom" which becomes abraded with age, leaving these parts
										shining black. Hind femora short, stout, its average length contained in that of
										ovipositor 1.1 
										
											Fig. 237. Short-winged female. (After Lugger.)
										 times. Length of body, ♂ and ♀, 17--17.5; of pronotum, ♂, 3--3.5, ♀,
										3.5--4.2; of tegmina, ♂, 11.5, ♀, short-winged form, 10, long-winged form, 12.4;
										of hind femora, ♂, 10--12.2, ♀, 10.5--12.4; of ovipositor, 13--14 mm. Width of
										pronotum, ♂ and ♀, 6.3 mm. (Fig. 237.)
								

								From luctuosus this form may be distinguished by the shorter
									body, less swollen head of male and especially by the short ovipositor, which in
									Indiana specimens ranges between 13 and 14 mm. in length. The main distinguishing
									characters between pennsylvanicus and vernalis
									are set out under the latter form. Another, very noticeable in the field in
									spring, is the dull grayish tinge of fresh specimens of pennsylvanicus, especially on the legs and pronotum, the whole body of vernalis being shining black.
								In Indiana pennsylvanicus is also everywhere a common cricket
									and for the most part survives the winter in the nymph stage, the young, on the
									approach of cold weather, making for themselves cone-shaped cavities an inch or
									two across the top and about as deep, in the mold beneath decaying logs and
									rubbish. Sometimes the margins of these burrows are surrounded by fragments of
									grass stems and pieces of decaying leaves. In warm, sheltered localities, some
									individuals evidently reach maturity in late autumn or early winter; a full grown,
									freshly moulted female having been taken in a greenhouse in Marion County, on
									December 14th. The males begin to pass their final moult in central Indiana about
									May 15th, and from then on through June and July the open woods pastures and the
									angles of old rail fences echo with the music of their song. The young hatch in
									July and August, and after the second or third moult form their winter abiding
									places, while the adults perish with the coming of the hoar frost. The long winged
									form is much less common than the short winged and is seldom met with in the
									field; but may often be found about electric and other lights during the summer
									nights. However, on two occasions in June, I have taken a long winged male in
									company with two short winged females beneath logs.
								The range of the form or variant G. a. pennsylvanicus is even
									wider than that of luctuosus extending from Prince Edward  Island, Nova Scotia and New England west to British
									Columbia and California and south and southwest to southern Florida, eastern Texas
									and New Mexico. R. & H. (1915c, 302) say that "it is the dominant
									variant of the species in the well watered regions of temperate North
									America."
								In Florida I have taken pennsylvanicus at Ormond, Sanford,
									LaBelle, Sarasota and Dunedin. Elsewhere in the State it is recorded definitely
									only from Orange City Junction by Caudell (1905) and Miami by
										Hebard (1915b). About Ormond it was the only field cricket noted in
									March and April, while around Dunedin both adults and nymphs are fairly plentiful
									from December to April.
								Of pennsylvanicus in Ontario Walker says (1904,
										251) : "The chirp of the adult is first heard about the third week in
									May, the last toward the end of July. They are numerous about midsummer, when the
									fields and pastures resound with their song. They are very difficult to obtain,
									for they are not gregarious like abbreviatus, but usually occur
									in pairs hidden in the rubbish under some thick tuft of grass or weeds or under
									the edge of a stone. It requires the utmost care and patience to trace the song to
									its source, but if this is done successfully one is often rewarded by finding the
									female as well as the male." Of its habits in the south Allard (1911c,
										147) says: 
										"Careful studies of a number of musical insects have shown the writer that
											very marked differences of stridulation may characterize certain species in
											different parts of their range. This has been found especially true of Gryllus pennsylvanicus. The sprightly intermittent chirps of
											the New England individuals no more resemble the weak, continuous Oecanthus- like trill of the northern Georgia individuals than the
											notes of Oecanthus niveus resemble the very dissimilar trill
											of Oecanthus latipennis. Not only is the stridulation very
											dissimilar, but the general habits are unlike. In New England Gryllus pennsylvanicus fairly swarms in grass fields and pastures
											during autumn, chirping everywhere in plain sight. In northern Georgia this
											cricket becomes exceedingly abundant in March, April and May. In this region
											it is very shy and secluded in its habits, stridulating beneath matted leaves,
											clods of earth, and grass in fields, and oftentimes in deep burrows in
											pastures. It is rarely seen unless deliberately uncovered and unearthed. By
											midsummer its stridulations are rarely heard."
									
								

								
									333e. GRYLLUS ASSIMILIS VERNALIS nomen. nov.82 Spring Field
										Cricket.

									Size small for the genus. Female short-bodied, robust, male more slender.
										Nearly uniform black, shining; tegmina of female sometimes with a reddish-brown
										tinge at base and along humeral angle; hind femora with lower and inner sides of
										basal third feebly or not at all tinged with 82To replace the name Gryllus americanus of my former work (1903, 433) which was preoccupied
											by the G. americanus
											Drury (1773, 121.)
										 reddish-brown, never with the large reddish-brown
										spot so common in G. luctuosus and pennsylvanicus; cerci and hind tibiæ dark chestnut brown. Head no
										broader than pronotum; vertex prominent, straight, declivent. Disk of pronotum
										about one-third wider than long, median impressed line very distinct on apical
										three-fourths, front margin truncate, hind one slightly sinuate. Tegmina of
										female covering two-thirds of abdomen, overlapping or attingent only on their
										basal halves, the apical halves with inner margin obliquely rounded and
										therefore, in repose, widely separated, Fig. 238. Tegmina of male usually
										covering three-fourths of abdomen, rarely reaching its tip. Wings represented by
										narrow thin scales. Hind femora short, stout. Hind tibiæ armed above on each
										margin with five or six spines. Inner subapical spines of basal joint of hind
										tarsus slender, but little more than one-third the length of apical segment.
										Length of body, ♂, 13--14, ♀, 15--16.5; of pronotum, ♂, 3.5, ♀, 4.2; of tegmina,
										♂, 7--8, ♀, 7.5--8; of hind femora, ♂, 10, ♀, 11; of ovipositor, 10.5--11.5 mm.
										Width of pronotum, ♂, 5, ♀, 5.6 mm. (Fig. 238.)
								
								
									Fig. 238. Gryllus vernalis nom. nov. Female X 1.2.
										(Original.)
								

								This shining black field cricket has been taken in Crawford, Posey, Vigo, Putnam,
									Marion, Marshall, Wells and Lake Counties, Indiana, and probably occurs throughout
									the State. It is here the first species of Gryllus to become mature in the spring,
									the note of the male--the first Orthopteran song of the season--having been heard
									on a number of occasions in the central counties as early as May 5th. The young of
									this species, as well as of G. pennsylvanicus, survive the
									winter as nymphs. In September and October, after passing the second or third
									moult, they seek the shelter of loose bark on log or stump, or crawl beneath chunk
									or rail where they form for themselves small, inverted cone-shaped burrows in the
									earth, in which they abide until spring. Those which attempt to pass the winter
									with only a shelter of bark above them almost always succumb to the changing
									temperatures of that season, but those which choose more wisely a burrowing place
									beneath some half buried log or chunk for the most part survive. The temperature
									of their hibernaculum is much more equable, and the insects becoming sluggish in
									late autumn remain so until called into new activity by the sunshine of spring,
									unless, meanwhile, they fall a prey to some shrew, mouse or other active winter
									insectivorous mammal. They emerge from their hiding places about April 1st, and
									after changing their garb two or three times,  reach
									the mating stage in early May, when the males begin to greet the passer-by with
									their merry chirp.
								Neither this species nor pennsylvanicus are social crickets.
									Sometimes two or three of the young have adjacent burrows beneath the same chunk,
									but more often both they and the adults are solitary. The eggs are laid in June
									and July, and the newly hatched young are to be found in numbers during July and
									August.
								Caudell (1907d, 292) has stated that this form is the same as G. nigra
									Harris (1841, 123), but that form was regarded both by Uhler
										(1862, 152) and Scudder as a synonym of pennsylvanicus
									which Harris did not mention. Moreover, the type of Harris is destroyed and his
									original description is so short and incomplete that no one can tell what species
									he had in hand.83 I
									therefore have retained this as a middle-western variant or form of G. assimilis.
								From pennsylvanicus, with which form vernalis
									was confused until 1903, the latter may be readily separated by its smaller size,
									narrower pronotum, more uniform shining black color, shorter ovipositor, and the
									shape, and position, when at rest, of the female tegmina. The reticulation of the
									dorsal field of these tegmina is more noticeable in vernalis
									than in pennsylvanicus, the main diagonal nerves being closer
									together and the cross nervules more elevated and prominent. Moreover, vernalis reaches maturity in the spring about a fortnight the
									sooner.
								Outside of Indiana, vernalis (as G.
										americanus) has been recorded from Illinois and Texas by Hart (1906,
										91; 1906a, 160) and from Franklin County, Ohio by Mead (1904,
										110). Hart mentions it as "undersized, tegmina wholly black, usually
									divergent in female, peculiarly crinkled," and (1906a) says: "From what I have
									seen of this in Illinois I should think it was clearly distinct."

								
									333f. GRYLLUS ASSIMILIS NEGLECTUS
										Scudder, 1862, 428. Neglected Field Cricket.

									Size small to medium for the genus. Nearly a uniform piceous-black; tegmina
										sometimes black, frequently a light ochraceous brown. Pronotum about one-half
										wider than long. Tegmina of females covering two-thirds or more of abdomen,
										those of male reaching to its extremity. Ovipositor about one-third longer than
										hind femora. Other characters as given in key. Length of body, ♂, 15.5--21, ♀,
										18--23; of pronotum, ♂, 3.2--3.4, ♀, 3.3--4; of tegmina, ♂, 9--11, ♀, 7.5--10.5;
										of hind femora, ♂, 9.4--10.8, ♀, 9.4--11.5; of ovipositor, 12.5--15 mm.
								
								83It was as follows:
									"We have another species with very short or abortive wings; it is entirely of a
									black color and measures six-tenths of an inch in length from the head to the end
									of the body. It may be called Acheta nigra, the black
									cricket."



								


								This form or variant is, according to Scudder, (loc. cit.) the most
									common one in New England. R. & H. (1915c, 302) state that it is
									"found in the northeastern part of the distribution of C.
										assimilis, ranging southward in the high Appalachians to northern Georgia
									and is known from the Piedmont plateau only in Pennsylvania." To this form
										Piers (1918, 343) refers the only form of Gryllus
									found in Nova Scotia and says (p. 352) :  "In the vicinity
											of Halifax it is usually found on dry, sloping banks, with scant vegetation
											and therefore somewhat earthy and having some flattish stones scattered about,
											on country roadsides, the borders of fields, and similar places. It does not
											seem to congregate in numbers but is usually met with in pairs, a male and a
											female, under small stones, and when the stone is lifted it runs rapidly
											about, this way and that, in a gewildered manner, looking for a hiding place
											or its little burrow. Its leaping power is plainly not so great as that of Nemobius, and it makes but short jumps, and prefers if
											possible to find a place of concealment by running away. Its timidity and
											secretive nature cause it to be seldom seen about Halifax; but its notes draw
											attention to its hiding-place beneath a stone or piece of rubbish, where it
											can easily be captured.
										"The eggs are deposited in loose soil in the latter part of the autumn and
											hatch the following year, possibly early in June or thereabouts. Its notes or
											shrilling are apparently first heard near Halifax about August 2 and are
											frequently heard during both day and night in suitable places; but by October
											the number is much lessened in daytime and few or none shrill at night. The
											note is considerably louder, and is a shorter, slower-timed, and more distinct
											and noticeable trill than that of Nemobius fasciatus. It
											sounds like the trilled syllable plee-e-e. After each such
											trill it is silent for a moment and then calls again, thus: plee-e-e; plee-e-e; and so on. These notes sound out distinctly louder
											and more staccato from the omnipresent undertone and lower-toned tremolo
											resultant from the intermingled shrilling of countless numbers of Nemobius on all sides. When both species call more faintly at the
											beginning of the season, it is much more difficult to differentiate between
											the two."
									
								

								This form occurs at high altitudes and has a more northern range than G. a vernalis. It averages larger in size, has the ovipositor
									longer in comparison with the hind femora, the veins of female tegmina less
									reticulate and matures at a much later date.

								
									334. GRYLLUS DOMESTICUS
										Linnæus, 1758, 428. House Cricket.

									Size medium; form slender. Pale yellowish-brown or straw color; head with a
										dark reddish-brown bar on occiput just in front of pronotum; another between the
										upper portions of eyes; a third between the bases of antennæ and a fourth across
										the labrum, the lower two sometimes united. Pronotum with four or five irregular
										shaped spots of reddish-brown on dorsal surface, and a narrow bar of the same
										color each side; its hind margin slightly convex. Tegmina reaching nearly or
										quite to end of abdomen; sometimes with a reddish-brown spot on basal third.
										Inner wings either short and covered by, or extending considerably beyond, the
										tegmina. Hind femora short, rather slender. Ovipositor one-fifth longer than
										hind  femora, pale brown except the tip, which is
										darker. Length of body, ♂, 16.5, ♀, 15; of pronotum, ♂ and ♀, 3.5; of tegmina,
										11; of hind femora, 10; of ovipositor, 12 mm. (Fig. 239.)
								

								The "house cricket" or "cricket of the hearth" appears to be scarce in Indiana.
									Until January 1, 1903, I had in my collection but three specimens, two long-winged
									males and a short-winged female, taken from beneath rubbish in a gravel pit near
									West Terre Haute, Vigo County, in October, 1894. On the later date mentioned I
									secured a dozen or more adults and nymphs in a greenhouse just north of the city
									of Indianapolis. The proprietor informed me that the males utter their call note
									throughout the winter and that the insect is seemingly most abundant at that
									season. It has also been noted near Bainbridge, Putnam County by J. S.
									Michaels.

								
									Fig. 239. Female. (After Lugger.)
								

								This is an Old World cricket and probaby occurs sparingly in most of the states
									east of the Rocky Mountains, though recorded from the south only from "Carolina,"
									Georgia, Alabama and Texas. Scudder states that he has seen no short-winged
									specimens from the United States, though they are common in Europe. It is probable
									that in many instances the so-called "house-crickets" of the present country homes
									are field crickets, especially G. luctuosus, which have striven
									to prolong their existence by seeking shelter within the domiciles of man.
										Marlatt (1896, 52) has given the following pleasing account of the
									habits of this house cricket: 
										"In Europe, and in some parts of the United States, no insect inhabitants of
											dwellings are better known than these domestic or house crickets, not so much
											from observation of the insects themselves as from familiarity with their
											vibrant, shrilling song notes. These notes, while thoroughly inharmonious in
											themselves, are, partly from the difficulty in locating the songster, often
											given a superstitious significance and taken, according to the mood of the
											listener, to be either a harbinger of good and indicative of cheerfulness and
											plenty, or to give rise to melancholy and to betoken misfortune. The former
											idea prevails, however, and Cowper expresses the common belief that the-- 
												
													'Sounds inharmonious in themselves and harsh,
													Yet heard in scenes where peace forever reigns,
													And only there, please highly for their sake.'
												
											
										
									
								

								"The house cricket usually occurs on the ground floor of dwellings and evinces
									its liking for warmth by often occurring in the vicinity of  fireplaces, concealing itself between the bricks of chimneys or behind
									baseboards, frequently burrowing into the mortar of walls. It is particularly apt
									to abound in bakehouses. It is rarely very abundant but at times multiplies
									excessively and becomes a very serious nuisance. During cold weather or in cold
									rooms in winter, it remains torpid, but under the influence of warmth it becomes
									active and musical. It is easily kept in captivity as a pet, and will reward the
									possessor by furnishing an abundance of its peculiar melody, and in Spain it is
									often kept, it is reported, in cages, as we do singing birds. It is in the main
									nocturnal in its habits, coming out in the dusk of the evening and roaming about
									the house for whatever food materials it may discover. It feeds readily on bread
									crumbs or almost any food product to which it can get access, and is particularly
									attracted to liquids, in its eagerness to get at which it often meets death by
									drowning. It is a very pugnacious insect and will bite vigorously if captured, and
									is often predaceous or carnivorous, like most of its outdoor allies It is supposed
									to feed on various other house insects, such as the cockroach and is also probably
									canibalistic. A pair of native species kept in a cage by the writer, for a short
									period manifested the greatest friendliness, but the male shortly afterwards made
									a very substantial meal of his companion.
								"These Crickets, in common with most other Orthoptera, will occasionally in pure
									wantonness seemingly, cut and injure fabrics, and are particularly apt to cut into
									wet clothing, evidently from their liking for moisture. Any of the common field
									grasshoppers or crickets, entering houses, are apt to try their sharp jaws on
									curtains, garments, etc., and Dr. J. A. Lintner records the case of a suit of
									clothing just from the tailor which was completely ruined in a night by common
									black field crickets (Gryllus luctuosus), which had entered an
									open window in some numbers. There is a popular superstition also to the effect
									that if a cricket be killed its relatives will promptly cut the garments of the
									offender.
								"The house cricket may be readily destroyed by taking advantage of its liking for
									liquids, and any vessel containing beer or other liquid placed about will usually
									result in crickets being collected and drowned in numbers. It may also be
									destroyed by the distribution of uncooked vegetables, such as ground up carrots or
									potatoes, strongly poisoned with arsenic. In the use of poisoned baits in
									dwellings great care, however, should always be exercised."
								Walker (1904, 252) records the taking of all stages of G. domesticus in late autumn in the basement of the General Hospital at
									Toronto, Ontario. They were "lurking in the chinks between the bricks of the wall
									and positively swarmed under loose bricks close to the furnace. Morse does not
									mention it from New England (1919a) though R. & H. (1915c) state
									that it has been recorded from Connecticut.
							
						

						
							Subfamily VI. OECANTHINÆ. THE WHITE TREE CRICKETS.

							Slender bodied crickets of a pale color having the head elongate, horizontal or
								nearly so; vertex declivent, passing gradually  into
								the face; eyes large, ovate, lying obliquely behind the basal joint of antennæ;
								ocelli absent; antennæ more than twice as long as body, filiform, the two basal
								joints usually ornamented with black markings; pronotum longer than broad, somewhat
								narrowed in front; lower margins of lateral lobes with front and hind angles
								rounded; tegmina of males rather firm, rigid, semi-transparent, flat, much wider
								than the abdomen, their tips broadly rounded; of females narrow, membranous, wrapped
								closely about the body; wings usually longer than tegmina; legs very slender; fore
								and middle tibiæ unarmed, the former dilated near base and furnished each side with
								a large elongate-oval tympanum; all the femora unarmed beneath, the hind ones very
								slender; hind tibiæ usually armed above on each margin with a row of very numerous
								minute teeth and three to six longer spines, also with three pairs of subapical
								spurs; tarsi three-jointed, the basal joint longer than the others united.
								Subgenital plate of male scoop-shaped, its apex rounded. Ovipositor straight,
								shorter than hind femora, the tips of inner valves wedge-shaped, of outer ones armed
								with four short, rather blunt curved teeth.
							All our species of Oecanthus are mainly arboreal, living on
								trees, vines, shrubbery and the taller herbaceous plants. They especially frequent
								the various species of golden-rod and wild sunflowers, and often three or four can
								be found on a single one of these plants. For the most part they remain quiescent
								during the day, but are quite active at night.
							The first mention in this country of the peculiar mating habits of Oecanthus was made in my former work (1903, 452) as follows:
							On September 18, 1898, I was in late afternoon in a wet prairie near Hammond,
								Indiana, where O. fasciatus was more than usually abundant on
								clumps of wild sunflower. A half dozen or more pairs were seen in copulation. In
								this act it seems that the female mounts the body of the male, the latter first
								raising the tegmina until they stand at an angle of about 45 degrees, so as to give
								the female access to a pair of glands which lie immediately beneath the base of
								wings. The female worked at these glands with her mandibles, the male meantime
								moving the inner wings gently sideways, in and out. After working over the glands
								for ten or fifteen minutes, the female would usually leave the body of the male and
								crawl onto an adjacent head of the sunflower. The male meantime kept the tegmina
								raised, seemingly in waiting for her return, which was always at the end of five or
								six  minutes. During the process, no intromittent
								organ of the male was noticeable, nor was any union of the parts at the end of the
								abdomen seen. Is it possible that in the mating of these Oecanthids the female
								removes the semen from the glands whose openings are beneath the tegmina of the male
								and then fertilizes her ova?
							Since then the mating habits of the different species of Oecanthus have been carefully studied and described by Hancock (1905,
									1911) and Houghton (1909) and they are concisely stated by
									Fulton (1915, 3) as follows: 
									"The interest in these insects centers chiefly about their remarkable
										reproductive structures and instincts and their peculiar oviposition habits. The
										song of the male, which serves to attract the female, is produced by a minute
										rasp on the under side of the forewing which is scraped by a structure on the
										inner edge of the opposite wing. In producing the sound the wings are raised at
										right angles to the body and vibrated rapidly. When the wings are so raised,
										there is exposed on the metanotum a glandular hollow, the secretion of which is
										very attractive to the female. The latter climbs over the abdomen and feeds on
										the secretion. The male takes advantage of the position and inserts the barbed
										capillary tube of a spermatophore into the genital opening of the female and the
										sperms pass into the seminal receptacle. The spermatophore is formed in a
										peculiar pouch at the tip of the abdomen of the male by the hardening of a
										viscous liquid about a mass of sperms."
									"The female prepares for oviposition by chewing a small pit in the bark of the
										plant. The drilling is accomplished by quick downward thrusts of the ovipositor
										and a slower twisting motion. After the egg is deposited a quantity of
										mucilaginous substance is discharged into the hole, and with most species the
										female plugs up the opening with chewed bark or excrement."
									"The songs of tree crickets form a considerable part of the insect sounds to be
										heard in late summer and autumn. The males generally place themselves in some
										hidden retreat among the leaves, with only their long antennæ projecting to warn
										them of approaching danger. They stop singing at the slightest jar of the ground
										or movement of the plants in which they are located, but at night a strong light
										can be thrown on them without appreciably disturbing them.
									"In preparing to sing the male raises the fore wings or tegmina perpendicular
										to the body. This movement automatically unfolds them so that the inner portion,
										which normally lies over the back, and the inflexed outer portion, come to lie
										in the same plane when the wings are raised. The sound is produced by the fore
										wings vibrating rapidly in a transverse direction, so that the overlapping inner
										portions rub against each other.
									"The mechanism which produces the sound is found near the base of the wing, the
										broad expanded distal part serving as a resonator to increase the volume of
										sound. A short but prominent transverse vein, about one-fourth way from the
										base, is modified beneath to form a minute filiform rasp. It is from one to one
										and a half millimeters long according to species, and bears from 20 to 50 short
										teeth which are inclined slightly toward  the
										opposite wing. In all of many specimens examined the right wing laps over the
										left. The latter has a fine thickened ridge along the inner edge just opposite
										the file. This scrapes against the teeth of the file on the right wing and thus
										produces the sound vibrations. The underside of the left wing has a file
										practically identical to the other but this is apparently seldom, if ever,
										used."
							The eggs of the white tree crickets are deposited either singly and irregularly in
								the bark of trees or shrubs, or singly but usually in more or less regular rows in
								the pith of twigs, berry canes, grape vines and weed stems. By these habits of
								oviposition they often cause much damage to the growing plants, which is in part
								offset by their habits of feeding upon aphids and perhaps the young of other
								injurious insects.
							In addition to the works above cited treating especially of the mating habits the
								principal literature treating of our North American species of the subfamily is as
								follows: Fitch, 1856; Saussure, 1874, 456-464, 1878,
									591-597; Riley, 1881; Blatchley, 1903;
									Forbes, 1905; Fulton, 1915; R. & H.,
									1916. Kirby (1906, 62) recognized 34 genera of Oecanthinæ. Of
								these but two are represented in the eastern United States.

							
								KEY TO EASTERN GENERA OF ŒCANTHINIÆ.

								a. a. Hind tibiæ armed above with both spines and small teeth; base of
									thorax not suddenly dilated; wings but little if any longer than tegmina. I. OECANTHUS.
								aa. Hind tibiæ not armed above and with only two very small spurs each
									side at apex; base of thorax suddenly strongly dilated to form a distinct border;
									wings nearly twice as long as tegmina. II. NEOXABEA.
							

							
								I. OECANTHUS
									Serville, 1831, 134. (Gr., "to inhabit" + "flower.")

								The principal characters of the genus are given under the subfamily heading and
									in the above key. In addition they have the fourth segment of maxillary palpi
									nearly as long as third; tegmina of female regularly reticulated with the oblique
									longitudinal vein plainly visible; tegmina of male with humeral angle distinct and
									mediastinal vein weakly bowed; hind tarsi imperfectly 4-jointed, the suture
									between the third and fourth segments visible, but the fourth one immovable; the
									first or basal segment much longer than the others united, and armed each side
									with a single apical spur; anal cerci straight, slender, tapering, bristly, nearly
									as long as abdomen.
								The name Oecanthus, signifying "I dwell in the flowers," does
									not truly represent the habits of the insects as they are more often found upon
									the twigs and foliage than in the flowers themselves 
									Kirby (1906, 72) recognized 27 species of the genus, 16 of them from
									America. Of these six species and one color variety occur in our territory.
										Hart (1892) first showed that the form and arrangement of the black
									markings on the basal joints of antennæ of Oecanthus furnish
									reliable characters for determining the species, and these markings have since
									been used as the principal differential character in all keys.

								
									Fig. 240. Basal joints of antennæ of Oecanthus and Neoxabea showing the black markings. a, O. niveus
											b, angustipennis; c, nigricornis; d, quadripunctatus; e, exclamationis; f,
											pini; g, latipennis; h, N. bipunctatus. (After Lugger & Fulton.)
								

								
									KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF ŒCANTHUS.84

									a. Antennæ with one or more black spots on under side of the first two
										basal segments; tegmina of male less than half as broad as long, their greatest
										width not over 6 mm.; front of head and base of antennæ never pinkish.
									b. First and second basal segments of antennæ each with a single black
										mark.
									c. Black marks on both segments in the form of small round spots (Fig.
										240, a.) 335. NIVEUS.
									cc. Basal segment with an elongate black mark.
									d. Mark on basal segment j-shaped, hooked at base (Fig. 240, b.) 336. ANGUSTIPENNIS.
									dd. Mark on basal segment club-shaped, not hooked (Fig. 240, e.) 337. EXCLAMATIONIS.
									bb. First and second segments each with two black marks or wholly
										black.
									e. Head and thorax pale yellowish-green or black or marked with both
										colors.
									f. Marks on basal segment broad, often confluent (Fig. 240, c); antennæ usually in great part black; head and thorax either black or
										trifasciate with black; lower surface of abdomen in part black. 338. NIGRICORNIS.
								
								84I have not included
										O. forbesi
									Titus (Can. Ent. XXXIV, 260) as it was probably described from a
									specimen with malformed palpi. Hart (Ms.) states that the unique male type without
									the palpi is in the collection at Urbana, Ill., and looks to him "like an ordinary
										4-punctatus." As far as I can ascertain only the one specimen
									is known.



								

								
									ff. Marks on basal joint usually narrow, parallel, distinct (Fig. 240,
											d); head, thorax and abdomen wholly pale greenish-yellow.
											338a. QUADRIPUNCTATUS.
									ee. Head, thorax and antennæ reddish-brown; wings in life with
										conspicuous green veins; black marks on basal antennal segment broad, rarely
										confluent (Fig. 240, f.) 339. PINI.
									aa. Antennæ without black marks on basal segment (Fig. 240, g); tegmina of male more than half as broad as long, their greatest
										width more than 6.5 mm.; head and basal joints of antennæ usually suffused with
										pinkish. 340. LATIPENNIS.
								

								
									335. OECANTHUS NIVEUS
										(DeGeer), 1773, 522. Snowy Tree Cricket.

									Form moderately slender. Ivory white, more or less tinged, especially in
										female, with a very pale green; top of head and basal segments of antennæ
										usually suffused with pale orange-yellow; black spots on both basal segments
										round. Pronotum almost as broad as long. Tegmina of male broader than in any
										species except latipennis. Wings but slightly exceeding
										tegmina, male, surpassing them about 4 mm., female. Ovipositor short, straight,
										tipped with black. Length of body, ♂ and ♀, 12--14.5; of tegmina, ♂, 13--14, ♀,
										12--13; of hind femora, ♂, 8.5--9, ♀, 9--10; of ovipositor, 5.5 mm. Greatest
										width of tegmina, ♂, 5.5--6 mm. (Fig. 241.)
								
								
									Fig. 241. Male and female. (After Beutenmuller.)
								

								While the snowy tree cricket occurs in all parts of Indiana, it appears to be
									less common in the State than either O. angustipennis or quadripunctatus, and much of the published literature relating to
									it has doubtless been of these and other species. Like the other members of its
									genus niveus reaches maturity in southern Indiana about July
									1st, and in the central part a fortnight later, and exists in that stage until
									after heavy frosts. The females appear to be more plentiful than the males, the
									latter being more often heard than seen. During the day they keep themselves
									hidden among the foliage and flowers of various plants, but as night approaches
									they come forth and the male begins his incessant, shrill, chirping note, which he
									continues with little or no intermission till the approach of morning warns him to
									desist.
								The range of niveus is said by Fulton (1915) to be
									wider than that of any other Oecanthus, extending from New
									England and Ontario to Minnesota and Utah, south and southwest to Georgia, Texas,
									Cuba and Mexico. It is not recorded from Florida and R. & H. (1916,
										296) state that Thompson's Mills, Ga. and Cranberry, N. Car. are the only
									reliable definite records from the southeastern United States.




								


								Fulton (loc. cit.) says that O. niveus "is a tree-
									and bush-inhabiting form. It is found most abundantly in apple orchards and is
									more or less common in plantings of other fruit trees and in raspberry
									plantations, shrubberies, vines and bushy fence rows. Among forest trees it is
									less common, although a few can often be heard singing in such places, especially
									along the edge of a wood. In general this species prefers a cultivated region to a
									wilderness. However, in orchards that are regularly sprayed with arsenicals, the
									crickets do not become very abundant."
								Morse (1919a) states that niveus is common
									throughout southern New England in shrubbery near houses, orchards and gardens
									from late August till October. Walker (1904, 253) says that niveus is very common in the cultivated parts of Ontario and that
									of native trees he had found it most partial to butternut, where the females are
									found on the trunk and lower branches, but the males higher up and more difficult
									to obtain. He adds: "O. niveus is generally held responsible for
									a great deal of mischief done to raspberry and blackberry canes by the females in
									laying their eggs. It is my belief that most of this damage, at least in this
									locality, is done by O. fasciatus and quadripunctatus which abound on raspberry bushes, while niveus is seldom if ever found on them." This belief, as will be noted
									below, has been since proven to be correct.
								The first definite account of the song and habits of niveus is
									that of Fitch (1856, 406) in part as follows: 
										"In the southern part of New York the song of the snowy tree cricket begins
											to be heard as early as the first of August. Perched among the thick foliage
											of a grapevine or other shrubbery, some feet up from the ground, and remaining
											in the same spot day after day, its song begins soon after sunset and before
											the duskiness of twilight arrives. It is distinctly heard at a distance of
											several rods, and the songster is always farther off than is supposed. Though
											dozens of other crickets and katydids are shrilling on every side at the same
											time, the peculiar note of this cricket is at once distinguished from all the
											rest, consisting of repetitions of a single syllable, slowly uttered, in a
											monotonous, melancholy tone, with a slight pause between. The children regard
											the cricket as no votary of the temperance cause; they understand its song to
											consist of the words treat-treat-treat-treat, which words,
											slowly uttered, do so closely resemble its notes that they will at once recall
											them to the recollection of almost every reader. And the song is thus
											continued without the slightest variation and without any cessation, I think,
											the whole night through. I, however, have sometimes heard it at the first
											commencement of its evening serenade uttering three syllables resembling the
											words treat, treat, two; treat, treat, two--as though the
											songster was supplicating a libation for his voiceless mate as well as
											himself, a longer pause following each  third
											note. This prelude is probably performed in limbering or otherwise adjusting
											his organs, preparatory to performing the regular carol, which is struck into
											in a few moments."85
									
								

								Houghton (1904, 1909a) and Parrott and Fulton (1914)
									have shown that O. nigricornis and not O.
										niveus is the tree cricket that does so much damage by ovipositing in rows
									in raspberry canes and that niveus deposits the eggs singly in
									apple, plum, elm and other trees, though sometimes singly in the raspberry canes.
									The method of ovipositing by niveus is thus described by Parrott
									& Fulton: 
										"The female selects a suitable spot on a tree or bush and prepares to
											oviposit by first chewing a small hole in the bark, choosing the upper side of
											a branch in preference to the lower side, and working with the head uppermost
											when on a sloping or vertical surface. Upon the completion of the cavity she
											then walks forward a little, arches her back so as to bring the ovipositor
											about perpendicular to the branch and begins moving it up and down until she
											strikes the hole. She then starts to drill by giving the ovipositor quick
											thrusts and at the same time slowly turning it around by twisting the abdomen
											30 or 40 degrees to each side. As the ovipositor is forced in it takes a more
											or less oblique course, according to the thickness of the bark, so that the
											egg usually comes to lie nearly parallel to the surface. It generally takes
											from six to seven minutes to force the ovipositor to its base the first time,
											but in some cases it takes much longer, depending on the resistance of the
											bark. After the operation this organ is pulled nearly out and drilled in again
											several times, each effort taking about one and a half or two minutes. When
											the hole is sufficiently reamed out and the ovipositor drilled in for the last
											time the female forces out a drop of excrement and, by stretching out the tip
											of the abdomen, fastens it to the bark just below the hole. The egg is then
											forced down and the ovipositor is slowly withdrawn. The female pauses with
											only the tip remaining in the hole and deposits some mucilaginous substance.
											She then removes the ovipositor, moves a slight distance backward, seizes the
											drop of excrement in her mouth and places it over the opening; then spends
											several minutes packing it in and smoothing it out so that the wound is neatly
											capped. The whole process of depositing an egg, from starting to drill until
											the hole for the reception of the egg is sealed, may consume from twenty
											minutes to three-quarters of an hour.
										"In trees having a rather soft, fleshy bark, such as apple and plum, niveus prefers to oviposit in fairly large branches from one
											to three inches in diameter. The eggs may be placed in almost any area in the
											bark, but a favorite location is in a lenticel where the initial drilling is
											more easily accomplished. In bushes and trees in which the large branches have
											a tough bark the eggs are commonly laid in the smaller branches in thick
											places in the bark on each side of the base of a small twig or bud. In
											raspberry canes, where the eggs are sometimes fairly common, oviposition
											usually occurs in the fleshy area at the side of the bud in the axils of the
												85Other
												interesting accounts of the song of O. niveus are given by
													McNeill (I891), Scudder (1893), Shull
													(1907) and Allard (1911.)
											 leaves, and we have never found more than one
											egg on each side of a bud. However, the egg never extends through the woody
											layer into the pith, as is the case with nigricornis."

								Whatever injury O. niveus may do in ovipositing is, in part at
									least, offset by its carnivorous propensities, as the young which hatch in May or
									early June, feed, until they reach maturity, largely upon the various species of
									aphids or plant lice which infest the shrubbery they frequent. Walsh (1867,
										54) was the first entomologist to call attention to this carnivorous
									habit, but it seems little attention was given to the matter until Murtfeldt
										(1889) gave an interesting account of some experiments and observations
									concerning this habit from which the following extract is taken: 
										"Some leaves of plum infested with a delicate species of yellow aphis were
											put into a jar with the .young of Oecanthus niveus, but
											attracted no immediate attention. As twilight deepened, however, the crickets
											awakened to greater activity. By holding the jar against the light of the
											window, or bringing it suddenly into the lamplight, the little nocturnal
											hunters might be seen hurrying with a furtive, darting movement, over the
											leaves and stems, the head bent down, the antennæ stretched forward, and every
											sense apparently on the alert. Then the aphids provided for their food would
											be caught up one after another with eagerness and devoured with violent action
											of the mouth parts, the antennæ meanwhile playing up and down in evident
											expression of satisfaction. Unless I had provided very liberally not an aphis
											would be found in the jar the next morning and the sluggish crickets would
											have every appearance of plethora."
									
								

								
									336. Oend="sc">ECANTHUS ANGUSTIPENNIS
										Fitch, 1856, 413. Narrow-winged Tree Cricket.

									Form very slender. Pale greenish-white; vertex and base of antennæ often
										yellowish; each of the first two basal joints of antennæ with a black mark, that
										on the first one elongate and hooked inward at base; the one on second joint
										oblong, slightly curved; tegmina of male translucent with a greenish tinge. Head
										smaller and pronotum slightly longer and narrower in front than in niveus. Tegmina of male narrower than in any other species except quadripunctatus. Wings slightly surpassing tegmina in length.
										Length of body, ♂, 12--14, ♀, 11.5--13; of pronotum, 2.8; of tegmina, ♂, 10--12,
										♀, 12; of wings, 13.5; of hind femora, 8.5; of ovipositor, 5.5 mm.
								

								The narrow-winged tree cricket does not appear to be a common insect in Indiana,
									having so far been taken only in Vigo, Putnam, Lawrence, Floyd and Crawford
									counties. It frequents the borders of groves and especially ironweeds in open
									pastures and reaches maturity about July 15.
								About Dunedin, Fla. I have taken adults of angustipennis by
									beating and sweeping in October, December, January and March, and it has been sent
									in as taken at porch light in May and June.  It
									appears to be much less common in that State than quadripunctatus, having been recorded only from Gainesville, Monticello,
									LaGrange and Lakeland. At LaGrange it was collected by Davis (1914)
									"among the golden rods and other low plants by the side of the road; also on small
									oaks and other trees. The song is loud, about three or four seconds long, with an
									equal interval of rest."
								The known range of O. angustipennis extends from New England
									west to Minnesota and Nebraska and south and southwest to Georgia, Dunedin, Fla.,
									Mississippi and, according to Allard, Texas. In New England it is definitely
									known, says Morse, only from near Boston and at various points in Connecticut,
									where it "frequents orchards, fruit trees and even low thickets of sweet fern."
										Beutenmüller (1894, 270) says that about New York City it is "not
									as common as niveus and inhabits the higher parts of different
									kinds of forest and fruit trees. The note is fainter than that of niveus and may be represented by reeeeeee, lasting about
									five seconds, and terminating abruptly, with an equal interval of rest. It usually
									sings at night only, but sometimes also late in the afternoon in shady places, and
									on cloudy days." Fox (Ms.) reports it from Clarksville, Tenn. and Hubbell from
									Washtenaw Co., Mich. In Nebraska Bruner found it "pretty well distributed over the
									eastern part of the State."
								Fulton (1915, 27, 29) says of angustipennis: 
										"It is often found in company with niveus and is generally
											abundant in apple orchards. It is more strictly arboreal than the latter
											species, and seems to be confined to woody plants, either trees or large
											bushes. About Geneva, N. Y., it has never been taken on raspberry, grape or
											weeds of any kind. Among forest trees it is more common than niveus. Many specimens have been collected from scrub and post oaks on
											Long Island, and from alder in a swamp near Geneva. The song of this species
											is not so loud as that made by niveus and is of a more
											mournful quality. It is, like that, intermittent, but can be readily
											distinguished by its longer notes and rests and its nonrythmical character.
											Each trill continues from one to five seconds. The periods of rest vary more
											and may be from one to eight seconds or longer. On trees where angustipennis occurs in equal abundance with niveus,
											its song is nearly drowned out by the synchronous beat of the latter species
											and only by listening intently can it be detected. So far as observed it sings
											throughout the night and remains silent during the day."
									
								

								Allard (1910b) wrote of the song of angustipennis
									in north Georgia as follows: 
										"It sings on cloudy afternoons, though its song is best heard after sunset.
											As the shadows become deeper in the oak trees and the breezes have ceased, a
											faint, brief high-pitchd pr-e-e-e is heard. This is soon
											repeated by others in different keys at brief intervals. The notes of this
											cricket, to me, inspire a weird pathos, unlike any  other insect music. The phrase pr-e-e-e does not
											sustain the same uniform pitch, but dies away in a slightly lower key, a
											change which is hardly noticeable to the untrained ear. Each note is a
											mysterious, momentary wail amidst the shadowy foliage of the oaks, and seems
											like the voice of a complaining spirit interrupting the serenity of the
											night."
									
								

								
									337. OECANTHUS EXCLAMATIONIS
										Davis, 1907, 173. Davis's Tree Cricket.

									Somewhat larger and stouter than angustipennis. Pale
										greenish-white; occiput and vertex pale to orange yellow; first antennal segment
										swollen in front, the protuberance with a black club-shaped mark, second segment
										with a short dash directly above, the two marks together appearing like an
										inverted exclamation point. Pronotum slightly shorter and wider than in angustipennis, the lower portion of lateral lobes more
										flattened. Tegmina of male slightly longer and broader. Wings more strongly
										protruding, exceeding tips of cerci. Length of body, ♂and ♀ 12--15; of tegmina,
										♂ and ♀, 13--14 ; of ovipositor, 5 mm. Width of tegmina, ♂, 5--5.5 mm.
								

								Central Park and Staten Island, N. Y., August (Davis). Not yet
									identified from Indiana, though it doubtless occurs in the State, as the known
									range extends from Connecticut west to Cedar Point, Ohio and Hollister, Mo. and
									southwest to Clarksville and Johnson City, Tenn. About New York City Davis finds
									it mainly on the post-oak, Quercus minor (Marsh) and other
									species of oak, often in company with O. angustipennis to which
									it is very closely related.
								Fulton (1915, 31) states that "The song of exclamationis is intermittent and non-rhythmical and most resembles the
									song of angustipennis. The beginning of each note is
									comparatively weak, but the sound increases in volume and slightly in pitch and
									continues uniformly until it abruptly ends. In quality it most resembles the
									distant singing of the common toad." Females kept in captivity deposited many eggs
									in the bark of oak branches between half an inch and an inch in diameter. The
									habits of oviposition are very similar to those of O. niveus as
									the female "would fasten a drop of excrement to the bark before depositing the egg
									and after pulling out the ovipositor would pick the pellet up and force it into
									the hole. She would then chew off small pieces of bark and add them to the plug,
									and spend five or ten minutes putting on the finishing touches."

								
									338. OECANTHUS NIGRICORNIS
										F. Walker, 1869, 93. Black-horned Tree Cricket.

									Size medium and form robust for the genus. Greenish-yellow; head and
										pronotum either wholly black or with three more or less distinct lengthwise
										black stripes; legs yellowish with a blackish tinge or wholly black;  tibiæ and tarsi black; abdomen black beneath,
										yellowish-green above. Antennæ longer than in any other species, often two and a
										half times the length of body, either wholly black or with two black marks on
										each of the two basal segments; the inner mark on the first one twice the length
										of the other, the two often merged above. Tegmina slightly narrower than those
										of niveus. Wings equalling or slightly ly surpassing the
										tegmina. Apical spurs of hind tibiæ stronger and more acute than in allied
										species. Ovipositor with apical third slightly but distinctly upcurved. Length
										of body, ♂ and ♀, 12--14; of pronotum, 3; of tegmina, 10--12; of inner wings,
										12.5--13.2; of hind femora, 9.2--10; of ovipositor, 5.7 mm. Width of tegmina, ♂,
										4.5--5 mm. (Fig. 242.)
								
								
									Fig. 242. Oecanthus nigricornis Walker. a,
										male; b, female.
								

								This is the O. fasciatus Fitch of most American authors, myself
									(1903, 450) included, Fitch having wrongly identified DeGeer's Nemobius fasciatus as the present insect. The next older name has
									therefore been given it in recent years. Scudder (1862, 431) was very
									caustic in his remarks about Fitch's misidentification, but himself on the next
									page wrongly made Fitch's fasciatus a synonym of O.
										niveus and later in both his catalogues used O. fasciatus
									as the name of the cricket.
								This striped tree cricket is the most common Oecanthus in
									Indiana. In August and September, nearly every stalk of goldenrod and wild
									sunflower along roadsides, in open fields or in fence corners, will have from one
									to a half dozen of these insects upon its flowers or branches. It is also
									especially abundant upon the tall weeds and bushes along the borders of lakes and
									ponds, and in sloughs and damp ravines.
								The note of fasciatus is a shrill continuous whi-r-r-r-r which is kept up for several minutes with the intervals of
									irregular length. It is continued for most of the night and on cloudy days. When
									the sun is shining brightly it usually begins about mid-afternoon and continues
									with but little pause until the dawn of the next day, unless the caller is, in the
									meantime, successful in wooing with his music one of the opposite sex within
									reaching distance.




								


								The known range of typical O. nigricornis is a wide one
									extending from New England and Ontario west across the continent and southwest to
									North Carolina, Texas and Arizona. It is not as yet recorded from Georgia or
									Florida and numerous records under the name of fasciatus are not
									to be relied upon. It occurs in numbers throughout New England and Walker
										(1904, 254) records it as "by far the commonest tree cricket in Ontario,
									and during August and September it abounds on shrubs and tall herbs, especially
									golden-rod, and is particularly plentiful on low grounds. Partially cleared bush
									lands supporting a rank growth of raspberry bushes, golden rod, boneset and other
									tall herbaceous plants are favorite haunts. It is so common on raspberry bushes
									that there is little doubt that the female is responsible for much damage to the
									canes, though I have no proof of this assumption. I have found it in cultivated
									raspberry bushes in gardens, but it is more partial to wild districts."
								It is now known that O. nigricornis and its variety quadripunctatus
									
										Fig. 243. Eggs of Tree Cricket in raspberry cane. (a) Cane,
											showing puncture. (b) Cane split to show eggs. (c) Egg enlarged. (d) Cap of egg enlarged. (After
											Riley.)
									 are the tree crickets which do much harm by ovipositing in the tender
									canes or shoots of various cultivated fruits, as the raspberry, blackberry, grape,
									plum, peach, etc.; no less than 321 eggs, by actual count, having been found in a
									raspberry cane 22 inches in length. So partial is it to the stems of raspberry and
									blackberry as receptacles for its eggs that in some localities scarcely a cane
									escapes without being more or less damaged. The eggs are laid in autumn, and at
									first the injury is shown only by a slight roughness of the bark, but afterwards
									the cane or branch frequently dies above the puncture, or is so much injured as to
									be broken off by the first high wind. If the injured and broken canes containing
									the eggs be collected and burned in early spring the number of insects for that
									season will be materially lessened.
								Bruner (1895, 112) has written of the habits of oviposition of niveus with which he confused those of nigricornis in other plants as follows : 
										"In addition cultivated fruits the snowy tree cricket also deposits its eggs
											in the stems of a large variety of other plants and trees--the main  requirements being a soft fibre and pithy
											interior to the twigs selected. Among the trees the white willow suffers most.
											I have seen hedges of this tree so completely utilized that scarcely a twig
											escaped being deposited into. Other species of willow, cottonwood, elm, maple,
											box elder, cherry, dog-wood, black locust, sycamore, ash, honey-locust, and in
											fact almost all kinds of trees, are sometimes attacked. Elder is a great
											favorite, too. After these come weeds, as the artichoke, sunflower,
											golden-rod, ambrosia, and many others. All of these latter being annuals, or
											dying to the ground each year, whether attacked by the cricket or not, the
											conclusion is plain. All the cricket requires is a receptacle for her eggs. It
											matters but little whether a dead or a living plant furnishes that
											oondition.
										"While woody plants are known to be very commonly used as receptacles for the
											eggs of this cricket, it is by far the most numerous upon such weeds as those
											mentioned above during its entire career; but more particularly so during its
											latter days when looking after the perpetuation of its kind."
									

								The mating habits, oviposition and song of O. nigricornis have
									been fully described by Hancock, Houghton and Jensen in the works previously
									cited. Allard (1911) says that in New England "It dwells among weeds,
									grass and golden-rods nearly everywhere in fields and pastures. Its song is a
									steady, quavering, sustained trill. The trill of some individuals is strong, deep
									and rich-toned, recalling the mellow trill of O. latipennis. The
									pitch and volume of sound vary noticeably with different individuals."

								
									338a. OECANTHUS NIGRICORNIS QUADRIPUNCTATUS
										Beutenmuller, 1894a, 250. Four-spotted Tree Cricket.

									Size and form of nigricornis. Pale yellowish-green;
										antennæ pale brown, the two basal segments pale green with two black marks on
										each; those on second segment oblong, parallel, the inner about double the
										length of outer; the inner mark on lower or basal segment two-thirds the length
										of segment, its upper end curved outward but not united with the outer mark,
										which is short and almost round (Fig. 240, d.) Tegmina of male
										translucent with greenish-yellow veins, the wings protruding slightly beyond
										their tips. Legs dull greenish-yellow, the tarsi often in part fuscous.
										Ovipositor brownish with black tip. Length of body, ♂ and ♀, 11.5--14; of
										pronotum, 2.4--2.6; of tegmina, 10--12; of wings, 12.5--13.5; of hind femora,
										8--8.5; of ovipositor, 5.5 mm. Width of tegmina, ♂, 4.5--4.7 mm.
								

								In central and southern Indiana this tree cricket is almost as common as nigricornis but in the northern part of the State it appears to
									occur in fewer numbers. It frequents shrubbery and weeds in gardens, along
									roadsides and borders of cultivated fields, and is often found in company with nigricornis. An adult female was taken in Crawford County on June
									28, an early date for a tree cricket in Indiana.
								In Florida I have found quadripunctatus the most common of  the tree crickets in late fall and winter, specimens
									having been taken at Sanford, Cape Sable, Sarasota and Dunedin. About Dunedin it
									occurs on the tall grasses and weeds growing about low places in the pine woods
									and is also often swept from huckleberry bushes and other low shrubs; adults
									having been taken during every month from October to April. It has before been
									recorded from numerous localities in the State as far south as Ft. Myers.
								By some authors, notably Fulton and R. & H., quadripunctatus is regarded as a distinct species, but numerous specimens
									at hand show that intermediates occur. It is often found in numbers on the same
									clumps of weeds or bushes in company with nigricornis.
										Walker (1904, 255) says: "I believe this form to be merely a pale
									variety of O. fasciatus as I have a series of intergrades and am
									unable to draw a definite line to separate the two." Caudell is quoted by
										Houghton (1909a, 114) as stating that specimens bred from the same
									egg clusters sent in by Houghton represented both nigricornis
									and quadripunctatus and that he considered the latter only a
									variety of the former. Houghton quotes other evidence to show that Caudell's
									opinion is correct.
								On the other hand R. & H. (1916) regard them as distinct,
									stating that in addition to color differences nigricornis has a
									heavier and wider pronotum and a depression between the eyes not "at all or rarely
									weakly indicated in quadripunctatus." Fulton (1915)
									separates them in his key only by color characters, but states that they have
									"constant differences in habits," quadripunctatus occurring in
									larger numbers in upland fields abounding in medium sized weeds such as aster,
									sweet clover, daisy, golden-rod, ragweed, and especially the wild carrot or Queen
									Ann's lace. Quite often in a field of this character where quadripunctatus is prevalent, the brushy fence rows surrounding the area
									will be inhabited by nigricornis. In general nigricornis prefers larger plants and more dense growth than quadripunctatus, and its habitat is more varied, it being usually found in
									tall, rank growths of weeds, such as in swamps and river bottoms, in brush or
									second growth, in fence rows grown up with bushes, briers and vines, in raspberry
									plantings, vineyards, nurseries and even occasionally in orchards."
								As noted above specimens are at hand showing not only all intergradations in
									color from almost black nigricornis to the palest of quadripunctatus, but also in the form of the thorax .and
									depression on head mentioned by R. & H. Moreover, Fulton states  that the "song of nigricornis so
									closely resembles that of quadripunctatus that it is very
									dififcult to distinguish the two," and Allard (1911) says that he
									"has been unable to find any constant differences which serve to distinguish the
									trills of these two species." I therefore regard quadripunctatus
									as only a color variety of nigricornis, gradually replacing the
									latter southward and wholly so in Florida. In Indiana, as perhaps elsewhere as far
									as can be judged from the records, the typical form nigricornis
									is more abundant in the cooler and moister regions and the variety in warmer and
									drier localities.
								The range of O. n. quadripunctatus as given by Fulton is almost
									exactly that of nigricornis, Florida, Colorado and Utah being
									added to the list of states mentioned and California not given. R. & H.
										(1916) record it from many localities from Virginia southwestward to Ft.
									Myers, Fla., and state that it is "the most abundant species of Oecanthus in the eastern United States." Morse says that it is widely
									distributed and locally abundant in southern New England and extends as far north
									as Brunswick, Maine. Lugger recognized two forms of nigricornis
									as occurring in Minnesota but evidently was not aware of Beutenmiiller's name for
									the pale one. I once found it abundant on the north shore of the Niagara River
									opposite Buffalo, N. Y., where it was the only Oecanthus seen in
									early September. Specimens are also at hand from Sherborn, Mass., North Madison,
									Conn., Mobile, Ala. and Agricultural College, Miss.

								
									339. OECANTHUS PINI
										Beutenmuller, 1894b, 56. Pine Tree Cricket.

									Size medium, form rather robust. Head and pronotum nearly uniform dull
										reddish-brown, the latter with a paler stripe each side; antennæ dull brown, the
										two basal segments paler, the first with an elongate black spot along inner edge
										and a small oblique one near apex; second with two oblong, parallel black spots;
										tegmina of male transparent greenish-yellow with green veins; those of female
										greenish-yellow, pale yellow along the fold, tinged with brown near base; legs
										dull brown, hind femora green; tarsi piceous; body beneath brown with sides
										yellowish-green. Ovipositor dull brown, the tip black. Disk of thorax
										subquadrate. Wings scarcely surpassing tegmina, male, a little longer, female.
										Length of body, ♂ and ♀, 12--15; of tegmina, 11--13; of ovipositor, 6 mm. Width
										of tegmina. ♂, 4.5--5 mm.
								

								Delaware County, Penn., Sept. 29 (Hebard). Described from
									Windham County, Conn. and ranges from Gloucester, Mass. west to Bloomsburg, Pa.
									and southwest to Raleigh, N. Car. Hart (1907, 235) has recorded it
									from northwestern Illinois but (Ms.) reports that his specimens were not from pine
									and their identification uncertain.


								


								Beutenmiiller (loc. cit.) says of it: "Resembles O.
										fasciatus but readily distinguished by the grass green venation. The insect
									lives only on pine trees and usually on the higher branches. Its song is a
									continuous soft and metallic reeeeee with numerous undulations.
									When many individuals are heard together their stridulation sounds not unlike the
									distant jingling of sleigh-bells." Fulton and Davis found it in numbers on the
									pitch pine, Pinus rigida Mill. near Central Park, Long Island,
									and Davis on the Jersey or scrub pine, P. virginiana Mill. at
									Bloomsburg, Pa. Fulton (1915, 41) states that the female deposits the
									eggs about 3 mm. apart in regular rows in pine bark.

								
									340. OECANTHUS LATIPENNIS
										Riley, 1881, 61. Broad-winged Tree Cricket.

									Size large for the genus. Greenish-white, male, pale yellowish-green,
										female; occiput and eight or ten basal joints of antennæ pinkish, the former
										sometimes with four faint dusky streaks; pronotum often with a median dusky
										stripe, darkest in front; tegmina and wings of female often dusky at tips; legs
										white, knees yellowish; hind femora with a small dark spot near tip. Tegmina of
										male wider than in any other species. Wings much shorter than tegmina, male,
										surpassing their tips, female. Length of body, ♂ and ♀, 13--17; of pronotum,
										3--3.3; of tegmina, ♂, 13--16, ♀, 13--14.5; of wings, ♂, 12, ♀, 15--17; of hind
										femora, ♂ and ♀, 10; of ovipositor, 6.5 mm. Width of tegmina, ♂, 6.5--8
										mm.
								

								This, our largest species of Oecanthus, occurs throughout
									southern Indiana but has not as yet been taken in the northern half of the State.
									It is found mostly on shrubs and vines along fence rows, roadsides, and especially
									in thickets along the borders of streams and with us appears to be most abundant
									in October, though adults have been taken the last of August.
								The known range of O. latipennis is southern extending from
									Long Island and New Jersey west to Missouri and Nebraska and south and southwest
									to Georgia and Alabama. Fulton mentions it from Michigan and Lugger, without
									definite locality, in his Minnesota work. Riley records a male from Columbia,
									Texas, but afterward states that it had black marks on antennæ, which would
									preclude its being latipennis.
								The eggs of the broad-winged tree cricket are usually laid in the pith of the
									smaller twigs of shrubs and vines, preferably in the slender twigs of the wild and
									cultivated grapes. Riley (loc. cit.) has described the method of
									oviposition as follows: 
										"The jaws are first used to slightly tear the outer bark. With the antennæ
											stretched straight forward and the abdomen bent up so as to bring the
											ovipositor at right angles with the cane, the female then commences drilling,
											working the abdomen convulsively up and down about twice each second. The eggs
											are laid lengthwise in the pith, but always in 
											two sets, one on each side of the hole. The number varies according to the
											size of the cane, and the distance between the holes is also variable. The
											hole is usually filled up with a white mucous secretion, though there is very
											little of it about the eggs. This secretion also doubtless serves to
											facilitate the drilling. The same female will lay over 200 eggs, and will
											sometimes puncture the same cane at intervals of one-third of an inch for one
											and a half feet or more."
									
								

								The day note of the male of latipennis is louder than that of
									any other species. I have heard it when 60 feet distant; have traced it up, and
									found the musician beneath a leaf or on a post in the angle of a rail fence,
									industriously sounding his cymbals. The note is kept up for 20 to 30 seconds, and
									is then succeeded by a pause of about five seconds, when it is begun once more.
									Riley has written of it, probably of the night song: "The shrill of latipennis is continuous and recalls the trilling of a high-pitched
									dog-whistle in the distance. The key varies, however, and is sometimes much less
									high and more musical than at others. The commingled shrill of this species
									recalls also the distant croaking of frogs in spring. The broad wings are
									thoroughly elevated during the act, or even bent forward, and the vibration is so
									rapid that there appears to be no motion."
								Fulton (1915) states that the song of latipennis
									is a loud clear whistle with a musical ringing quality. The eggs are usually laid
									in grapevines, though sometimes in large stalks of golden-rod growing near the
									vines. A single hole in the outer woody layer of the stem serves for the
									deposition of from four to twelve eggs which are placed side by side in the pith
									in two groups, one above and one below the opening. "The size of the pith
									determines the number of eggs. The grapevine has a small pith and will hold only
									two or three eggs on a side, while in the golden-rod as many as six can be found
									in a single cluster."
							

							
								II. NEOXABEA
									Kirby, 1906, 76. (Gr., "near" + Xabea.)

								The principal characters separating this genus from Oecanthus
									are given in the generic key. In addition they have the maxillary palpi with third
									and fifth segments subequal, each twice as long as fourth; tegmina of female
									irregularly reticulated, the oblique longitudinal veins not conspicuous; male
									tegmina with mediastinal vein strongly curved, the humeral angle wanting; first
									joint of hind tarsi unarmed, the tarsi clearly but three-jointed, the second joint
									very short; anal cerci stout, strongly sinuate, only half as long as abdomen. But
									one species is known.



								

								
									341. NEOXABEA BIPUNCTATA
										(DeGeer), 1773, 523. Two-spotted Tree Cricket.

									Pale pinkish-brown; tegmina of female with two pairs of rather large
										blackish spots, one near base, the other at middle. Antennæ pale yellow, the
										basal segments without black marks, the first segment slightly prolonged at its
										upper inner angle, forming an acute blackish tooth (Fig. 240, h); legs pale with a pinkish tinge. Head strongly depressed between the
										eyes. Fronotum nearly one-half longer than wide; subcylindrical with sides
										subparallel to near basal fifth, then suddenly expanded to form a much wider
										strongly pitted basal margin, this separated from the disk proper by a distinct
										cross-suture. Wings very long, protruding like tails beyond the abdomen. Length
										of body, ♂ and ♀, 13--16; of pronotum, 3.3; of tegmina, 11--13; of wings, 20; of
										hind femora, 9--10; of ovipositor. 6 mm. Width of tegmina, ♂, 4.5 mm.
								

								This long-winged tree cricket appears to be very scarce, not only in Indiana, but
									usually wherever found. Here it has been taken only in Vigo and Marion counties,
									Aug. 3--27. Its known range is southern and a very wide one, extending in the
									United States from Connecticut west to Illinois and Kansas and south and southwest
									to North Carolina, Georgia and Mississippi. It is also recorded by Saussure and
									others from Mexico and Central America. DeGeer's type was from Pennsylvania.
										Morse (1919a) records it from New Canaan, Portland and New Haven,
									Conn., Aug. 14--Sept. 11; Smith (1910) from various points in New
									Jersey and Fulton (1915) from Ohio and Kansas. Near Cedar Point,
									Ohio, it was found by King on oak, willow and wild grape vines along the forest
									border or standing isolated at the edge of open sandy areas. R. & H.
										(1916, 300) mention it as "extremely retiring, living only in the densest
									tangles of heavy forest undergrowth, where solitary examples can be found only
									after long continued and vigorous beating."
								Allard (1910b) describing its habits in north Georgia says:  ""This cricket prefers the dense leaf-canopy of
											grape-vines, and usually begins to sing at nightfall. It is an intermittent
											triller, apd its low, deep, mellow trills, tr-r-r-r,
											continued only a few seconds, are separated by short intervals. Its notes are
											deeper, stronger, and richer than those of Oecanthus
												angustipennis. In tone quality they more nearly approach the song of
												Oecanthus latipennis. This cricket is not uncommon at
											Thompson's Mills, but usually congregates in small communities wherever
											conditions are favorable, generally in wild grape-vines by the roadside or in
											low trees near dwellings."
									

								The genus Xabea Riley (nec. Walker) of my former work (1903,
									453) and of most American writers, was replaced by Neoxabea by
									Kirby, who gave as synonyms of N. bipunctata (DeG.) the Oecanthus punctulatus
									Fitch (1856, 415) and O. formosus
									Walker (1869, 94).
							
						


						


						
							Subfamily VII. TRIGONIDIINÆ. THE WINGED BUSH CRICKETS.

							Very small crickets of a pale brown, rarely blackish hue, having the body short,
								stout; head large, subquadrate, as wide or wider than pronotum; antennæ very
								slender, three or more times as long as body; eyes rather large, subglobose or
								oblong-oval, separated by twice or more their own width; pronotum subquadrate, flat
								or feebly convex above, without carinæ, its front and hind margins subtruncate;
								tegmina of male as long as or longer than abdomen, usually furnished with a
								prominent rhomboidal tympanum which is not divided and has only one long curved
								oblique vein; tegmina of female more narrow, usually slightly shorter than abdomen,
								the longitudinal veins straight, prominent, usually connected by numerous
								alternating cross veinlets; wings when present often much longer than tegmina; fore
								and middle legs slender, subequal; hind femora stout, unarmed beneath; hind tibiæ no
								longer than femora armed above with three pairs of long movable spines and also near
								apex with two long inner spurs and three very short outer ones; tarsi slender, the
								basal joint longer than the other two united; second short, cordiform, depressed,
								third very slender; subgenital plate of male conical or scoop-shaped; cerci short,
								very slender; ovipositor sabre-like, much shorter than hind femora, compressed,
								strongly curved, acutely pointed.
							But little has been written of the habits of these little crickets. The species are
								all hygrophilous in habitat, living for the most part on the foliage and stems of
								tall grasses and weeds and low shrubs along the margins of ponds, lakes ditches and
								streams. None of them are ever numerous enough to do much damage, the plants on
								which they dwell being of little, if any economic value. Four genera represent the
								subfamily in our territory. The literature pertaining to them is scant in quantity
								and widely scattered, the following being the most important: Uhler,
									1864; Saussure, 1874, 361, 1878, 598; Blatchley,
									1903; Rehn, 1903f; R. & H., 1912c, 1916, 300;
									Hebard, 1915b.

							
								KEY TO EASTERN GENERA OF TRIGONIDIINÆ.

								a. Last joint of maxillary palpi club-shaped; basal joint of antennæ wider
									than long; pronotum subquadrate, as wide as or wider than long; color never red
									and dark brown.
								b. Interocular area convex, vertex strongly declivent; eyes subrotund,
									deeper than long; color in life dull yellow or pale to dusky brown.


								


								c. Front tibiæ with an auditory opening on one or both faces; males with a
									large stridulating area; larger, length of body, male, 4.5 or more mm. I. ANAXIPHA.
								cc. Front tibiæ without an auditory opening; males with a minute
									stridulating area; smaller, length of body, male, 4 mm. II. FALCICULA.
								bb. bb. Interocular area strongly flattened, vertex but little declivent;
									eyes compressed, longer than deep; color in life pale greenish-yellow. III. CYRTOXIPHA.
								aa. Last joint of maxillary palpi lobate, deeply concave; basal joint of
									antennæ longer than wide; pronotum subcylindrical, longer than wide; head and
									thorax red, tegmina dark brown. IV. PHYLLOSCYRTUS.
							

							
								I. ANAXIPHA
									Saussure, 1874, 370. (Gr., "upraised" + "sword.")

								Very small brown or dusky crickets having the head vertical; front oblique,
									declivent and forming a protuberance between the antennæ; ocelli very small,
									arranged in a triangle; antennæ excessively long, setaceous; last joint of
									maxillary palpi longer than the one preceding, its apex dilated and truncate;
									pronotum short, broad, bearing numerous erect stiff hairs; tegmina of male with
									dorsal field very wide, their tips rounded; the speculum on apical half prominent,
									undivided by a cross nerve; tegmina of female more narrow and closely embracing
									the sides of abdomen; wings either absent or present and nearly twice as long as
									tegmina; legs long, pubescent; front tibiæ with hearing organ present on both
									faces in winged forms, on outer face only in wingless forms; spines of hind tibiæ
									usually much longer than the spaces between their bases. Other characters those of
									the subfamily. The genus is mostly tropical in distribution, five nominal species
									being recorded from the eastern and southern states.

								
									KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF ANAXIPHA.

									a. Ovipositor one-half as long as hind femora; hind femora of male longer
										than tegmina, in fresh specimens with a dark stripe along the lower half of
										outer face in both sexes. 342. EXIGUA.
									aa. Ovipositor distinctly less than one-half the length of femora; hind
										femora of male shorter than tegmina, without a dark stripe.
									b. Color a uniform pale brown, usually without distinct dark markings on
										head or tegmina; form compact. 343. PULICARIA
									bb. Color blackish or dusky brown or head with dark stripes; form more
										elongate, less compact.
									c. Sides of body without a prominent dark brown stripe; spurs of hind
										tibiæ longer than the spaces between their bases; form very slender.
									d. d. General color pale brownish-yellow; occiput usually with two dark
										stripes which extend downward onto face. 343a. VITTATA.
									dd. dd. General color dusky or smoky brown. 344. SCIA.


									


									cc. Sides of body with a wide dark brown stripe, extending from eye back
										along sides of thorax and including the lateral field of tegmina and exposed
										portion of wings when at rest; spines of hind tibiæ shorter than the spaces
										between their bases. 345. IMITATOR.
								

								
									342. ANAXIPHA EXIGUA
										(Say), 1825, 309. Say's Bush Cricket.

									Dull yellowish-brown or clay yellow; head and pronotum in fresh specimens
										dark reddish-brown; face usually with three stripes and dots and dashes of
										reddish-brown; tegmina and legs pale brown; spines of hind tibiæ with bases and
										tips dusky; abdomen of male blackish; of female, dark brown, paler on sides;
										ovipositor dark brown, paler at tip. Pronotum about one-fourth wider than long.
										Tegmina of male but slightly surpassing tip of abdomen. Other characters as in
										key. Length of body, ♂, 5--6, ♀, 6--7; of antennæ, ♂, 32; of tegmina, ♂, 4--4.5,
										♀, 3--3.5; of hind femora, ♂ and ♀, 6; of ovipositor, 3.5--4 mm. (Fig.
										244.)
								

								This handsome little cricket occurs in numbers in suitable localities throughout
									Indiana. In the northern counties it is found among the sphagnum mosses growing in
									dense tamarack swamps, and also on the shrubs about the margins of lakes and
									marshes. Farther south it is often very abundant on the leaves and stems of the
									arrow alum, cat-tail flags, button-bush and other semi-aquatic plants. It is very
									active and difficult to capture, and, on account of its small size, is doubtless
									overlooked in many localities where it occurs in numbers. In central Indiana it
									reaches maturity about August 1st, and exists until after heavy frosts. Unlike the
									Nemobids, which it most closely resembles, it is never found on the ground, but
									clings to the stems of bushes and grasses, a few feet above the surface. No
									long-winged individuals have been taken in Indiana but R. & H.
										(1916) have recorded several from other states and note that they have
									open "auditory foramina" on both faces of fore tibiæ, while the brachypterous
									specimens have them only on the outer face of the tibiæ.
								This is our largest and most widely distributed Anaxipha, its
									known range extending from southern New England west to Minnesota and Nebraska and
									south and southwest to Jacksonville, Fla. and Brownsville, Texas. Say's types were
									from Missouri and the species has been many times recorded as A.
										pulicaria Burm.
								In New England exigua is recorded only from Westbrook, Conn.,
									where it occurs in tangled vegetation on or near salt marshes. Davis
										(1889) says that on Staten Island "it is not uncommon along the ditches
									in the salt meadows where the high tide bushes, Iva frutescens
									L., grow. It clings from six inches to a foot up the stems and its song has a
									particular silvery tone." In  Virginia Fox found it
									on Scirpus americana Pers. in a tidal marsh. Allard
										(1910b) describes the habits and nots of exigua in
									north Georgia as follows: "This pretty cricket is very active, and not readily
									captured in its natural hiding places in the dense vegetation of wet situations.
									Its notes are a faint, shrill, prolonged tinkling ti-ti-ti-ti-ti-ti-ti-ti. Dwelling in almost impenetrable tangles, it is
									exceedingly difficult to separate the notes of the single singer from among the
									tiny tinkling medley which seems to pervade the atmosphere of the locality. This
									cricket is musical by day and at night."

								
									343. ANAXIPHA PULICARIA
										(Burmeister), 1838, 732.

									Pale brownish-yellow, often with a slight infuscation on head, pronotum and
										hind femora; basal dorsal segments of abdomen brown. Pronotum more than one-half
										wider than long, distinctly widening from apex to base. Tegmina much longer and
										narrower than in exigua, reaching 2 to 4 mm. beyond tip of
										abdomen, male, to its tip, female. Tympanum of male one-half or more longer than
										its width. Other characters as in key. Length of body, ♂, 4.5--5; of tegmina, ♂,
										5, ♀, 3; of hind femora, ♂ and ♀, 4--5; of ovipositor 2.2 mm.
								

								
									Fig. 244. Female, much enlarged. (After Lugger.)
								

								This small compact Gryllid has been taken by me at Dunedin, Fla., where it was
									found in small numbers in March on the low herbage of a recently cleared garden
									tract in the midst of a dense hammock. There it occurred in company with Acrydium arenosum blatchleyi and other ground frequenting
									Orthoptera. A single male was taken Feb. 7 on Hog Island while sweeping low
									shrubs, and another at Lakeland Feb. 16, from between the stems and leaf sheaths
									of a saw-grass. It was described from Jamaica, is known also from Mexico and in
									this country from Raleigh, N. Car. southwest to Brownsville, Tex. In Florida it
									has been taken by others at Gainesville, Miami, Sand Point and Ft. Reed, Scudder's
									types of Cyrtomipha delicatula (1877a, 82) from Ft. Reed having
									been based on the long-winged form of A. pulicaria as shown by
										R. & H. (1912c.) It appears to be much less thamnophilous in
									habits than exigua being more often found in tangles of low
									grasses. weeds and vines in moist woods and on the edges of the salt marshes.


								


								
									343a. ANAXIPHA PULICARIA VITTATA
										(Bolivar), 1888, 159.

									Differs from pulicaria by its smaller, more slender form,
										usually distinctly striped occiput and face and by having the spines of hind
										tibiæ more closely spaced. The under side of abdomen is often wholly black.
										Wings in macropterous examples exceeding the tegmina by 4 mm. Length of body, ♂,
										4--4.5; of tegmina, 4; of wings, 8; of hind femora, 4 mm.
								

								A West Indian form known in this country from Albany, Ga. and Atlantic Beach,
									Punta Gorda and Key West, Fla. From the specimens examined at Philadelphia it
									appears to be only a slender variety of A. pulicaria, the dark
									stripes of occiput and face being often absent, while in pulicaria they are sometimes evident on the occiput. It occurs in similar
									habitats as pulicaria and, like that species, in both the
									macropterous and brachypterus forms. R. & H. (1916, 305) state
									that the individuals devoid of black marks "can only with difficulty be separated
									from small individuals of pulicaria, which species is, however,
									appreciably more robust."

								
									344. ANAXIPHA SCIA
										Hebard, 1915b, 465.

									Dull clay-yellow, clouded with smoky brown; occiput dusky brown, the lower
										face of vertex with a very narrow pale median stripe; tegmina nearly uniform
										smoky brown; femora dull yellow with dark blotches; apical fourth of hind femora
										and entire tibiæ pale dull yellow. Basal joint of hind tarsi equal in length to
										the longest tibial spine; legs longer and more slender than in vittata. Cross veinlets of female tegmina more distinct than in pulicaria. Length of body, ♂ and ♀, 5.2; of tegmina, ♂, 4.5, ♀,
										3.3; of hind femora, 4.7; of ovipositor, 2.7 mm. (Fig. 245, a.)
								
								
									Fig. 245. a, Anaxipha scia, male; b and c, A.
											imitator, male and female, X 4. (After Hebard.)
								

								Described and known from three specimens taken "from among the roots above black
									muck, sodden leaves and tidal litter in a red mangrove swamp on the edge of
									Brickell's Hammock, Miami, Fla.,  March 15--16."
										(Hebard.) A large series may perhaps show that this is but a
									color form of pulicaria due to its peculiar habitat.

								
									345. ANAXIPHA IMITATOR
										(Saussure), 1878, 487.

									Elongate-oblong. Dull smoky brown; sides of body with a solid dark brown
										stripe as described in key; lower face with a wide, V-shaped chocolate-brown
										mark, often also a narrow reddish-brown oblong one between the antennæ; occiput
										and pronotum with dusky blotches. Pronotum distinctly widening from apex to
										base, the latter in male nearly twice the width of former; tegmina surpassing
										abdomen 2--3 mm., exceeded by wings 4--5 mm. in both sexes. Hind femora and
										tegmina reaching tip of ovipositor in female. Basal joint of hind tarsi more
										than twice the length of the other two united. Ovipositor stout, feebly curved,
										very acute. Length of body, ♂, 5.3--6:2, ♀, 4.7--5.4; of tegmina, ♂, 5--5.4, ♀,
										4.4--4.7; of wings, ♂, 7.7--8.6, ♀, 7.4--7.8; of hind femora, ♂ and ♀, 4.3--5;
										of ovipositor, 2--2.5 mm. (Fig. 245, b, c.)
								

								Miami, Fla., March 15--16 (Hebard.) A Cuban species taken in
									numbers by Hebard (1915b), "on the narrow border of sloping ground
									between the jungle of Brickell's Hammock and the red mangrove swamp. There, on the
									ground among a litter of the dried leaves of the species of wild coffee, Psychotria undata Jacq., individuals were found jumping and flying
									nimbly about. They never flew more than a foot or two from the ground, in flight
									suggesting numerous species of small tropical roaches. At 11 A. M. on a cloudy day
									with temperature 70°, the few specimens heard stridulating emitted a trilling
									note, not loud but penetrating, the trills lasting one to two seconds, with the
									normal interval between a little less than one second. This song was not nearly as
									tinkling as that of Cyrtoxipha gundlachi, but still pleasant to
									the ear."
							

							
								II. FALCICULA
									Rehn, 1903f, 258. (Gr., "sickle" + "little.")

								Very small bush crickets closely allied to Anaxipha, but having
									the terminal joint of palpi triangular with apex squarely truncate; stridulating
									organ of male much smaller, confined to the basal fourth of the tegmen, the
									stridulating vein short, transverse; cross veinlets of female tegmen wanting; hind
									femora very short and stout; subgenital plate of male conical, scoop-shaped; cerci
									elongate, tapering, reaching the tips of hind femora. One species is known.

								
									34C. FALCICULA HEBARDI
										Rehn, 1903f, 258. Hebard's Bush Cricket.

									Oblong, compact, robust. Uniform pale yellowish-brown; pronotum often with a
										very narrow pale median line. Antennæ about twice the length of body; pronotum
										nearly one-half wider than long, both it and head with numerous stout-erect
										bristles; tegmina slightly surpassing abdomen, male,  reaching base of ovipositor, female, their tips subtruncate. Wings
										wanting. Ovipositor stout, strongly curved, very minutely serrate. Length of
										body, ♂, 4, ♀, 4.5--5; of tegmina, 2.5; of hind femora, 3.2; of ovipositor, 1.5
										mm.
								

								This, one of the smallest of our eastern Orthoptera, was described from
									Thomasville, Ga. and ranges from Atlantic Co., N. Jersey south and southwest to
									Beaumont and Dickinson, Texas. In Florida it has so far been recorded only from
									two stations. At Gainesville it was found in numbers by R. & H.
										(1907) in the wire grass in long-leaf pine woods, while at Pine Island,
									Hebard found a single pair in similar habitat. It probably occurs in suitable
									environment throughout the northern portion of the State. Wherever found it has
									been taken mainly among the wire grass and fallen pine needles of dry open pine
									woods, where its colors harmonize perfectly with its surroundings. The Cuban
									record of Rehn (1909) was an error, based on a specimen of Anaxipha vittata.
							

							
								III. CYRTOXIPHA
									Saussure, 1874, 373. (Gr., "curved" + "sword.")

								Very small slender-bodied bush crickets possessing the characters given in the
									generic key, and having the head longitudinal, broadly flattened between the eyes;
									last joint of maxillary palpi shorter than fourth, expanding very strongly from
									base to apex, the latter squarely truncate; pronotum much narrowed in front; wings
									always present and prolonged in the form of a tail or queue; front tibiæ slightly
									enlarged at base, with auditory foramen present on both faces; hind femora very
									slender; spines of hind tibiæ very delicate and but slightly longer than the
									spaces between their bases.

								
									KEY TO EASTERN CYRTOXIPHA.

									a. Ovipositor shorter, more slender, not surpassing tips of hind femora,
										its teeth acute; size somewhat smaller, form more slender. 347.
												GUNDLACHI.
									aa. Ovipositor longer and stouter, distinctly surpassing tips of hind
										femora, its teeth bluntly rounded; size larger, form stouter. 347a. COLUMBIANA.
									
								

								
									347. CYRTOXIPHA GUNDLACHI
										Saussure, 1874, 373. Gundlach's Bush Cricket.

									Uniform pale green fading to brownish-yellow; tips of tibial spines and
										apical half of ovipositor blackish. Pronotum one-third broader at base than
										apex, its greatest width one-half more than its length. Tegmina in both sexes
										surpassing abdomen 2--3 mm., exceeded by wings the same distance, those of males
										hyaline with tympanum and subapical spectrum much as in Anaxipha
											exigua; those of female with cross veinlets distinct, not prominent, the
										tips narrowly rounded. Hind femora slightly surpassing  tips of tegmina. Length of body, ♂, 5.5--6, ♀, 6--6.5; of tegmina,
										♂, 4.5--5.5, ♀, 5.5--6.3; of hind femora, ♂, 3.8--4, ♀, 4.2--4.7; of ovipositor,
										2.6--3 mm.
								

								Ormond, Lakeland, Lake Okeechobee, Ft. Myers, Cape Sable, Key West and Dunedin,
									Fla., Oct. 26--Apr. 13 (W. S. B.) Recorded from many localities
									in the southern two-thirds of Florida by other collectors. About Dunedin both
									nymphs and adults occur throughout the winter being often beaten from the low
									branches of oak and bayberry into an umbrella, where their movements are so agile
									that they are captured with difficulty. They occur for the most part on shrubs in
									the vicinity of ponds and lakes and about the borders of wet hammocks, though a
									number have been taken from mangrove and other shrubs on Hog Island.
								In the United States, typical gundlachi is known only from
									Florida, Ormond and Silver Springs being its most northern stations. It is said by
										R. & H. (1916) to be widely distributed in the West Indies and
									known from Central and northern South America. Hebard (1915b) states
									that in March "the very pleasant tinkling song of gundlachi is
									to be heard everywhere on warm evenings about Miami."

								
									347a. CYRTOXIPHA GUNDLACHI COLUMBIANI
										Caudell, 1907b, 237.

									Differs from typical gundlachi only by the characters
										given in key. The average size is perhaps a little larger, but not greater than
										the largest individuals of gundlachi. Length of body to apex
										of tegmina, ♂ and ♀, 8.5; of pronotum, 1.5; of tegmina, 5.6--6.8; of wings,
										7.3--9.4; of hind femora, 5--5.8; of ovipositor, 3.2--3.6 mm.
								

								Orlando, Fla., August 2 (Cotton) ; Ft. Monroe, Va. (Davis.) I regard this as a northern race of C.
										gundlachi, the only difference of any note being in the size and armature
									of the ovipositor. The cross-veinlets of the female tegmina, one of the characters
									used in its separation, are as numerous and almost as prominent in some females of
										gundlachi as in the northern form. Caudell's types of columbiana were from Washington, D. C. and Falls Church, Va. and
									its known range extends from those points south and southwest to Dallas and
									Doucette, Texas. From Florida it has been previously recorded only from Atlantic
									Beach. Of its habits-R. & H. (1916) say: "The species is
									thamnophilous and dendrophilous and has never been found in the least abundant.
									Its small size and retiring habits make it a very difficult insect to collect." It
									occurs on shrubs and small trees; usually near water.
								Allard (1910b) says of its song as noted at Thompson's Mills, Ga.:
									"I have never heard it singing less than six or seven feet  from the ground. I found it abundant on the foliage of peach trees and
									the tallest oaks, also in the low trees and grape vines and very active so that it
									is not easily taken. Its notes are very brief, exceedingly high pitched trills
									which are uttered rapidly and persistently by day and by night. It is, however,
									more strictly a night singer and its great chorus begins late in the afternoon
									and continues far into the night. Once begun it is impossible to single out a
									note; the evening atmosphere everywhere being seemingly filled with an
									indistinguishable silvery trilling."
							

							
								IV. PHYLLOSCYRTUS
									Guerin, 1844, 333. (Gr., "leaf" + "curved.")

								Head wider than pronotum, strongly flattened and declivent between the eyes;
									vertex broad, rounded into the face; eyes prominent, wider than deep; ocelli
									wanting; maxillary palpi stout, terminal joint very large, spoon-shaped, deeply
									and widely concave above, fourth joint small, triangular; pronotum as in key, its
									lateral lobes longer than deep, their lower margin nearly straight, recurved;
									tegmina leathery in texture, slightly exceeding the abdomen in both sexes;
									stridulating organ of male much as in Anaxipha; alternate
									longitudinal veins of female tegmina more prominent, cross veinlets absent; wings
									slightly shorter than tegmina; fore tibiæ with a tympanum on both faces; hind
									tibiæ shorter than the femora, their spines shorter than the interspaces;
									subgenital plate of male short, conical; ovipositor as in Anaxipha. An American genus, 14 species being listed by Kirby, only one of
									which occurs with us, the others inhabiting Mexico and South America.

								
									348. PHYLLOSCYRTUS PULCHELLUS
										Uhler, 1864, 544. Handsome Bush Cricket.

									Head and pronotum bright crimson red; recurved lower margin of lateral lobes
										yellow; antennæ twice the length of body, blackish at base and tip, the middle
										portion yellowish; palpi bluish-black; dorsal field of tegmina reddish- or
										chocolate-brown, the sides black with paler nervules; cerci and legs pale
										yellow; abdomen shining black. Ovipositor brown, paler at base. Head and
										pronotum finely and closely punctate. Structural characters under the genus
										heading. Length of body, ♂ and ♀, 6--7; of tegmina, 5.5; of hind femora, 5.2--6;
										of ovipositor, 3.2--3.5 mm.
								

								This handsome vari-colored little cricket occurs in small numbers in the southern
									half of Indiana, but has not been taken north of Marion County. It reaches
									maturity about mid-August and occurs on low shrubs and vines about the margins of
									ponds and marshes, being especially partial to the foliage of the buttonbush, Cephalanthus occidentalis L. When approached cautiously  it may often be seen vibrating its large maxillary
									palpi in a rapid and curious manner. Uhler's types were from Maryland where he
									said it "was found quite abundantly amongst the grass and low bushes near ditches
									and jumps about with great rapidity."
								The known range of P. pulchellus extends from Staten Island, N.
									Y., west to central Indiana, Kentucky and Illinois and south and southwest to
									central Florida and northern Georgia. In Florida it appears to be very scarce,
									having been taken, as far as known, only at Jacksonville, Monticello, Gainesville
									and Sanford. Of its habits on Staten Island Davis (1896) says: "It
									commonly occurs on bushes and young trees and is often discovered on the sweet
									gum. If there is a dead curled leaf on the branch a male cricket will crawl within
									the chamber thus formed and sing. This is particularly the case on chilly days in
									the fall."
								Allard (1910b) writing of pulchellus, as noted at
									Thompson's Mills, Ga., says: 
										"This pretty cricket dwells on shrubbery usually within two or three feet of
											the ground, and is musical both by day and at night. It is most abundant in
											low grounds bordering streams, although I have occasionally found it in
											thickets in upland situations, and even in the foliage of asters and cotton
											plants. Its song is a weak, high-pitched trill recalling that of Oecanthus quadripunctatus, although not as smooth and as uniform in
											tone. Heard close at hand, the trill is wavering, irregular, with an attendant
											unmusical shuffling or scraping of the wings, as if these were rather slowly
											and loosely vibrated upon each other. During the act of singing the tegmina
											are elevated almost perpendicular to the back, as is the habit in Oecanthus, a rather unusual procedure for almost all our other species
											of crickets."
									
								
							
						

						
							Subfamily VIII. ENEOPTERINÆ. THE LARGER BROWN BUSH CRICKETS.

							Crickets of medium size and usually slender form, having the body and legs finely
								pubescent; head as wide or wider than pronotum; occiput convex; vertex forming a
								blunt oblong protuberance between the basal joints of antennæ; this bearing near its
								middle the anterior ocellus and near its base each side one of the other two; eyes
								widely separated, rather small, not prominent; antennæ setaceous, not more than
								three times the length of body; pronotum subquadrate; tegmina not usually reaching
								the tip of abdomen; wings present, usually concealed by the tegmina; fore and middle
								legs slender, their tibiæ and femora unarmed, the basal joint of their tarsi but
								little if any longer than the third; hind femora only moderately enlarged; hind
								tibiæ armed above on each margin with six to eight rather slender spines with small
									 teeth between them, also with three long inner and
								three short outer subapical spurs; basal joint of hind tarsi stout, usually longer
								than the second and third united; second joint small, flattened, dilated and
								bilobed; subgenital plate of male triangular, conical and scoop-shaped; cerci long,
								slender, tapering, very bristly; ovipositor as in key, its apex slightly enlarged.
									Kirby (1906) recognized 49 genera as belonging to this subfamily.
								These are mostly found in the Old World, only three being represented in the eastern
								States.

							
								KEY TO EASTERN GENERA OF ENEOPTERINÆ.

								a. Tegmina of male with a stridulating organ; fore tibiæ with a hearing
									organ; length of body less than 20 mm.
								b. Fore tibiæ with an auditory organ on inner face only; tegmina rarely
									surpassing tip of abdomen; wings rudimentary or shorter than tegmina; terminal
									joint of maxillary palpi at least one-third longer than the one preceding. I. HAPITHUS.
								bb. Fore tibiæ with auditory organ on both faces; tegmina in both sexes
									surpassing the abdomen; wings slightly surpassing the tegmina; terminal joint of
									maxillary palpi but little longer than the fourth. II. OROCHARIS.
								aa. Tegmina of male without a stridulating organ; fore tibiæ without a
									hearing organ; length of body 23 or more mm. III. TAFALISCA.
							

							
								I. HAPITHUS
									Uhler, 1864, 546.

								In addition to characters given in key the species of Hapithus
									have the head almost globular, narrower than base of pronotum; antennæ about three
									times the length of body, their basal joints much thickened and cylindrical;
									maxillary palpi with last segment enlarged at tip, obliquely truncate; pronotum
									short, narrower in front than behind, the lateral angles rounded, front and hind
									margins truncate; tegmina of male with humeral vein prominent, forming a carina
									along the humeral angle; those of female with anastomosing oblique veins and
									veinlets; wings rudimentary; hind femora quite broad, though but little thickened.
									Three species of the genus are known from our territory, one being an adventive
									only.

								
									KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF HAPITHUS.

									a. Form short, robust; tegmina covering three-fourths or more of
										abdomen.
									b. Antennæ not or very faintly annulate with fuscous; pronotum and
										tegmina a nearly uniform pale brown. (Native species.) 349. AGITATOR.
									bb. Basal half of antennæ distinctly annulate with fuscous; head, thorax
										and tegmina thickly and irregularly sprinkled with fuscous markings; much larger
										and more robust. (Adventive.) VAGUS.


									


									aa. Form elongate, rather slender; tegmina covering less than two-thirds
										of abdomen. 350. BREVIPENNIS.
								

								
									349. HAPITHUS AGITATOR
										Uhler, 1864, 546. Restless Bush Cricket.

									Short, compact, robust. Pale brownish-yellow or dull reddish-brown, a narrow
										line along the humeral vein of tegmina, especially in male, often yellow; face,
										tegmina and femora of female sometimes flecked with small fuscous dots; hind
										femora often tinged with fuscous; occiput, pronotum and all the femora rather
										thickly clothed with prostrate brownish-yellow hairs. Pronotum feebly widening
										from apex to base. Tegmina covering three-fourths or more of abdomen, female,
										usually reaching its tip, male. Ovipositor nearly as long as hind femora, very
										slender, feebly curved, its tip black, but slightly enlarged, crenulate beneath.
										Length of body, ♂, 9--10, ♀, 10--14; of pronotum, ♂, 1.5--2, ♀, 2--2.5; of
										tegmina, , 5.5--6.5, ♀, 6--9; of hind femora, ♂, 7.5--9, ♀, 7.5--11; of
										ovipositor, 7--10 mm.
								

								In Indiana this modest brown bush cricket has been taken only in the southwestern
									counties from Terre Haute to the Ohio River, the adults occurring from August to
									November. In Vigo Co. the first ones discovered were on the slender twigs of some
									prickly-ash shrubs which grew in a damp upland woods. The place was visited a
									number of times and the crickets were always found, perfectly motionless, and
									immediately above or below one of the thorns or prickles jutting forth from the
									twigs. The tips of the hind femora were raised so as to project above the body,
									thus causing them to resemble the thorns; and the color of the insect,
									corresponding closely to that of the bark, made them very difficult to discover
									even when in especial search of them. On every clump of prickly-ash in the woods
									mentioned a number of specimens were secured, but they could be found nowhere else
									thereabouts. A second locality was about the roots of a scarlet oak, Quercus
									coccinea Wang, which grew on a sandy hillside. Here they were plentiful, and
									resting motionless in the depressions of the bark or beneath the leaves in the
									cavities formed by the roots of the tree. A pair were also noted in another place
									on the flowers of golden-rod.
								Of all the males taken in Indiana but one or two had the tegmina entire, and
									usually both tegmina as well as the rudimentary wings were wholly absent, while
									every female had both pairs unharmed. I at first ascribed this wing mutilation to
									the males fighting among themselves, but finally discovered a female in the act of
									devouring the wings of a male. Why this curious habit on the part of one sex?
									Possibly the females require a wing diet to requite them for their bestowed
									affections, or, perchance, they are a jealous set, and, having once gained the
									affections of a male,  devour his tegmina to keep
									him from calling other females about him. It is more than probable, however, that
									the mating of the sexes takes place in a similar manner to that of the white tree
									crickets (Oecanthus), the females gnawing away the tegmina of
									the males in order to more readily reach the alluring glands which lie beneath.
									The openings of these glands, located on the dorsum of the metathorax, are visible
									in dried specimens at hand.
								In Florida I have found H. agitator more common than in
									Indiana, a few specimens having been secured at most of the collecting stations.
									About Dunedin it is taken in winter more commonly in dense hammocks where it
									hibernates in bunches of dead leaves which have lodged in the thick tangles of
									vines and shrubs. The males at that season probably represent a late fall brood
									which have not yet mated as the tegmina are mostly intact, while those taken in
									spring have them partially eaten away. It has been recorded by other collectors
									from numerous localities throughout the State, mostly under the name H. quadratus
									Scudder (1868b, 140), a form relegated to synonymy by both Scudder
									and Saussure, but restored as a valid species by R. & H. (1905,
										52), and again reduced by them to a southern race (1916, 309.) No
									differential characters which can be used in a key can be found in comparing
									southern Indiana and Florida specimens, some of the former being fully as large
									with tegmina and hind femora as long as those from Dunedin. As R. & H.
										(loc. cit.) admit that the two so-called races merge in North Carolina
									and at the most "show little definite differentiation," I do not consider the name
										quadratus worthy of retention. The known range of agitator, as here recognized, extends from Long and Staten Islands, N. Y.,
									west to southern Indiana and eastern Nebraska and south and southwest to southern
									Florida, Cuba and Brownsville, Texas. Uhler (1864) says that about
									Baltimore it inhabits grape vines and dense shrubbery and is found fully developed
									about the middle of September. The Orocharis uhleri
									McNeill (1891, 9) is a synonym of H. agitator.

								
									(--). HAPITHUS VACUS
										Morse, 1916, 178.

									Very large and robust. Dull yellowish-brown, thickly and irregularly mottled
										with darker brown and fuscous; dorsal field of tegmina of female often with
										three or four dusky lines along the veins. Tegmina nearly or quite covering the
										abdomen; wings as long as tegmina. Hind femora relatively short and stout.
										Ovipositor shorter than hind femora, its apex armed beneath with one large and
										several small blunt teeth. Length of body, ♂and ♀, 13--15; of tegmina, 9.5--10;
										of hind femora, 10--12; of ovipositor, 8.5--9 mm.
								



								

								An adventive species found between 1900 and 1905 in the greenhouses of the
									Botanic Garden at Cambridge, Mass., where they did some damage by eating the
									tender green leaves of many kinds of plants, especially ferns. They were thought
									to have come originally from Jamaica. From the descriptions I judge this to be
									very close to, if not identical with, the Apithis annulicornis
									Sauss. (1874, 491) described from Surinam.

								
									350. HAPITHUS BREVIPENNIS
										Saussure, 1897, 268. Short-winged Bush Cricket.

									Elongate-oblong, rather slender. Pale reddish-brown; males with margin of
										dorsal field of tegmina yellow, bordered below with a fuscous line. Apical half
										of terminal joint of palpi much enlarged its apex obliquely truncate. Tegmina
										reaching middle of abdomen, their tips broadly rounded; those of female much
										less reticulate than in agitator. Hind femora relatively
										slender, three-fourths the length of body. Ovipositor straight, very slender,
										its tip not upturned. Length of body, ♂, 11--16, ♀, 15-19; of tegmina, ♂ and ♀,
										6--9; of hind femora, ♂, 11--13.5, ♀, 12.5--15; of ovipositor, 9--11 mm.
								

								This handsome bush cricket is known only from Georgia, Florida and Louisiana, and
									appears to be scarce wherever found. In Florida it has been definitely recorded
									from Atlantic Beach, Gainesville, Live Oak, LaGrange and Cocoanut Grove. It occurs
									for the most part among the tangled undergrowth of rather dry open oak and pine
									woods, the adults being found from July to October.
							

							
								II. OROCHARIS
									Uhler, 1864, 544.

								Elongate, rather slender crickets having the body subdepressed; head short,
									narrower than base of pronotum; vertex flattened, strongly declivent, prolonged to
									form a short beak between the antennæ; maxillary palpi slender, third joint
									longest, cylindrical, fifth slightly longer than fourth, enlarged gradually from
									base, its apex obliquely truncate; antennæ setaceous, three times the length of
									body, the basal joint very stout; pronotum subquadrate, wider than long, front
									margin truncate, ciliate, hind one usually feebly bisinuate; tegmina surpassing
									abdomen 4--6 mm., exceeded by wings 2--4 mm., gradually tapering beyond the
									middle, the marginal area closely enveloping the abdomen; subapical spectrum
									large, enclosing in front a curved vein which parallels the boundary vein of the
									area; fore and middle legs stout, basal joint of their tarsi short, dilated,
									apical joint very slender, nearly as long as the other two united; hind femora
									slender, not reaching tips of tegmina; ovipositor straight, very slender, the tip
									crenate beneath.


								

								
									KEY TO EASTERN SPECIES OF OROCHARIS.

									a. Beak of vertex not compressed, wider than basal joint of antennæ, its
										apex rounded; ocelli very small, widely separated; pronotum thickly pubescent,
										one-half wider than long. 351. SALTATOR.
									aa. Beak of vertex compressed, narrower than basal joint of antennæ, its
										apex subacute; ocelli large, transverse, subcontiguous; pronotum scarcely wider
										than long, almost smooth. 352. GRYLLODES.
								

								
									351. OROCHARIS SALTATOR
										Uhler, 1864, 545. Jumping Bush Cricket.

									Color more or less dimorphic, usually a nearly uniform pale reddish-brown,
										the face flecked with darker brown, sometimes with a faint brown ish or fuscous
										stripe along the side of head and pronotum; often grayish more or less maculate
										with fuscous, when of the latter hue the tegmina of female each usually with a
										small black basal spot and with cross-veinlets darker than those running
										lengthwise, thus giving the dorsal field a checkered appearance; humeral vein of
										tegmina in male often yellow; spines of hind tibiæ tipped with fuscous. Pronotum
										about one-half wider than long, its base but slightly wider than apex.
										Ovipositor dark brown, about a third longer than hind femora, nearly straight.
										Other structural characters under the genus heading. Length of body, ♂ and ♀,
										14--16; of pronotum, ♂, 2.3--2.7, ♀, 2.4--2.9; of tegmina, ♂, 11--14,
										♀,13--14.5; of hind femora, ♂, 7--8, ♀, 8--10; of ovipositor, 11--13 mm. (Fig.
										246.)
								
								
									Fig. 246. Female. (After Lugger.)
								

								This slender bodied bush cricket occurs in small numbers throughout the southern
									half of Indiana, frequenting the undergrowth of dense woods, the thickets along
									the borders of streams and the shrubbery of orchards and yards. A half dozen
									specimens were once found on Aug. 22 concealed in the folds of an old coat hanging
									in a grape arbor near the center of the city of Indianapolis. When disturbed it
									often seeks safety in flight and when it alights flattens out its body close
									against its resting place.
								In Florida it is much more common than in Indiana, scores of specimens in both
									nymph and adult stages having been taken about Dunedin during the winter and
									spring months. There it is often beaten from the lower limbs of oak and other
									trees and also from bunches of leaves, and especially the large epiphyte, Tillandsia utriculata L., in which it is hibernating. Elsewhere in
									the State I have taken it at Ormond, Sanford, Utopia, Lakeland, Cape Sable and Ft.
									Myers. By other collectors it is mentioned only from Jacksonville, Silver Springs,
									Pablo Beach and Miami.
								The known range of O. saltator extends from New Jersey west  to Nebraska and south and southwest to southern
									Florida, Mississippi and Texas. About Baltimore, the type locality, Uhler found it
									very common on Crattgus during September and October. Bruner mentions it (1893a)
									as occurring only occasionally in southeastern Nebraska. Southern specimens have
									been often erroneously recorded as O. gryllodes. Of the
									egg-laying and song habits of this cricket Riley (1881, 62) wrote as
									follows: 
										"In December, 1877, I watched a female of O. saltator
											ovipositing in the end of a dead and rather soft twig of the soft maple at
											Kirkwood. Missouri. The twig had been pruned and the bark was somewhat gnawed
											by the cricket and the eggs thrust in irregularly from the end and from the
											sides. Both wood and pith were crammed with eggs, but all longitudinally
											inally inserted. The favorite nidus of the species is, however, the soft and
											somewhat corky, rough bark of the trunk and older branches of the American
											elm, the eggs being thrust in singly or in small batches, either
											longitudinally with, or very slightly obliquely from, the axis of trunk or
											branch. The female is very intent in the act, working her abdomen deliberately
											from side to side during the perforation.
										"The stridulation of this cricket is a rather soft and musical piping of not
											quite half a second's duration, with from four to six trills, but so rapid
											that they are lost in the distance. The key is very high, but varies in
											different individuals and according to moisture and temperature. It most
											resembles the vibrating touch of the finger on the rim of an ordinary tumbler
											when three-fourths filled with water-repeated at intervals of from two to four
											per second, and it may be very well likened to the piping of a young chick and
											of some tree frogs. As the species is very common in the southwest its chirp
											is everywhere heard and is so distinctive that when once studied it is never
											lost amid the louder racket of the katydids and other night choristers. It is
											frequently heard during the day time in cloudy or damp weather, and I have
											heard it at St. Louis the first days of November after a slight frost.
										"The courting of the sexes is amusing. They face each other and play with
											their antennæ for the best part of an hour or more than an hour. The female
											is, otherwise, pretty quiet, but the male continually mouths the twig or the
											bark upon which the courting is being done, and plays his palpi at a great
											rate, very stealthily approaching nearer to his mate meanwhile. At last the
											antennal fencing ceases and those of the female bend back and then the male
											approaches until their heads touch. He then deliberately turns round, elevates
											the elytra and slips his abdomen under the female, who virtually mounts and
											assists him, his elytra overshadowing her head."
									
								

								
									352. OROCHARIS GRYLLODES
										(Pallas), 1772, 16.

									Elongate, slender. Pale reddish-brown; lateral lobes of pronotum with a
										shining black stripe occupying their upper third and often passing back as a
										narrow line along the humeral vein of tegmina; abdomen black above. Pronotum as
										long as wide, feebly but obviously widening from apex to base, its disk concave
										along the median line. Tegmina surpassing abdomen 4--6 mm., exceeded by wings
										3--4 mm. Hind femora very slender, two-thirds the length of body. Ovipositor
										longer than hind femora, very  slender, tips of
										the valves strongly tapering, acute, armed with one large and several small
										rounded crenations. Length of body, ♂ and ♀, 17--19; of pronotum, 3--3.2; of
										tegmina, 15--18; of hind femora, 12--13; of ovipositor, 13--15 mm.
								

								Dunedin and Cape Sable, Fla., Dec. 21--Feb. 23 (W. S. B.)
									Everglade and Useppa Island, Fla. April (Davis.) My single
									Dunedin female was beaten from mangrove overhanging the water on the eastern or
									bay side of Hog Island, and was at once recognized as different from saltator by the less pubescent surface and the broad shining black stripe
									of lateral lobes. It is a West Indian species taken in this country only in
									southern Florida, having been recorded, principally under the name of O. saulcyi (Guerin), a synonym, from several places south of Punta Gorda
									and Miami, but not heretofore north of the former place. On Key Largo it was found
									by R. & HI. (1912) "in the twilight of the heavy jungle growth by
									vigorously beating the foliage of the lower limbs of the trees and the tangled
									grape and other vines." About Miami in March Hebard (1915b) found
									small colonies in shrubbery and trees about hotels and also several beneath bark
									in Brickell's Hammock. Of its note he says: 
										"The song of this insect was, next to that of Cyrtoxipha
												gundlachi, the most frequent sound heard on warm evenings. The note is
											resonant, baaaaa, repeated incessantly at irregular
											intervals of a few seconds. When singing, the males were found perched upon
											the leaves of heavy bushes with tegmina raised high above their backs;
											considerable difficulty was experienced in locating individual singers."
									
								
							

							
								III. TAFALISCA
									F. Walker, 1869, 52.

								Large robust, subcylindrical crickets having the head vertical as broad as
									thorax; occiput strongly convex; vertex prolonged to form a broad beak between the
									antennæ; ocelli very small; eyes of medium size, longer than wide; maxillary palpi
									with joints 3--5 subequal in length, the fifth club-shaped, concave within;
									antennæ setaceous, more than twice the length of body; tegmina variable in length,
									usually shorter than abdomen, alike in the sexes, their tips narrowly acutely
									rounded, slightly surpassed by the wings; legs short, stout; femora grooved but
									unarmed beneath; spines of hind tibiæ very stout, unequal, those on inner margin
									the longer; basal joint of hind tarsi as wide as the tibiæ, armed above with three
									stout spines and at apex with a pair of spurs longer than the joint itself; third
									joint very slender, as long as the other two united.


								


								
									353. TAFALISCA LURIDA
										F. Walker, 1869, 53.

									Dull brownish-yellow, often tinged with fuscous; finely pubescent; antennæ
										and hind tibiæ dark reddish-brown; abdomen fuscous; ovipositor dark brown. Hind
										femora rather slender, feebly surpassing abdomen. Ovipositor slender, the tips
										of its valves black, flattened, their outer margins very finely crenate and
										apical fourth nodulose above. Other structural characters as given above. Length
										of body, ♂, 23--25, ♀, 25--30; of tegmina, ♂, 16--18, ♀, 18--21; of hind femora,
										♂, 14--16; ♀, 17--22; of ovipositor, 15--16 mm.
								

								Dunedin, Lake Okeechobee, Cape Sable and Key West, Fla., Feb. 23--March 26,
									nymphs only (W. S. B.); LaGrange and Big Pine Key, Fla.,
									September, adults (Davis.) At Dunedin I took a single nymph,
									March 26, by beating the Florida buttonwood, Conocarpus erecta
									L. on Hog Island. This is also a West Indian species but is recorded from a number
									of stations in the southern third of Florida, where it occurs in the nymph stages
									during the winter and spring months and evidently reaches maturity about June 1st.
									Dunedin is its most northern known locality.

								
									AREA AND LIFE ZONES COVERED.

									As has been noted on page three this work deals primarily only with those
										species of Orthoptera known to occur in the United States east of the
										Mississippi River and in Canada east of the 90th Meridian. However, many of the
										species of which it treats range over a much wider area to the north and west
										and a number of them have their principal distribution west of the Mississippi,
										the prairies and sand areas of Illinois and Indiana comprising the eastern
										limits of their range.
									All of the recognized Life Zones of the United States and their characteristic
										faunas are represented in the area covered. The student must bear in mind that
										the fauna of no one of these life zones has a definite sharp and fixed boundary
										line, but that each overlaps and merges with the one above and the one below.
										Moreover, aside from those of the Hudsonian and Tropical zones, but few of the
										species of Orthoptera are limited to any one zone and some of them, as Conoceplialus fasciatus (DeGeer), occur in all the zones.
										Mentioned in order from the most northern, these life zones and faunas are as
										follows:
									HUDSONIAN LIFE ZONE.--Of the area treated this zone includes all of Labrador,
										Newfoundland, New Brunswick and Quebec, eastern Nova Scotia, the northern
										portions of Ontario and New England, the northern Peninsula of Michigan and
										isolated areas on the summits of the higher mountains of New York, Pennsylvania,
											 Virginia and western North Carolina. The fauna
										of this zone is known as the Boreal, three of its typical
										Orthoptera being Circotettix verruculatus (Kirby), Podisma glacialis (Scudd.) and Melanoplus
											borealis (Fieb.)
									TRANSITION LIFE ZONE.--The area of this zone treated includes southern Ontario, Michigan
										and New England, the greater portions of New York, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin,
										the northern fourth of Ohio, Indiana and Illinois, and the region of the
										Alleghany Mountains in West Virginia and North Carolina. Its fauna is known as
										the Alleghanian. Among its characteristic Orthoptera are Chorthippus curtipennis (Harr.), Camnula
											pellucida (Scudd.) and Melanopius fasciatus
										(Walker.)
									UPPER AUSTRAL LIFE
											ZONE.--This zone as covered, includes the greater portion
										of Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Kentucky, Tennessee, New Jersey and Maryland,
										western North Carolina and the northern portions of South Carolina, Georgia and
										Alabama. Small areas near the Great Lakes in Wisconsin, southern Michigan and
										New York are also included. Its fauna is known as the Carolinian and comprises the great majority of our common northern and
										best known Orthoptera. Among them may be mentioned Chlœaltis
											conspersa Harr., Melanoplus femur-rubrum (DeGeer) and
											Pterophylla camellifolia (Fab.)
									LOWER AUSTRAL LIFE
											ZONE.--This comprises in our territory eastern Virginia and
										North Carolina, the most of the southern two-thirds or more of South Carolina,
										Georgia and Alabama, almost all of Mississippi, the western thirds of Kentucky
										and Tennessee and a portion of the southern thirds of Illinois and Indiana. This
										zone embraces, for the most part, the Coastal Plain region of the South Atlantic
										States, its soft incoherent deposits and extensive marsh areas being separated
										from the harder rocks and rugged topography of the Piedmont Plateau on the north
										and west by what is known as the "fall line." This line extends in a curve from
										near Washington, D. C. to Columbus, Ga. The fauna of the Lower Austral Zone is
										known as the Austroriparian, and among its characteristic
										Orthoptera may be mentioned Stagmomantis carolina (Joh.), Schistocerca damnifica (Sauss.) and Amblycorypha
											uhleri Brunn.
									SABALIAN LIFE ZONE.--This zone comprises the northern three-fourths of peninsular Florida
										and a narrow strip known as the Lower Coastal Plain along the Atlantic and Gulf
										coasts from Pamlico Sound, North Car., to New Orleans, La. Its fauna is known as
										the Subtropical and comprises such species as Aglaopteryx  gemma Hebard, Belocephalus subapterus Scudd. and Atlanticus
											calcaratus R. & H.
									TROPICAL LIFE ZONE.--This zone, which on this continent embraces the West Indies, Central
										America and a part of Mexico and northern South America, covers in our territory
										only the southern fourth of peninsular Florida and its southern keys. Its fauna
										is also known as the Tropical and the Orthoptera are largely
										introduced species from the West Indies and other countries. Among them may be
										named Blaberus craniifer Burm., Mantoida
											maya S. & Z. and Tafalisca lurida Walker.
									Of the 353 indigenous or established species and 58 varieties of Orthoptera
										recognized from the region covered, 139 species and 17 varieties occur in
										Indiana and 181 species and 32 varieties in Florida. Of these 60 species and
										seven varieties are common to both states, thus leaving 93 species and 16
										varieties which occur in the region covered outside of these two states. The
										distribution by families is as follows:
									
										
											 
											Indiana.
											Florida.
											Common to Both States.
											Outside Territory.
											Total No. Recognized.
										
										
											 
											Sp.
											Var.
											Sp.
											Var.
											Sp.
											Var.
											Sp.
											Var.
											Sp.
											Var.
										
										
											Forficulidæ
											3
											
											9
											
											1
											
											1
											
											12
											
										
										
											Blattidæ
											11
											
											24
											1
											7
											
											2
											1
											30
											2
										
										
											Mantidæ
											2
											
											7
											
											2
											
											2
											
											9
											
										
										
											Phasmidæ
											3
											
											5
											
											1
											
											5
											
											12
											
										
										
											Tetrigidæ
											8
											5
											9
											3
											6
											1
											5
											1
											16
											8
										
										
											Acrididæ
											50
											3
											52
											11
											22
											1
											50
											7
											130
											20
										
										
											Tettigoniidæ
											40
											3
											46
											9
											10
											1
											21
											3
											97
											14
										
										
											Gryllidæ
											22
											6
											29
											8
											11
											4
											7
											4
											47
											14
										
										
											Total
											139
											17
											181
											32
											60
											7
											93
											16
											353
											58
										
									
								
							
						
					
				
			

		
		

			
				BIBLIOGRAPHY.

				This is a list only of the works cited in this volume, arranged alphabetically by authors
					and years of publication. See p. 8 of the Introduction. A more complete Bibliography of
					Orthopterological literature up to the year 1900, especially that of foreign authors, will
					be found in Scudder's "Index to North American Orthoptera."

				
					ALLARD, H. A.--1910--Some New England Orthoptera Observed in Late
						October.<Ent. News, XXI, 352-357. 
							1910a--Concephalus fusco-striatus in North Georgia.<Ent. News, XXI,
								291-292.
							1910b--Musical Crickets and Locusts in North Georgia.<Proc. Ent. Washington,
								XII, 32-43, pl. IV.
							1910c--The Stridulations of Some Cone-headed Grasshoppers
								(Conocephalus).<Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., XII, 121-124, pl. VI.
							1911--The Musical Habits of Some New England Orthoptera in September.<Ent.
								News, XXII, 28-39.
							1911a--The Stridulation of some Eastern and Southern Crickets.<Ent. News,
								XXII, 154-157.
							1911b--The Stridulations of Two Interesting Locustide.<Psyche, XVIII,
								118-119.


							


							1911c--Studying the Stridulations of Orthoptera.<Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., XIII,
								141--148.
							1912--Variations in the Stridulations of Orthoptera.<Ent. News, XXIII,
								460--462.
							1914--Locust Stridulation.<Ent. News, XXV, 463--466.
							1916--Some North Georgia Acrididae.<Can. Ent., XLVIII, 274--279.
							1916a--Some Musical Orthoptera at Clarendon, Virginia.<Can. Ent., XLVIII,
								356--358.
						
					BAKER, C. F.--1905--Second Report on Pacific Slope
						Orthoptera.<Invertebrata Pacifica, I, 71--84.
					BALL, E. B.--1897--Notes on the Orthopterous Fauna of
						Iowa.<Proc. Iowa Acad. Sci., IV, 234--241.
					BANKS, NATHAN--1906--A Plea for the
						Genus.<Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., VIII, 37--43. 
							1909--Directions for Collecting and Preserving Insects.<Bull. 67, U. S. Nat.
								Mus., 1--135.
						
					BARRETT, O. W.--1902--The Changa or Mole Cricket (Scapteriscus
						didactylus Latr.) in Porto Rico.<Bull. No. 2, Porto Rico Agr. Exp. Sta.,
						1--19.
					BAUMGARTNER, W. J.--1910--Observations on the Gryllidæ; III.
						Notes on the Classification and on some Habits of Certain Crickets.<Kansas Univ. Sci.
						Bull., V, 309--319. 
							1910a--Same, IV. Copulation.<Ibid. 323--345.
						
					BEAUVOIS, A. M. F. J. PALISOT
						DE--1805--Insectes recueillis en Afrique. et en Amerique dans les royaumes d'Oware
						a Saint-Domingue et dans les Etats-unis pendant les annees 1786-1797. Pp. 16+276, pls.
						1--90. Paris.
					BEUTENMULLER, WM.--1894--Descriptive Catalogue
						of the Orthoptera Found Within Fifty Miles of New York City.<Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat.
						Hist., VI, 253--316, pls. V--X. 
							1894a--Notes on some Species of North American Orthoptera, with Descriptions of
								New Species.<Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., VI, 249--252.
							1894b--Description of a New Tree Cricket.<Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., II,
								56.
							1903--A New Katydid from Florida.<Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., XIX,
								637--638.
						
					BLANCHARD, E. C.--1836--Mante. Mantis Linne.<Guerin-Meneville,
						Mag. de Zool.-Insectes, V, Classe IX, pl. 135.
					BLATCHLEY, W. S.--1891--Some Indiana AcrididT-I.<Can. Ent.,
						XXIII, 74-81, 98--100. 
							1892--The Gryllidæ of Indiana.<Proc. Ind. Acad. Sci., 1891, 126--144.
								Indianapolis.
							1892a--Some Indiana Acrididee-II.<Can. Ent., XXIV, 28--34.
							1892b--Two New Orthoptera from Indiana.<Can. Ent., XXIV, 26--27.
							1893--The Locustidæ of Indiana.<Proc. Ind. Acad. Sci., 1892, 92--153.
							1893a--The Blattidæ of Indiana.<Proc. Ind. Acad. Sci., 1892, 153--165.
							1893b--An Unusual Appearance of Schistocerca Americana.<Psyche, VI,
								465--466.
							1893c--Some New Locustidæ from Indiana.<Can. Ent., XXV, 89--93.
							1894--Some Indiana Acrididæ-III.<Can. Ent., XXVI, 217--223, 241--245.
							1895--Notes on the Winter Insect Fauna of Vigo County, Indiana.< Psyche, VII,
								248--250.
							1896--Miscellaneous Notes.<Can. Ent., XXVIII, 265--266.
							1897--Indiana Caves and Their Fauna.<21st Ann. Rept. Ind. Dept. Geology and
								Nat. Resources, 1896, 121-0212, pls. IV--XII. Indianapolis.
							1898--Some Indiana Acrididæ-IV.<Can. Ent., XXX, 54--64.
							1898a--Two New Melanopli from Les Cheneaux Islands, Michigan.< Psyche, VIII,
								195--197.
							1899--Katydids and Their Kin: or the Orthoptera of Indiana.<Gleanings from
								Nature, 197--244, figs. 41-70. Indianapolis.



							


							1900--On the Species of Nemobius Known to Occur in Indiana.<Psyche, IX,
								51--54.
							1902--A Nature Wooing at Ormond by the Sea. Pp. 1--245, pls. I--XII, figs.
								1--63. Indianapolis.
							1903--The Orthoptera of Indiana. An Illustrated Descriptive Catalogue of the
								Species Known to Occur in the State, with Bibliography, Synonymy and Descriptions of
								New Species.<27th Ann. Rep. Ind. Dep. of Geol. and Nat. Resources, pp. 123--471,
								pls. I--II, figs. 1--122. Indianapolis.
						
					BOLIVAR, IGNACIO--1887--Essai sur les
						Acridiens de la tribu Tettigidae.< Ann. Soc. Ent. Belg., XXXI, 175--313, pls. 1--2.
						Bruxelles. 
							1888--Enumeration des Orthopteres de l'Ile de Cuba.<Mem. Soc. Zool. Fr., I,
								116-164.
						
					BRIMLEY, C. S.--1908--Notes on the Orthoptera of Raleigh, North
						Carolina, <Ent. News, XIX, 16--21.
					BRITTON, W. E.--1904--New England Records for Eritettix carinatus
						Scudder and Conocephalus triops Linn.<Psyche, XI, 23.
					BRUNER, LAWRENCE--1876--New Species of
						Nebraska Acrididæ.<Can. Ent., VIII, 123--125. 
							1884--Two New Myrmecophilæ from the United States.<Can. Ent., XVI,
								41--43.
							1885--First Contribution to a Knowledge of the Orthoptera of Kansas. <Bull.
								Washburn College Lab. Nat. Hist., I, 125--139. Topeka.
							1885a--Contributions to the North Trans-Continental Survey. Orthoptera.<Can.
								Ent., XVII, 9--19.
							1886--Second contribution to a Knowledge of the Orthoptera of Kansas.<Bull.
								Washburn Coll. Lab. Nat. Hist., I, 193--200.
							1887--Report on Locusts in Texas during the Spring of 1886.<Bull. 13 (O. S.),
								U. S. Div. Ent., 9--19.
							1890--New North American Acrididæ found North of the Mexican Boundary.<Proc.
								U. S. Nat. Mus., XII, 47--82., pl 1.
							1891--Ten New Species of Orthoptera from Nebraska, with Notes on the Habits,
								Wing Variation, etc.<Can. Ent., XXIII, 36--40, 56--59,70--73.
							1892--Report on Destructive Locusts.<Bull. 27 (O. S.), U. S. Div. Ent.,
								9--33.
							1892a--A Change in the Name of a Recently Described Species of
								Orchelimum.<Ent. News, III, 264--265.
							1893--The More Destructive Locusts of America North of Mexico.< Bull. 28 (O.
								S.), U. S. Div. Ent., 1--40.
							1893a--A List of Nebraska Orthoptera.<Publications Neb. Acad. Sci.. III,
								19--33. Lincoln.
							1893b--The Insect Enemies of Small Grains.<Rep. Neb. St. Bd. Agr., 359--468.
								Lincoln.
							1893c--Notes on the Wing Color of North American, Locusts belonging to the
								Subfamily Oedipodinæ and its Seeming Relation to Climatic Conditions.<Science,
								XXI (O. S.), 133.
							1895--Insect Enemies of the Grape Vine.<Neb. St. Hort. Rep., 68--162.
							1895a--Directions for Collecting, Preparing and Preserving Specimens of
								Orthoptera for the Cabinet.<Special Bull. Dep. Ent. Univ. Neb., II, 1--8.
							1897--The Grasshoppers that Occur in Nebraska.<Ann. Rep. Ent. Neb. State Bd.
								Agr., 1896, 105--138.
							1899--A New Conocephalus.<Ent. News, X, 38--39.
							1904--Some New Colorado Orthoptera.<Bull. No. 94, Agr. Exp. Sta. Col.,
								57--67.
							1905--Concerning the Locust Genus Mestobregma Scudder.<Ent. News, XVI,
								259--260.
						
					BRUNNER, VON WATTENWYL, CARL--1865--Nouveau Systeme des Blattaires. Pp. 1--426, pls. 1--13. Vienna. 
							1878--Monographie der Phaneropteriden.<K. K. Zool. Botan. Gesells. in Wien.
								Pp. 1--401, pis. I--VIII. Vienna.
							1888--Monographie der Stenopelmatiden und Grillacriden.<Verhand. Zool. Botan.
								Gesells., XXXVIII, 247--394, pls. V--VIII. Wien.


							

							1893--Revision du Systeme des Orthopteres et Descriptiones des Especies
								Rapportees.<Ann. Mus. Civ. Stor. Nat., 1--230, pls. I--VI. Geneva.
							1895--Monographie der Pseudophylliden.<Der K. K. Zool. Botan. Gesell. in
								Wien. Pp. iv+282, pls. I--X.
							1907--Phasmidæ Anareolatæ (Clitumnini, Lonchodini, Bacunculini).< Die
								Insekten-familie der Phasmiden, 4to., Pt. II, 181--338, pls. VII--XV.
								Leipzig.
						
					BURMEISTER, HERMAN--1838--Handbuch der
						Entomologie, II--Orthoptera. Pp. 459--756. Berlin.
					BURR, MALCOLM--1897--British Orthoptera. Pp.
						1--69, pls. I--V. London. 
							1902--Monograph of the Genus Acrida Stål (Truxalis Fabr.) With Notes of some
								Allied Genera and Descriptions of New Species.< Trans. Entom. Soc. London, Pt.
								II, 149--187.
							1904--Synopsis of the Orthoptera of Western Europe--Division II:
								Acridiodea.<Entom. Rec. & Journ. Var., XVI, 317--323.
							1907--A Preliminary Revision of the Forficulidæ and of the Chelisochidiæ,
								families of the Dermaptoptera.<Trans. Ent. Soc. Lond., 91--134, pl. IV.
							1910--The Dermaptera (Earwigs) of the U. S. National Museum.< Proc. U. S.
								Nat. Mus., Vol. 38, 443--467.
							1911--Dermaptera.<122d Fas. Gen. Insect. 4to. Pp. 1--112, pls. I--IX.
							1911a--Vorlaufige Revision der Labiiden.<Deutsch, Ent. Nat. Biblioth., II,
								58--61.
							1915--On the Male Genital Armature of the Dermaptera. Part II,
								Psalidæ.<Journ. Roy, Micros. Soc., 521--546, pls. X--XII.
						
					CAUDELL, A. N.--1900-Orthoptera of the Harriman Alaska
						Expedition.< Proc. Wash. Acad. Sci., II, 511--512. 
							1902--Notes on Orthoptera from Oklahoma and Indian Territory with Descriptions
								of Three New Species.<Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc., XXVIII, 83--91.
							1903--Notes on Orthoptera from Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona and Texas, with
								Descriptions of New Species.<Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Vol. 27, 775--809, pl.
								LV.
							1903a--The Phasmidæ or Walking-sticks of the United States.<Proc. U. S. Nat.
								Mus., Vol. 26, 863--885, pls. LVIII--LIX. Washington.
							1903b--Notes on Nomenclature of Blattidæ.<Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., V,
								232--234.
							1904--Two Orthoptera Hitherto Unrecorded from the United States.< Proc. U. S.
								Nat. Mus., Vol. 27, 949--952.
							1904a--A New Species of the Locustrian Genus Amblycorypha from Kansas.<Journ.
								N. Y. Ent. Soc., XIII, 50.
							1904b--Some Orthoptera taken at Moose Jaw, Assiniboia.<Can. Ent., XXXVI,
								248.
							1904c--Orthoptera from Southwestern Texas.<Science Bull. Vol. I, No. 4, Mus.
								Brook. Inst. Arts & Sci., 105--116, pls. VI--VIII.
							1904d--Notes on Some Orthoptera from British Columbia.<Ent. News, XV,
								62--63.
							1904e--An Orthopterous Leafroller.<Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., VI, No. 1,
								46--49.
							1904f--Synonymy of Oedipoda cincta Thomas.<Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., VI, No. 2,
								125.
							1904g--Injury by a Cricket in the South.<Bull. 44, U. S. Div. Ent.,
								88--89.
							1905--Notes on Some Florida Orthoptera.<Ent. News, XVI, 216--219.
							1905a--On a Collection of Orthoptera from Southern Arizona with Descriptions of
								New Species.<Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Vol. 28, 461-477.
							1905b--Aplopus mayeri, New Species.<Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., XIII,
								83--85.
							1905c--A New Bacunculus from Indiana.<Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., XIII,
								212.
							1905d-Kirby's Catalogue of Orthoptera, Vol. I.<Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., VII,
								84--88.


							


							1906--The Cyrtophylli of the United States.<Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., XIV,
								32--45, pl. I.
							1907--The Decticin (A Group of Orthoptera) of North America.< Proc. U. S.
								Nat. Mus., Vol. 32, 285--410.
							1907a--On some Forficulidæ of the United States and West Indies.< Journ. N.
								Y. Ent. Soc., XV. 166--170.
							1907b--A New Cyrtoxipha from the United States.<Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., XV,
								237.
							1907c--Notes on United States Orthoptera with a Description of One New
								Species.<Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., VIII, Nos. 3--4, 133--135.
							1907d-Kirby's Catalogue of Orthoptera, Vol. II.<Can. Ent., XXXIX,
								287--292.
							1908--Orthoptera--Family Locustidæ--Subfamily Decticinm.<72d Fasc., Gen.
								Insect. 4to. Pp., 1--43, pls. 1--2.
							1908a--Notes on Some Western Orthoptera with a Description of One New
								Species.<Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Vol. 34, 71--81.
							1910--A New Xiphidion from Northern Georgia.<Ent. News, XXI, 58--59.
							1910a--On the Genus Conocephalus.<Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., XII, 95--96.
							1911--Some Remarks on Kirby's Synonymic Catalogue of Orthoptera, Vol. III, with
								Additional Notes on Vols. I and II.<Ent. News, XXII, 158--167.
							1912-Notes on the Mantid Genus Gonatista Sauss.<Psyche, XIX, 160--162.
							1913--Notes on Nearctic Orthopterous Insects: I--Nonsaltatorial Forms.<Proc.
								U. S. Nat. Mus., Vol. 44, 595--614.
							1915--Notes on Some United States Grasshoppers of the Family Acrididæ. <Proc.
								U. S. Nat. Mus., Vol. 49, 25--31.
							1915a--Dendrotetix quercus Packard.<Psyche, XXII, 52--54.
							1916--The Genera of the Tettigoniid Insects of the Subfamily Rhaphidophorinæ
								Found in America North of Mexico.<Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Vol. 49,
								655--690.
							1916a--Nomenclatorial Consistency.<Science, N. S., XLIII, 852--853.
							1916b--An Economic Consideration of Orthoptera Directly Affecting Man.<Proc.
								Ent. Soc. Wash., XVIII, 84--92.
							1918--Regarding Diapheromera veliei Walsh and Manomera blatchleyi
								Caudell.<Ent. News, XXIX, 258--260.
							1918a--Homorocoryphus malivolans Scudd. in Texas; <Bull. Brook. Ent. Soc.,
								XIII, 21.
							1918b--Two New Species of the Blattid Genus Arenivaga.<Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash.,
								XX, 154--157.
						
					CAUDELL, A. N. & HEBARD, MORGAN--1912--Fixation of the Single Type (Lectotypic)
						Specimens of Species of American Orthoptera (Described by Caudell).<Proc. Acad. Nat.
						Sci. Phil., 157--168.
					CAULFIELD, F. B.--1888--Sketch of Canadian Orthoptera.<l8th Ann. Rep. Ent. Soc.
						Ont., 59--72. Toronto.
					COMSTOCK, J. H.--1888--Orthoptera.<An Introduction to Entomology, I, 87--122.
						Ithaca.
					COMSTOCK, J. H. & A. B.--1895--A Manual for the Study of Insects. Pp. 12+701,
						pls. I--VI. Ithaca.
					DAVIS, W. T.--1887--Notes on the Locustidæ with Description of a New
						Species.<Can. Ent., XIX, 56, 57. 
							1889--List of the Orthoptera found on Staten Island.<Entom. Amer., V,
								78-81.
							1891--Additions to the List of Staten Island Orthoptera.<Proc. Nat. Sci.
								Assoc. Stat. Isl., Feb., 14, 1891.
							1893--The Song of Thyreonotus.<Can. Ent., XXV, 108--109.
							1895--Insects at Watchogue and Beulah Land, Staten Island, N. Y.< Journ. N.
								Y. Entom. Soc., III, 140--143.
							1896--Notes on Crickets and Other Staten Island Orthoptera.<Proc. Nat. Sci.
								Assoc., of Stat. Isl., V, 96--97.
							1904--An Arboreal Orchelimum.<Can. Ent,, XXXVI, 132.
							1905--The Red-headed Orchelimum and Some Other New Jersey Orthoptera. <Can.
								Ent., XXXVII, 288--289.


							


							1907--A New Tree Cricket from Staten Island and New Jersey.<Can. Ent., XXXIX,
								173--174.
							1908--A New Orchelimum from Staten Island and New Jersey.<Journ. N. .. Ent.
								Soc., XVI, 222--223.
							1909--A New Orchelimum from New Jersey.<Can. Ent., XLI, 33--34.
							1909a--A Cricket New to New Jersey.<Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., XVII,
								187--188.
							1909b--Notes on New Jersey Orthoptera.<Ent. News, XX, 138.
							1911--Notes on Two Conocephalids.<Can. Ent., XLIII, 413.
							1911a--Miscellaneous Notes on Collecting in Georgia.<Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc.,
								XIX, 216--219.
							1912--An Injurious Grasshopper at Ridgeway, New Jersey.<Ent. News, XXIII,
								2--3.
							1912a--Three New Species of Belocephalus from Florida.<Journ. N. Y. Ent.
								Soc., XX, 122--125.
							1913--Two Additions to the List of New Jersey Cone-headed Grasshoppers.
								<Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., XXI, 177--178.
							1914--Notes on Orthoptera from the East Coast of Florida with descriptions of
								Two New Species of Belocephalus.<Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., XXII, 191--205.
							1914a--A Cricket New to Long Island, N. Y.<Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., XXII,
								171.
							1915--List of the Orthoptera Collected in Northern Florida in 1914 for the
								American Museum of Natural History with Descriptions of New Species.<Journ. N. Y.
								Ent. Soc., XXIII, 91--101.
							1915a--A New Species of Atlanticus from the Mountains of Georgia and North
								Carolina.<Bull. Brook, Ent. Soc., IX, 1914, 104--106.
							1915b--Dendrotettix quercus Riley, at Yaphank, Long Island, N. Y.< Bull.
								Brook. Ent. Soc., X, 33--34.
							1918--Introduction of Palæarctic Preying Mantids into the North Atlantic
								States.<Bull. Brook Ent. Soc., XIII, 73--76.
							1919--A New Stagmomantis from Florida.<Bull. Brook. Ent. Soc., XIV, 4--7, pl.
								1.
							1919a--The Males of the Roach, Pycnoscelis surinamensis.<Journ. N. Y. Ent.
								Soc., XXVII, 108--109.
						
					DODGE, CHAS. R.--1872--Notes of a Cowcatcher
						Ride Through Nebraska.< Can. Ent., IV, 14--16. 
							1877--The "Lubber" Grasshopper.<Field and Forest, II, 160--161.
						
					DODGE, G. M.--1876--New Species of Acridini from
						Nebraska.<Can. Ent., VIII, 9--12. 
							1877--New Species of Orthoptera.<Can. Ent., IX, 111--113.
						
					DRURY, D.--1770--1782--Illustrations of Natural History, 3 Vols.
						I, pp. 28+130, pls. 1--50; II, 7+92, pls. 1--50; III, 26+76, pls. 1--50. 4to.
						London.
					FABRICIS, JOHANN C.--1775--Systema entomologiæ
						sistens insectorum, synonymis, locis, descriptionibus, observationibus. Pp. 32+832.
						Flensburgi et Lipsiæ. 
							1781--Species insectorum exhibentes eorum differentias specificas, etc. I. Pp.
								8-+52; II, 2+494. Hamburgi et Kilonii.
							1793--Entomologia Systematica emendata et aucta secundum classes, etc.--II, Pp.
								1--62. Hafniæ.
							1798--Supplementum Entomologiæ Systematicæ, 4+572 pp. Hafniæ.
						
					FERNALD, C. H.--1888--The Orthoptera of New England.<Ann. Rep.
						Mass. Agr. Coll., XXV, 89--145. Auth. Sep., pp. 1--61.
					FIEBER, F. X.--1852--I Kelch Grundlage zur Kenntniss der
						Orthoptera Oberschlessens.<Zu der Off. Prufung., 1--20, Apr. 5 and 6. 
							1853--Synopsis der Europaischen Orthopteren mit besonderer rucksicht auf die in
								Bohmen vorkommender arten.<Lotos, III, 90--104, 115--129, 138--154, 168--176,
								184--188, 201--207, 232--238, 252--258. Prag.
						
					FISCHER, L. H.--1853--Orthoptera Europma. Pp. 20+454, pls. 1--18.
						Lipsiæ.
					FITCH, ASA--1856--Third Report on the Noxious
						and Other Insects of the State of New York.<Trans. N. Y. State Agric. Soc., XVI,
						321--507. Albany.



					


					FLETCHER, JAMES--1892--The Northern Mole
						Cricket.<Can. Ent., XXIV, 23--25.
					FORBES, S. A.--1905--The More Important Insects Injurious to
						Indian Corn. <23rd Rep. St. Entom., Ill. pp. 1--273, pls. I--VIII.
					FOREL, A.--1887--Experiences et remarques critiques sur les
						sensations des Insects.<Recueil Zool. Suisse., IV, 145--240.
					FOX, HENRY--1912--Two Apparently Hithero
						Undescribed Species of Xiphidium from the Salt Marshes of the Atlantic Coast of the
						United States.<Ent. News, XXIII, 111--119, pls. VIII--IX. 
							1914--Data on the Orthopteran Faunistics of Eastern Pennsylvania and Southern
								New Jersey.<Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., 441--534.
							1915--Notes on Orthoptera and Orthopteran Habitats in the Vicinity of Lafayette,
								Ind.<Proc. Ind. Acad. Sci., 1914, 287--321, Auth. Sep. pp. 1--35.
							1917--Field Notes on Virginia Orthoptera.<Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Vol. 52,
								199--234.
							1918--On a Long-winged or Caudate Phase of Neotettix proavus Rehn and
								Hebard.<Ent. News, XXIX, 347--349.
						
					FULTON, BENTLEY B.--1915-The Tree Crickets of
						New York; Life History and Bionomics.<Tech. Bull. No. 42, N. Y. Agr. Exp. Sta.,
						Geneva, N. Y., pp. 1--47, pls. I--VI.
					GARMAN, H.--1891--On a Singular Gland Possessed by the Male of
						Hadenœcus subterraneus.<Psyche, VI, 105. 
							1894--The Orthoptera of Kentucky.<Sixth Ann. Rep. Ky. Agr. Exp. Sta., 23--24.
								Auth. Sep., pp. 1--10.
						
					GEER, DE KAREL--1773--Memoires pour servir a
						l'histoire des insectes. Orthoptera, III, 399--554, pls. 21--25. Stockholm.
					GÉNÉ, GUSEPPE--1832--Saggio di Una Monografia
						Delle Forficule Indigene.<Ann. Sci. Nat. Regn. Lomb.--Venet., II, 4to., 215--228.
						Auth. Sep., pp. 1--16.
					GEOFFROY, M.--1764--Histoire abregee des Insecten--Orthoptera, I,
						379--407. Paris.
					GERMAR, ERNEST F.-1-838-In Burmeister's
						Handbuch der Entomologie, II. Berlin.
					GERSTÆCKER, CARL EDWARD--1860--Ueber die Locustinen gattung Gryllacris.<Wiegm., Arch. naturg.,
						XXVI, 245--278. Berlin. 
							1863--Arthropoden (Orthoptera).<Hartwig & Carus Handbuch der Zoologie,
								37--67.
						
					GIGLIO-TOS, E--1894--Viaggio del dott. Alfredo
						Borelli nella Republica Argentina e nel Paraguay; VII. Ortotteri.<Boll. Mus. Torino,
						IX, No. 184, Vol. IX, 1--46, pl. 1.
					GILLETTE, C. P.--1904--Annotated List of Colorado Orthoptera from
						Material in the Collections of the Colorado Agr. College and Agr. Experiment
						Station.<Bull. 94, Colo. Agr. Exp. Sta., 17--56.
					GLOVER, TOWNEND--1871--Report of the
						Entomologist.<Ann. Rep. U. S. Dept. Agr., 1870, 65--91. Washington. 
							1872--Report of the Entomologist.<Ann. Rep. U. S. Dept. Agr., 1871,
								69--88.
							1872a--Illustrations of North American Entomology--Orthoptera. Pp. 5+11, pls.
								1--18. Washington.
							1875--Report of the Entomologist.<Ann. Rep. U. S. Dept. Agr., 1874,
								122--146.
						
					GOODERHAM, C. B.--1917--The Acrididæ of Nova Scotia.<Proc.
						Ent. Soc. N. Scot., 1916, 21--30, pl. V.
					GRAY, GEORGE R.--1835--Synopsis of the Species
						of Insects Belonging to the the Family of Phasmidæ. Pp. 4+48. London.
					GUERIN-MENEVILLE, F.
						E.--1829--1844--Iconographie du Regne Animal de G. Cuvier, etc. Pp. 576, 104 pls.
						Paris.
					HAAN, DE WILLEM--1842--Bijdragen tot de Kennis
						der Orthoptera.<Verhand. de Natur. Gesch. der Nederl. Overzeesch. Bezitt. etc.
						Orthop., pp., 45--248, pl. 10--23. Leiden.
					HALDEMAN, S. S.--1850--History of Phalangopsis, a Genus of
						Orthoptera with three new Species.<Proc. Amer. Assoc. Adv. Sci., II, 346. 
						
							1853--Description of some New Species of Insects, with Observations on Described
								Species.<Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., VI, 361--365.
						
					HANCOCK, DR. J. L.--1894--Unusual Flights of
						the Grouse Locust. (Tettigidea lateralis Say) in Northeastern Illinois.<Amer. Nat.,
						XXVIII, 483--487, pl. 13. 
							1896--On Illinois Grouse Locusts.<Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc., XXIII, 235--244,
								pls. VI-IX.
							1897--The Grouse Locusts of Minnesota.<Bull. 55, Minn. St. Exp. Stat.,
								105--111.
							1898--The Species of the New Genus Neotettix with a Key to the Genera of North
								American Tettigidæ.<Ent. News. IX, 137-141, pl. VIII.
							1898a--The Food Habits of the Tettigidæ.<Entom. Rec. & Journ. of Var., X,
								6--7.
							1899--Some Tettigian Studies.<Ent. News, X, 275--282.
							1900--Synopsis of Subfamilies and Genera of North American Tettigidæ.
								<Psyche, IX, 1--7.
							1902--The Tettigidæ of North America. Pp. vii+188, pls. I-XI. Chicago.
							1904--Oviposition and Carnivorous Habits of the Green Meadow Grasshopper
								(Orchelimum glaberrimum Burmeister).<Psycne, XI, 69--71, pl. V.
							1905--The Habits of the Striped Meadow Cricket, Oecanthus fasciatus
								Fitch.<Amer. Nat., XXXIX, 1--11.
							1906--Orthoptera--Family Acrididæ-Subfamily Tetriginæ.<48th Fasc. Gen.
								Insect. Pp. 1--77, pls. 1--4.
							1906a--On the Orthopteran Genus Ageneottix with a Description of a New Species
								from Illinois.<Ent. News, XVII, 253--256.
							1909--Further Studies of the Tetriginæ in the Oxford University
								Museum.<Trans. Ent. Soc. of London, 1908, pt. III, 387--426, pl. XXII.
							1911--Nature Sketches in Temperate America. Pp. 1--451. Illustrated.
								Chicago.
							1916--Pink Katydids and the Inheritance of Pink Coloration.<Ent. News, XXVII,
								70--82.
							1918--A New Genus and Two New Species of Tettigids with a Note on Nomotettix
								borealis Walker.<Ent. News, XXIX, 343--347, pl. XX.
						
					HARRIS, THADDEUS W.--1835--A Catalogue of the
						Animals and Plants in Masssachusetts.--Insects.<Hitch, Edw., Rep. Geol. Mass., 2nd.
						ed., pt. IV, 553--602. 
							1841--A Report on the Insects of New England Injurious to Vegetation. 1st ed.
								Pp. viii+459. Cambridge.
							1862--A Treatise on Some of the Insects of New England which are Injurious to
								Vegetation. 3rd ed. Pp. 12+640, pls. I--VIII.
						
					HART, CHAS. A.--1892--On the Species of
						Oecanthus Serv.<Ent. News, III, 33--34. 
							1906--Descriptive Synposis of Insect Collections for Distribution to Illinois
								High Schools, II, Orthoptera. Pp. 67--92.
							1906a--Notes of a Winter Trip in Texas, with an Annotated. List of the
								Orthoptera.<Ent. News, XVII, 154--160.
							1907--Zoological Studies in the Sand Regions of the Illinois and Mississippi
								River Valleys.<Bull. Ill. State Lab. Nat. Hist., VII, pt. III, 195--272, pls.
								VIII--XXIII.
						
					HEBARD, MORGAN--1909--Additional Notes on the
						Orthoptera of the Keweenaw Bay Region of Baraga County, Michigan.<Ent. News. XIX,
						155--158. 
							1913--A Revision of the Species of the Genus Nemobius found in North America
								North of the Isthmus of Panama.<Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., 394--492.
							1913a--A New North American Genus belonging to the Group Nemobiites.<Ent.
								News, XXIV, 451--452.
							1915--The Genus Hygronemobius with a Description of One New Species.<Ent.
								News, XXVI, 193--199, pl. VI.
							1915a--Records of Orthoptera from Newfoundland.<Ent. News, XXVI, 306.


							


							1915b-Dermaptera and Orthoptera found in the Vicinity of Miami, Florida, in
								March, 1915.<Ent. News, XXVI, 397--408, 457--469, pls. XVIII, XX.
							1915c--The American Species of the Genus Miogryllus.<Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc.,
								XXIII, 101--121.
							1916--Spring Orthoptera found on the Islands in the Vicinity of Charlotte
								Harbor, Florida.<Ent. News, XXVII, 14--21.
							1916a--The Genus Ceratinoptera.<Trans. Am. Ent. Soc., XLII, 125--134.
							1916b--A New Genus, Cariblatta, of the Group Blattellites.<Trans. Amer. Ent.
								Soc., XLII, 147--186, pls. XI--XIII.
							1916c--Studies in the Group Ischnopterites.<Trans. Am. Ent. Soc., XLII,
								337--383, pls. XVI--XIX.
							1916d--Nomenclatorial Facts.<Science, N. S., XLIV, 172--173.
							1917--Notes on the Earwigs (Dermaptera) of North America North of the Mexican
								Boundary.<Ent. News. XXVIII, 311--323.
							1917a-The Blattidæ of North America North of the Mexican Boundary. <Memoirs
								Amer. Entom. Soc., No. 2, 4to, 1--284, pls. I--X,
							1917b--Notes on Mexican Melanopli.<Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil.,
								251--275.
							1918--New Genera and Species of Melanopli found within the United
								States.<Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc., XLIV, 141--169, pl. VIII.
							1919--Remarks on the Species Assigned to Cavotettix Hancock, a Synonym of
								Neotettix Hancock.<Ent. News XXX, 78--82.
							1919a--New Genera and Species of Melanopli Found within the United
								States.<Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc., XIV, 257--298, pls. XXIX-XXXI.
						
					HERMAN, C. O.--1874--Die Decticiden der Brunner von
						Wattenwyl'schen Sammlung.<Verh. Zool.-bot. Gesellsch., XXIV, 193--210, pls.
						3--6.
					HOUGHTON, C. O.--1904--An Unusual Injury by the Snowy
						Tree-cricket and Notes on its Feeding Habits.<Ent. News, XV, 57--61. 
							1909--Observations on the Mating Habits of Oecanthus.<Ent. News, XX,
								274--279.
							1909a--Notes on Oecanthus.<Can. Ent., XLI, 113--115.
						
					HOWARD, L. O.--1892--A Genus of Mantis Egg Parasites.<Insect
						Life, IV, 242--245. 
							1895--Damage by the American Locust.<Insect Life, VII, 220--229.
							1902--The Insect Book. Pp. xxvii+429, pls. I--XLVIII. New York.
						
					HUBBARD, H. G.--1894--The Insect Guests of the Florida Land
						Tortoise.< Insect Life, VI, 302--315.
					ISELY, F. B.--1905--Notes on Kansas Orthoptera.<Trans. Kan.
						Acad. Sci., XIX, 238--249.
					JENSEN, J. P.-1909--Courting and Mating of Oecanthus
						fasciatus.<Can. Ent., XLI, 25--27. 
							1909a--Observations on the Oviposition of Oecanthus quadripunctatus. <Ent.
								News, XX, 25--28, pl. II.
						
					JOHANNSON, BOS.--1763--Centurio insectorum
						rariorum.<Amoen. Acad., etc., VI, 384--415. Holmiæ.
					JONES, D. W.--1917--The European Earwig and its Control.<Bull.
						No. 566, U. S. Bur. Ent., Pp. 1--12.
					KARNEY, H.--1907--Revisio Conocephalidanum.<Abh. K. K.
						Zool.--Bot. Ges. Wien. IV, Heft. 3, pp. 1--114. 
							1912--Orthoptera. Fam. Locustidæ-Subfam. Copihorinæ.<139th Fasc. Gen. Insect.
								Pp. 1--50, pls. 1--7.
							1913--Orthoptera--Fam. Locustidæ. Subfam. Conocephalinæ.<135th Fasc. Gen.
								Insect. Pp. 1--16, pls. 1--2.
						
					KIRBY, W.--1837--Fauna Boreali--Americana. The Insects. Pt. IV,
						4to. Pp. 39+325, pls. I--VIII. London.
					KIRBY, WM. & SPENCE, WM.--1828--An
						Introduction to Entomology, 5th ed. Pp. 1--607. London. 
							1859--An Introduction to Entomology or Elements of the Natural History of
								Insects, etc. Seventh ed. Pp. 1--607. London.
						
					KIRBY, W. F.--1904--A Synonymic Catalogue of Orthoptera--Vol.
						I--Euplexoptera, Cursoria et Gressoria. Pp. xx+ 501. London. 
						
							1906--Same, Vol. II. Ortnoptera Saltatoria, Pt. I. (Achetidæ et Phasgonuridæ).
								Pp. viii+562.
							1910--Same, Vol. III. Orthoptera Saltatoria, Pt. II. (Locustidæ vel Acrididæ).
								Pp. vii+674.
						
					KNAB, FREDERICK--1907--Color Varieties of
						Locustidoe.<Science, XXVI, 595--597.
					KOSTIR, W. J.--1914--Additions to the Known Orthopterous Fauna of
						Ohio.<Ohio Naturalist, XV, 370--374.
					LATREILLE, P. A.--1802--1805--Histoire Naturelle des CrustacEs et
						des Insectes.--Orthoptera, Vol. III, 267--284 (1802); Vol. XII, 81--164 (1804), pls.
						94--95. 
							1817--Insecta.<Cuvier G.,--Le Regne Animal, etc.--Orthoptera, Vol. III,
								365--384.
							1829--Same, second edition.
							1831--Same. American edition translated from the French with notes and additions
								by H. M'Murtrie. 4 vols. Orthoptera in Vol. IV, pp. 1--18.
						
					LEACH, W. E.--1815--Article Entomology.<Edinburgh
						Encyclopedia, IX, 57--172.
					LINNÆUS, CARL VON--1758--Systema naturæ. Edito decima reformata. Orthoptera, I.
						423--434. Holmimæ. 
							1763--Centuria insectorum rariorum.<Amen. Acad., VI, 384--415. Auth. Sep.,
								Pp. 6+32. Upsaliæ.
							1767--Systema naturæ. Editio duodecima reformata. Orthoptera--Vol. II,
								686--703.
						
					LUCAS, H.--1847--A New Forficesile.<Bull. Soc. Ent. France,
						(2) V. p. LXXXIV.
					LUGCER, OTTO--1897--The Orthoptera of
						Minnesota.<Bull. No. 55, Minn. State Exp. Stat., 1--296. St. Paul. 
							1898--Same.<Third Ann. Rep. Entomologist State Exper. Stat. Univ. Minn.,
								1897, pp. 1--296.
						
					LUTZ, F. E.--1906--The Tegminal Position in Gryllus.<Can.
						Ent., XXXVIII., 207--209. 
							1908--The Variation and Correlation of Certain Taxonomic Characters of
								Gryllus.<Publ. No. 101, Carnegie Institution, 1--63. Washington.
						
					MANEE, A. H.--1908--Some Observations at Southern Pines, North
						Carolina. <Ent. News, XIX, 459--462, pls. XX--XXI.
					MARLATT, C. L.--1896--The Principal Household Insects of the
						United States.<Bull. 4, (N. S.), U. S. Div. Ent., Pp. 1--130. Washington. 
							1902--Cockroaches. Circ. 51, (2nd Ser.) U. S. Div. Ent., 1--15.
						
					MARSCHALL, A. F.--1836--Decas Orthopterorum novorum.<Ann.
						Wien. Mus., I, 207--218, pl. XVIII.
					MCATEE, W. L.--1908--Notes on an Orthopteron
						Leaf-roller.<Ent. News, XIX, 488--491, pl. XXV.
					MCATEE, W. L. & CAUDELL, A. N.--1918--First List of the Dermaptera and Orthoptera of Plummer's
						Island, Md. and Vicinity.<Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., XIX, 1917, 100--122.
					MCNEILL, JEROME--1887--Dissosteira carolina.<Can. Ent., XIX, 58--59. 
							1889--Notes upon Gryllus and Oecanthus.<Entom. Americana, V. 101--104.
							1891--A List of the Orthoptera of Illinois.<Psyche, VI, 3--9, 21--27, 62--66,
								73--78.
							1897--Revision of the Truxalin of North America.<Proc. Daven. Acad. Nat.
								Sci., VI, 179--274, pls. I--VI. Davenport, Iowa.
							1897a--Some Corrections in Generic Names in Orthoptera.<Psyche, VIII,
								71.
							1899--Notes on Arkansas Truxalinæ.<Can. Ent., XXXI, 53--55.
							1899a--Arkansas Melanopli.<Psyche, VIII, 332--334, 343--346, 366--371.
							1900--The Orthopteron Genus Trimerotropis.<Psyche, IX, 27--36.
							1900a--Orchelimum Serville.<Can. Ent., XXXII, 77--83.
							1901--Review of the Orthopteron Genus Trimerotropis.<Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus.,
								Vol. 23, 393--449, pl. XXI.
						


					


					MEAD, CHAS. S.--1904--A List of the Orthoptera of Ohio.<Ohio Naturalist, IV,
						109--112.
					MORSE, A. P.--1893--A New Species of Stenobothrus from
						Connecticut with Remarks on Other New England Species.<Psyche, VI, 477--479. 
							1893a--A Melanistic Locust.<Fsyche, VI, 401.
							1894--A Preliminary List of the Acrididæ of New England.<Psyche, VII,
								102--108.
							1894a--Notes on the Acrididæ of New England.--I. Tettiginae.<Psyche, VII,
								147--154, 163--167, pl. 6.
							1894b--Spharagemon; a Study of the New England Species.<Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat.
								Hist., XXVI, 220--240.
							1895--New North American Tettiginæ,--I.<Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., Vol. III,
								14--16;--II, 107--110; Vol. IV, pl. II.
							1895a--A Revision of the Species of the Genus Spharagemon.<Psyche, VII,
								287--299.
							1896--Notes on the Acrididæ of New England,--II. Tryxalinm.< Psyche, VII,
								323--327, 342--344, 382--384, 402--403, 407--411, 413--422, 443--445, pl. 7.
							1896a--Some Notes on Locust Stridulation.<Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., IV,
								16--20.
							1897--Notes on New England Acrididæ,--III. Oedipodinae.<Psyche, VIII, 6--8,
								35--37, 50--51, 64--66, 80--82, 87--89, 91--114, pl. 2.
							1898--Notes on New England Acrididæ,--IV, Acridiinæ.<Psyche, VIII, 247--248,
								255--260, 269--273, 279--282, 292--296, pl. 7.
							1899--New North American Tettiginæ,--III.Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., VII,
								198--201.
							1899a--The Distribution of the New England Locusts.<Psyche, VIII,
								315--323.
							1900--Tettiginæ.<Biol. Cent. Amer.,--Orth., II, 3--19.
							1901--A New Xiphidium from Florida.<Can. Ent., XXXIII, 236.
							1901a--Variation in Tridactylus.<Psyche, IX, 197--199.
							1901b--New North American Orthoptera.<Can. Ent., XXXIII, 129--131.
							1904--Researches on North America Acrididæ.<Publ. No. 18, Carnegie Inst. of
								Washington, Pp. 1--55, pls. 1--8.
							1904a--New Acrididæ from the Southeastern States.<Psyche, XI, 7--13.
							1905--Some Bahama Orthoptera.<Psyche, XII, 19--24.
							1906--New Acrididæ from the Southern States.<Psyche, XIII, 119--122.
							1906a--The Ecological Relations of the Orthoptera in the Porcupine Mountains,
								Michigan.<Rep. State Bd. Geol. Surv. of Mich., 1905, 68--72.
							1907--Further Researches on North American Acrididæ.<Publ. No. 68, Carnegie
								Inst. of Washington. Pp. 1--54, pls. 1--9.
							1907a--Paratylotropidia beutenmülleri sp. nov.<Psyche, XIV, p. 14.
							1908--Tettigidean Notes, and a New Species.<Psyche, XV, 25.
							1909--Report on the Isle Royale Orthoptera of the 1905 Expedition.< An Ecol.
								Survey of Isle Royale, Lake Superior,--Orthoptera, 299--303. Lansing.
							1916--A New England Orthopteran Adventive.<Psyche, XXIII, 178-180.
							1919--New Records of Orthoptera in New England.<Psyche, XXVI, 16--18.
							1919a--A List of the Orthoptera of New England.<Psyche, XXVI, 21-39.
						
					MORSE, A. P. & HEBARD, MORGAN--1915--Fixation of Single Type (Lectotypic) Specimens of Species of
						American Orthoptera (Described by Morse).<Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil.,
						96--106.
					MOTSCHULSKY, V.--1863--Essai D'un Catalogue des Insectes de f'ile
						Ceylon. <Bull. Soc. Nat. Mose., XXXVI, 1--153.
					MURTFELDT, MARY E.--1889--The Carnivorous
						Habits of Tree Crickets.< Insect Life, II, 130--132.
					NEWMAN, EDW.--1838--Entomological
						Notes.<Ent. Mag., V, 168--181.
					OLIVIER, G. A.--1789--1792--Encyclopedie methodique dictionaire
						des insectes (Orthoptera treated in Vol. IV, 1789; VI, 1791; VII, 1792.) Paris.


					


					PACKARD, ALPHEUS
						S.--1869--Orthoptera.<Guide to the Study of Insects and a Treatise on Those Injurious
						and Beneficial to Crops. Pp. 556--577. 
							1873--On the Cave Fauna of Indiana.<Ann. Rep. Peabody Acad. Sci., V,
								93--97.
							1881--The Fauna of the Nickajack Cave.<Amer. Nat., XV, 877--882, pl.
								VII.
							1888--The Cave Fauna of North America with Remarks on the Anatomy of the Brain
								and Origin of the Blind Species.<Memoirs Nat. Acad. Sci., IV. Pp. 1--156, pls.
								I--XXVI. Washington.
							1889--Notes on Epipharynx and Epipharyngeal Organs of Taste in Mandibulate
								Insects.<Psyche, V, 1889, 193--199.
							1890--On Insects Injurious to Forest and Shade Trees.<Rep. U. S. Ent. Comm.,
								V. Pp. 8+958, pl. I. Washington.
						
					PALLAS, PETER S.--1772--Spicelegia zoologica
						quibus novæ imprimis, etc. --Orthoptera, Vol. I, fasc. IX, 87 pp., 5 pls.
					PARROTT, F. J. & FULTON, B. B.--1914--Tree
						Crickets Injurions to Orchard and Garden Fruits.<Bull. No. 388, N. Y. Agr. Exp. Sta.,
						417--461, pls I--X. Geneva, N. Y.
					PERTY, M.--1832--Insecta Brasiliensia.--Orthoptera.<Delectus
						Animalium Articulatorum Brasil, 116--124, pls. XXIII--XXIV.
					PETTIT, R. H. & MCDANIEL, EUGENIA--1918--Key to Orthoptera of Michigan, With
						Annotations.<Spec. Bull. No. 83, Mich. Agr. Coll. Exp. Stat., 1--48.
					PIERS, HARRY--1896--Preliminary Notes on the
						Orthoptera of Nova Scotia. <Trans. Nov. Scot. Inst. Sci., IX, 208--218.
						Halifax.
					1918--The Orthoptera of Nova Scotia with Descriptions of the Species and Notes on
						their Occurrence and Habits.<Trans. Nov. Scot. Inst. Sci., XIV, Pt. 3, 201--356, pls.
						1--4.
					PROVANCHER, L.--1876--Petite faune Entomologique du Canada.--Les
						Orthopteres.<Nat. Can., VIII, 13--26, 52--62, 72--81, 106--116, 134--143. 
							1877--Faune Entomologique du Canada et particulierement de la Province de
								Quebec.--Les Orthopteres et les Neuropteres. Pp. 6+157. Quebec.
							1883--Same, Vol. II. Fascicle 1. Les Orthopteres. Pp. 1--53.
						
					REDTENBACHER, JOSEF--1891--Mongraphie der
						Conocephaliden.<Verhand. der K. K. Zool.--Bot. Gesellschaft in Wien, 315--562, pls.
						3--4. Auth. Sep., 1--248. Wien. 
							1892--On the Orthoptera of the Island of St. Vincent, West Indies.< Proc.
								Zool. Soc. Lond., XVII, 196--221, pls. XV--XVII.
						
					REHN, J. A. G.--1900--Notes on the Distribution of Podisma
						variegata Scudder.<Ent. News, XI, 630--631. 
							1900a--Melanoplus differentialis in New Jersey & Pennsylvania.<Can. Ent.,
								XXXII, 28.
							1901--Random Notes on North American Orthoptera.<Trans-Amer. Ent. Soc.,
								XXVII, 331--337.
							1901a--The Linnean Genus Gryllus.<Can. Ent., XXXIII, 118--121.
							1902--A New Aptenopedes from Florida.<Ent. News, XIII, 14.
							1902a--Schistocerca alutacea and rubiginosa.<Ent. News, XIII, 89.
							1902b--Nomenclatural Notes on Two Genera of Orthoptera.<Ent. News, XIII,
								101--102.
							1902c--Records of New Jersey and Pennsylvania Orthoptera.<Ent. News, XIII,
								309--316.
							1902d--A Contribution to the Knowledge of the Orthoptera of Mexico and Central
								America.<Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc., XXIX, 1--34.
							1903--Notes on some Interesting Species of Forficulidæ and Blattidæ from the
								Eastern United States.<Ent. News, XIV, 125--126.
							1903a--Studies in American Blattidæ.<Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc., XXIX,
								259--290.
							1903b--Notes and Remarks on North American Blattidæ, Mantidæ and
								Phasmidæ.<Ent. News, XIV, 325--329.
							1903c.--A Revision of the Orthopterous Genus Homœogamia.<Proc. Acad. Nat.
								Sci. Phil., 177--192.


							


							1903d--A New Roach of the Genus Ischnoptera from Florida.<Ent. News, XIV,
								234.
							1903e--Notes on the Orthoptera of New Mexico and Western Texas.< Proc. Acad.
								Nat. Sci. Phil., 1902, 717--727.
							1903f--Description of a new Genus of Gryllidæ, with a note on the Genus
								Aphonogryllus.<Ent. News, XIV, 258--259.
							1903g--Studies in Old World Mantidæ<Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil.,
								701--718.
							1904--Notes on Orthoptera from Northern and Central Mexico.<Proc. Acad. Nat.
								Sci. Phil., 513--549.
							1904a--Notes on Orthoptera from Arizona, New Mexico and Colorado.< Proc.
								Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., 562--575.
							1904b--A New Melanoplus from New Jersey.<Ent. News, XV, 85--87.
							1904c--A New Roach of the Genus Chorisoneura from South Carolina. <Ent. News,
								XV, 164.
							1904d--Notes on the Orthoptera of the Keweenaw Bay Region of Baraga County,
								Michigan.<Ent. News, XV, 229--236, 263--270.
							1904e--Two New Species of North American Stenopelmatinæ.<Ent. News, XV,
								280--282.
							1904f--Notes and Records of New Jersey Orthoptera.<Ent. News, XV,
								325--332.
							1904g--A New Species of Roach of the Genus Kakerlac from Southern
								Texas.<Psyche, XI, 72--73.
							1905--Notes and Descriptions of Orthoptera from the Western United States in the
								Entomological Collection of the University of Kansas. <Trans. Kan. Acad. Sci.,
								XIX, 221--231.
							1906--A New Species of Eotettix from Georgia.<Ent. News, XVII,
								234--237.
							1906a--Some Utah Orthoptera.<Ent. News, XVII, 284--288.
							1906b--Conocephalus lyristes.<Ent. News, XVII, 366--367.
							1906c--Orthoptera of the Bahamas.<Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., XXII,
								107--118.
							1907--Records of Orthoptera from the Vicinity of Brownsville, Texas.< Ent.
								News, XVIII, 209--212.
							1907a--Notes on Orthoptera from Southern Arizona with Descriptions of New
								Species.<Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., 24--81.
							1909--A Catalogue of the Orthoptera of Cuba and the Isle of Pines.< Sec. Rep.
								Cent. Exper. Stat., Republic of Cuba, 175--226.
							1909a--New Jersey Records of Hesperotettix brevipennis (Thomas).< Ent. News,
								XX, 104--105.
							1917--Some Critical Notes on the Giant Katydids Forming the Group Steirodontia
								(Phaneropterinæ).<Ent. News, XXVIII, 107--122, pl. X.
							1911--Orthoptera--Family Mantidæ, Subfamily Vatinæ.<ll19th Fasc. Gen. Insect.
								Pp. 1--28, pl. I.
							1919--A Study of the Orthopterous Genus Mermiria Stål.<Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci.
								Phil., 55--120, pls. V--VII.
						
					REHN, J. A. G. & HEBARD, MORGAN--1904--The Orthoptera of Thomas County, Georgia and Leon County,
						Florida.<Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., 774--802. 
							1905--A Contribution to the Knowledge of the Orthoptera of Southern and Central
								Florida.<Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., 29--55, pl. I.
							1906--A Contribution to the Knowledge of the Orthoptera of Montana, Yellowstone
								Park, Utah and Colorado.<Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., 358--418.
							1907--Orthoptera from Northern Florida.<Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil.,
								279--319.
							1908--An Orthopterological Reconnaisance of the Southwestern United States, Pt.
								I.--Arizona.<Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., 365--402.
							1909--Same. Pt. II.--New Mexico and Western Texas.<Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci.
								Phil., 111--175.
							1910--A Revision of the North American Species of the Genus
								Ischnoptera.<Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., 407--453.
							1910a--Preliminary Studies of North Carolina Orthoptera.<Proc. Acad. Nat.
								Sci. Phil., 615--650.


							


							1911--Records of Georgia and Florida Orthoptera with descriptions of one New
								Species and one New Subspecies.<Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., 585--598.
							1912--On the Orthoptera found on the Florida Keys and in Extreme Southern
								Florida.-I.<Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., 235--276.
							1912a--A Revision of the Genera and Species of the Group Mogoplistii found in
								North America North of the Isthmus of Panama.<Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil.,
								184--234.
							1912b-Fixation of Single Type (Lectotypic) specimens of Species of American
								Orthoptera (Described by Bruner, Scudder in part and Rehn & Hebard).<Proc.
								Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., 60--128.
							1912c--On the Genus Anaxipha.<Ent. News, XXIII, 411--412.
							1914--A Revision of the Orthopterous Group Insaræ.<Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc.,
								XL, 37--184.
							1914a--A Synopsis of the Species of the Genus Scudderia.<Trans. Amer. Ent.
								Soc., XL, 271--314, pls. IX--XI.
							1914b--A Synopsis of the Species of the Genus Amblycorypha found in America
								North of Mexico.<Trans. Amer. Eht. Soc., XL, 315--344, pls. XI--XII.
							1914c--On the Orthoptera found on the Florida Keys and in Extreme Southern
								Florida,--II,<Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., 373--412.
							1914d--Records of Dermaptera and Orthoptera from West-central and Southwestern
								Florida, Collected by W. T. Davis.<Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., XXII, 96--116.
							1914e--United States and Mexico Records of Species of the Genus Doru. <Journ.
								N. Y. Ent. Soc., XXII, 89--96.
							1914f0-On the Genus Phœtalia of Authors.<Ent. News, XXV, 216--217.
							1914g--On the Blatta ægyptiaca of Drury.<Ent. News, XXV, 121--123.
							1915--A Synopsis of the Species of the Genus Neoconocephalus found in North
								America North of Mexico.<Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc., XL, 365--413, pls.
								XV--XVI.
							1915a--A Synopsis of the Species of the Genus Orchelimum.<Trans. Amer. Ent.
								Soc., XLI, 11--83, pls. I--IV.
							1915b--A Synopsis of the Species of the Genus Conocephalus found in North
								America North of Mexico.<Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc., XLI, 155--224, pls.
								XV--XX.
							1915c--The Genus Gryllus as found in America.<Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil.,
								293--322, pl. IV.
							1916--Studies in the Dermaptera and Orthoptera of the Coastal Plain and Piedmont
								Region of the Southeastern United States.<Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., 87--314,
								pls. XII--XIV.
							1916a--A Revision of the Species of the Genus Atlanticus.<Trans Amer. Ent.
								Soc., XLII, 33--100, pls. VI--VIII.
							1917--Studies in West Indian Earwigs (Dermaptera).<Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat.
								Hist., XXXVII, 635--651, pls. LXII--LXIII.
						
					RILEY, CHAS. V.--1869--First Annual Report on
						the Noxious, Beneficial and other Insects of the State of Missouri. Pp. 1--181.
						Jefferson City, Mo. 
							1873--Fifth Annual Report on the Insects of Missouri. Pp. 1--160.
							1874--Katydids.<Sixth Ann. Rep. on the Insects of Missouri, 150--169.
							1875--Seventh Annual Report on the Insects of Missouri. Pp. viii+196.
							1876--Eighth Annual Report on the Insects of Missouri. Pp. 1--185.
							1877--Ninth Annual Report on the Insects of Missouri. Pp. vi+129.
							1878--Habits and Natural History of Locusts.<First Rep. U. S. Entom. Comm.,
								212--257.
							1879--The Thick-thighed Walking-stick.<Rep. U. S. Dept. Agr., 1878, 241--245,
								pl. III.
							1881--General Index and Supplement to the Nine Reports on the Insects of
								Missouri.<Bull. U. S. Entom. Comm., VI, 1--178. Washington.
							1884--Orthoptera.<The Standard Natural History, II., 167--203. Boston.
							1886--Report of the Entomologist.<Ann. Rep. U. S. Dept. Agr., 1885, 10+137,
								pls. I--IX. Washington.


							


							1887--Our Shade Trees and their Insect Defoliators.<Bull. U. S. Div. Ent. (O.
								S.), X, 1+69. Washington.
							1888--Injury done by Roaches to the Files in the Treasury at Washington.
								<Insect Life, I, 67--70, 190--191.
							1890--Some Insect Pests of the Household--IV.--Cockroaches.<Insect Life, II,
								266--269.
							1891--Destructive Locusts.<Bull. 25, U. S. Div. Ent. (O. S.), 1--62, pls.
								1--12, map.
							1891a--A Viviparous Cockroach.<Insect Life, III, 443--444.
							1893--The Genus Dendrotettix.<Insect Life, V, 254--256.
						
					RILEY, C. V., THOMAS, C. & PACKARD, A. S.--1878--First Annual Report of the United States Entomological
						Commission for the year 1877, relating to the Rocky Mountain Locust. Pp. 16+477+295, 3
						maps, 5 plates. Washington. 
							1880--Second Report of the United States Entomological Commission for the years
								1878 and 1879, relating to the Rocky Mountain Locust and the Western Cricket. Pp.
								18+322+80, 17 plates.
							1883--Third Report of the United States Entomological Commission relating to the
								Rocky Mountain Locust, the Western Cricket, the Army Worm, Canker Worms and the
								Hessian Fly. Pp. 14+347--+12, 4 maps, 64 plates.
						
					SAUSSURE, HENRI DE--1859--Orthoptera Nova
						Americana (Diagnoses Præliminares)-I.< Rev. et. Mag. Zool. (2) XI, 59--63, 201--212,
						315--317, 390--394. Auth. Sep., pp. 1--16. 
							1861--Same--II.<Rev. et. Mag. de Zool. (2) XIII, 126--130, 156--164,
								313--324, 397--402. Auth. Sep., pp. 1--33.
							1862--Etudes sur Quelques Orthopteres du Musee de Geneve.<Ann. de la Soc.
								Entom. de France, (4), I, 469--494, pls. 11--12.
							1862a--Orthoptera Nova Americana--(Diagnoses Praeliminares.)--III. <Rev. et
								Mag. de Zool., (2), XIV, 163--171, 227--234. Auth. Sep., 1--17.
							1863--Melanges Orthopterologiques--Fascicule I.--Blattides.<Mem. de la Soc.
								de Phys. et d'Hist. Nat. de Geneve, XVII, 129--170. Auth. Sep. 1--44, pl. I.
							1864--Orthopteres de 1'Amerique Moyenne.<Mem. d'Hist. Nat. Mex., IV, 1--279,
								pls. 1--2. Geneva and Paris.
							1869--Essai d'un Systeme des Mantides.<Mittheil. der Schwiez Entom. Gesells.,
								III, 49--73.
							1869a--Melanges Orthopterologiques-Fascicule II.-Blattides et Hasmides.<Mem.
								Soc. Phys. et. Hist. Nat. de Geneve, XX, 4to., 227--326. Auth. Sep., 45--148, pls.
								2--3.
							1870--Etudes sur les Insectes Orthopteres--Famille des Blattides.< Miss.
								Scient. au Mexique et dans 1'Amerique Centrale, Pt. VI, 4to., 1--123. pls. 1--2.
								Paris.
							1870a--Melanges Orthopterologiques--Fascicule III.--Mantides.<Mem. Soc. Phys.
								et Hist. Nat. de Geneve, XXI, 1--214. Auth. Sep., 149--362, pls. 4--6.
							1870b--Additions au Systeme des Mantides.<Mitth. Schwiez Ent. Ges., III,
								221--244.
							1871--Synopsis des Mantides Americains.<Mem. l'Hist. Nat. du Mexique des
								Antilles et des Etats Unis, 4th Memoir, 1--181, pls. 1--2. Geneve.
							1871a--Melanges Orthopterologiques--Supplement au Fascicule
								III--Mantides.<Mem. Soc. Phys. et Hist. Nat. de Geneve, XXI, 4to. 239--336. Auth.
								Sep., 363--460, pl. 7.
							1872--Melanges Orthopterologiques--Fascicule IV.--Mantides et
								Blattides.<Ibid., XXIII, 1--164. Auth. Sep., 1--164, pls. 8--10.
							1874--Etudes sur les Insectes Orthopteres--Famille des Gryllides.< Miss.
								Scient. au Mexique et dans 1'Amerique Centrale, Pt. VI, 296--516, pls. 7--8.
								Paris.
							1877--Melanges Orthopterologiques, Fasicule V.--Gryllides.<Mem. Soc. Phys. et
								Hist. Nat. de Geneve, XXV, Pt. I, 1--352. Auth. Sep., 169--504, pls. 11--15.
								Geneve.


							


							1878--Melanges Orthopterologiques--Fascicule VI.--Gryllides, Pt. II.< Ibid,
								XXV, Pt. 2, 369--702. Auth. Sep., 505--836, pls. 16--19.
							1884--Prodromus Oedipodiorum Insectorum ex ordine Orthopterorum.< Mem. Soc.
								Phys. et Nat. de Geneve, XXVIII, 1--254, pl. I. Geneve.
							1888--Additamenta ad Prodromus Oedipodiorum.<Ibid., XXX, 1--180, pl.
								2.
							1897--Orthoptera Genuina.--Gryllidæ.<Biol. Cent. Amer., Zool.--Orthoptera. I,
								198--294, pls. XI--XIII.
							1897a--Revision du Genre Tridactylus.<Revue Suisse de Zool., IV,
								407--420.
						
					SAUSSURE, HENRI & ZEHNTNER, LEO--1893--1894--Orthoptera genuina.--Blattidæ,
						Mantidæ.<Biol. Cent. Amer., Orthoptera, I., 13--197, pls. I--X, 4to. London. 
							1894a--Notice Morphologique sur les Gryllotalpiens.<Revue Suisse de Zool.,
								II, 403--430, pls. XVI--XVII.
						
					SAUSSURE, H. &. PICTET, ALPHONSE--1897--1899--Orthoptera genuina.--Locustidæ.Biol. Cent.
						Amer.,-Orthoptera, 285--458, pls. 14--22. London.
					SAY, THOMAS--1824--American Entomology, or
						descriptions of the Insects of North America--I. Pp. 8+112, pls. 1--18. 
							1824a--Appendix to the Narrative of an Expedition to the Source of St. Peter's
								River under the Command of Stephen H. Long.<Western Quarterly Reporter, Vol. 2,
								268--378.
							1825--Description of New Hemipterous Insects collected in the Expedition to the
								Rocky Mountains, under Command of Major Long.< Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., IV,
								307--345.
							1828--American Entomology.--III. Pp. 1--138, pls. 37--54.
							1859--The Complete Writings of Thomas Say on the Entomology of North America.
								Edited by John L. Leconte. I, Pp. 24+412, pls. 1--54; II, Pp. 4+814. New
								York.
						
					SCHIMMER, FRITZ VON--1909--Beitrag zur einer
						Monographie der Grylloden gattung Myrmecophila Latr.<Zeitschr. Wissensch. Zool.,
						XCIII, 409--534, pls. XXII--XXIV.
					SCUDDER, SAMUEL H.--1861--On the Genus
						Raphidophora Serville with descriptions of Four Species from the Caves of Kentucky, and
						from the Pacific Coast.<Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., VIII, 6--14. 
							1862--Materials for a Monograph of the North American Orthoptera, Including a
								Catalogue of the Known New England Species.< Journ. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., VII,
								409--480.
							1862a--List of Orthoptera Collected on a Trip from Assiniboia to
								Cumberland.<Can. Nat.-Geol., VII, 283--288. Montreal.
							1863--Remarks on some Characteristics of the Insect Fauna of the White
								Mountains, New Hampshire.<Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., VII, 612--631, pls.
								14--15.
							1868--The Songs of the Grasshoppers.<Amer. Nat., II, 113--120.
							1868a--Notes on the Stridulation of some New England Orthoptera.< Proc. Bost.
								Soc. Nat. Hist., XI, 306--313.
							1868b--A Century of Orthoptera. Decade I,--Gryllides.<<Proc. Bost. Soc.
								Nat. Hist., XII, 139--143.
							1868c--Considerations drawn from the Study of Mole Crickets.<Proc. Bost. Soc.
								Nat. Hist., XI, 384--387.
							1869--Descriptions of new species of Orthoptera in the Collection of the
								American Entomological Society.<Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc., II, 305--307.
							1869a--Revision of the Large, Stylated Fossorial Crickets.<Memoirs Peabody
								Acad. Sci., I. Pp. 1--28, pl. I. Salem, Mass.
							1869b--The Arrangement of the Families of Orthoptera.<Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat.
								Hist., XII, 226--235.
							1869c--Notes on Orthoptera Collected by Prof. Jas. Orton on either side of the
								Andes of Equatorial South America.<Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., XII,
								330--345.
							1872--Notes on the Orthoptera Collected by Dr. F. V. Hayden in
								Nebraska.<Final Report U. S. Geol. Survey. Nebraska and Adjacent Terr. 247--261.
								Washington.


							


							1874--The Distribution of Insects in New Hampshire.<Hitchcock's Rep. on Geol.
								of New Hamp., I, 331--380, pls. A--C. Concord.
							1875--A Century of Orthoptera. Decade II.--Locustariæ.<Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat.
								Hist., XVII, 454--462.
							1875a--Spharagemon.--A Genus of Oedipodinæ, with a Revision of the
								Species.<Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., XVII, 467--471.
							1875b--A Century of Orthoptera. Decade III.--Acrydii (Pezotettix,
								Caloptenus).<Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., XVII, 472--478.
							1875c--Revision of Two American Genera of Oedipodidæ.<Proc. Bost Soc. Nat.
								Hist., XVII, 478--485.
							1875d--Entomological Notes, IV. Pp. 1--91. Boston.
							1875e--The Note of the Katydid.<Psyche, I, 93--94.
							1875f--Notice of the Butterflies and Orthoptera Collected by Mr. Geo. F. Dawson,
								as Naturalist of the B. N. A. Boundary Commission. <Rep. Geol. Resources, 49th
								Par.; App. D., 341--345. Montreal.
							1875g--A. Century of Orthoptera, Decade IV.--Acrydii.<Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat.
								Hist., XVII, 510--517.
							1876--Report on the Orthoptera Collected by the U. S. Geographical Survey West
								of the 100th Meridian, under the Direction of Lieut. Geo. M. Wheeler during the
								Season of 1875.<Ann. Rep. Chief of Engineers for 1876. Appendix JJ, 498--515.
								Washington.
							1876a--List of the Orthoptera Collected by Dr. A. S. Packard in Colorado and the
								Neighboring Territories During the Summer of 1875.<Bull. U. S. Geol. & Geog.
								Surv. Terr., II, No. 3, 261--267.
							1876b--Brief Synopsis of North American Earwigs, with an Appendix on the Fossil
								Species.<Bull. U. S. Geol. & Geog. Surv. Terr., II, No. 3, 249--260.
							1876c--Synoptical Table for Determining North American Insects. Orthoptera.-U.
								S. Forficulariæ.<Psyche, I, 177--178.
							1876d--Critical and Historical Notes on Forficulariæ Including Descriptions of
								new Generic Forms and an Alphabetical Synomic List of the Described
								Species.<Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., XVIII, 287--332.
							1876e--The Chirp of the Mole Cricket.<Amer. Nat., X, 97--98.
							1876f--A Century of Orthoptera. Decade VI.-Forficulariæ (N. American).<Proc.
								Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., XVIII, 257--264.
							1876g--Odoriferous Glands in Phasmidæ.<Psyche, I, 105--106.
							1877--New Forms of Saltatorial Orthoptera from the Southern United
								States.<Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., XIX, 35--41.
							1877a--The Florida Orthoptera Collected by J. H. Comstock.<Proc. Bost. Soc.
								Nat. Hist., XIX, 80--94.
							1877b--A Century of Orthoptera. Decade VII.--Acrydii.<Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat.
								Hist., XIX, 27--35.
							1878--Remarks on Calliptenus and Melanoplus with a Notice of the Species found
								in New England.<Proc. Bost. Soc., Nat. Hist., XIX, 281--286.
							1878a--Brief Notice of the American Species of Melanoplus found West of the
								117th Meridian.<Froc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., XIX, 286--290.
							1879--A Century of Orthoptera. Decade VIII.--Acridii (Melanoplus).< Proc.
								Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., XX, 63--75.
							1879a--A Century of Orthoptera. Decade X.--Locustariæ (Conocephalus).<Proc.
								Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., 87--95.
							1880--A Few Notes on North American Acridii.<Can. Ent., XII, 75--76.
							1880a--A List of Orthoptera Collected by Dr. A. S. Packard in the Western United
								States in the Summer of 1877.<Rep. U. S. Ent. Comm., II, Appendix 2, 23--28, pl.
								17. Washington.
							1890--Some Genera of Oedipodidæ rescued from the Tryxalidæ.<Psyche, V,
								431--442.
							1892--The Orthopteron Genus Hippiscus.<Psyche, VI, 265--274, 285-288,
								301--304, 317--320, 333--336, 347--350, 359--363.
							1893--The Songs of our Grasshoppers and Crickets.<Twenty-third Ann. Rep. Ent.
								Soc. of Ontario, 1892, 62--78. Toronto.
							1894--The North American Ceuthophili.<Proc. Amer. Acad. Arts & Sci., XXX,
								17--113.


							


							1894a--A Preliminary Review of the North American Decticida.<Can. Ent., XXVI,
								177--184.
							1894b--Walking Sticks.<Harper's Mag., LXXXVIII, 454--461.
							1894c--Biological Notes on American Gryllidæ.<Psyche, VII, 3--5.
							1895--Summary of the United States Phasmidæ.<Can. Ent., XXVII, 29--30.
							1896--Index to the Mantidæ of North America North of Mexico.<Can. Ent.,
								XXVIII, 207--215.
							1896a--North American Species of Nemobius.<Journ. New York Ent. Soc., IV,
								99--107.
							1896b--The Species of Nemobius found in North America.<Psyche, VII,
								431--434.
							1896c--Some American Crickets.<Harper's Mag., XCIII, 691--696.
							1896d--The New England Melanopli.<Psyche, VII, 367--370.
							1897--Revision of the Orthopteran Group Melanopli (Acrididæ) with Special
								reference to North American Forms.<Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Vol. 20, 1--421, pls.
								I--XXVI.
							1897a--The Genera of North American Melanopli.<Proc. Amer. Acad. Arts &
								Sci., XXXII, 193--206.
							1897b--The Species of the Genus Melanoplus.<Proc. Amer. Phil. Soc., XXXVI,
								5--35.
							1897c--Guide to the Genera and Classification of the North American Orthoptera
								found North of Mexico. Pp. 1--87. Cambridge, Mass.
							1897d--Biological and Other Notes on American Acrididæ.<Psyche. VIII,
								99--102.
							1897e--Diapheromera femorata.<Psyche, VIII, 30--31.
							1897f--A Genus of Gryllidæ hitherto unrecorded from the United States.
								<Psyche, VIII, 55.
							1898--The Orthopteran Group Scudderia.<Proc. Amer. Acad. Arts & Sci.,
								XXXIII, 271--290.
							1898a--A Preliminary Classification of the Tryxalinæ of the United States and
								Canada.<Psyche, VIII, 231--239.
							1898b--The Described Species of Xiphidium in the United States and
								Canada.<Can. Ent., XXX, 183--184.
							1898c--The Alpine Orthoptera of North America.<Appalachia, VIII, 299--319,
								pls. XLI-XLIV. Auth. Sep., 1--21.
							1899--The North American Species of Orphulella.<Can. Ent., XXXI,
								177--188.
							1899a--Short Studies in North American Tryxalinæ.<Proc. Amer. Acad. Arts
								& Sci., XXXV, 39--57.
							1899b--Supplement to the Revision of the Melanopli.<Proc Davenp. Acad. Nat.
								Sci., VII, 157--205, pls. VII--IX. Davenport, Iowa.
							1899c--The Orthopteran Genus Schistocerca.<Proc. Amer. Acad. Arts & Sci,
								XXXIV, 441--476.
							1899d--The Species of Myrmecophila in the United States.<Psyche, VIII,
								423--428.
							1899e--Pseudopomala and its Allies.<Psyche. VIII, 436--438.
							1900--Catalogue of the Described Orthoptera of the United States and
								Canada.<Proc. Davenp. Acad. Nat. Sci., VIII, 1--101, pls. I--III.,
							1900a--A List of the Orthoptera of New England.<Psyche, IX, 99--106.
							1900b--The Distribution of Leptysma marginicollis Serv.<Psyche, IX,
								116.
							1900c--The Species of Circotettix, a North American Genus of
								Oedipodinæ.<Psyche, IX, 135--141.
							1901--The Species of Diapheromera (Phasmidæ) found in the United States and
								Canada.<Psyche, IX, 187--189.
							1901a--The Species of Gryllus on the Pacific Coast.<Psyche, IX,
								267--270.
							1901b--Miogryllus and its Species in the United States.<Psyche, IX,
								256--258.
							1901c--Alphabetical Index to North American Orthoptera described in the
								Eighteenth and Nineteenth Centuries.<Occasional Papers, Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist.,
								VI. Pp. 1--436.
							1901d--Four New Species of Hippiscus.<Can. Ent., XXXIII, 88--92.



							


							1902--On the United States Orthoptera which have been referred to the Genus
								Tridactylus.<Psyche, IX, 308--310.
							1902a--The Species of Gryllus found in the United States East of the Sierra
								Nevadas.<Psyche, IX, 291--296.
						
					SCUDDER, S. H. & COCKERELL, T. D.
						A.--1902--A First List of the Orthoptera of New Mexico.<Proc. Davenp. Acad. Nat.
						Sci., IX, 1--62, pls. I--V.
					SERVILLE, J. G.--1831--Revue Methodique des Orthopteres.<Ann.
						des Sciences naturelles, XXII, 28--65, 134--167, 262--292. Paris. 
							1839--Histoire Naturelle des Insectes.--Orthopteres. Pp. xviii+777, pls. 1--14.
								Paris.
						
					SEVERIN, H. P. & H. C.--1911--The Life History of the
						Walkingstick, Diapheromera femorata Say.<Journ. Econ. Ent., IV, 307--320. 
							1911a--The Mechanism in the Hatching of the Walking-stick, Diapheromera femorata
								Say.<Ann. Ent. Soc., Amer., IV, 187--190, pl. XIV.
							1913--The Effect of Temperature on the Molting of the Walking-stick,
								Diapheromera femorata Say.<Ent. News, XXIV, 14--19.
						
					SHELFORD, R.--1906--Studies of the Blattidæ.<Trans. Ent. Soc.
						London, Pt. II, 231--278, pls. XIV--XVI. 
							1907--Studies of the Blattidæ, (Continued).<Ibid., Pt. IV, 487--519, pl.
								XXX.
							1907a--Orthoptera; Fam. Blattidæ; Subfamily Ectobinæ.<55th Fasc. Gen. Insect.
								Pp. 1--15, pl. I.
							1908--Orthoptera; Fam. Blattidæ; Subfamily Phyllodrominæe.<73d. Fasc. Gen.
								Insect. Pp. 1--29, pls. 1--2.
							1908a--Orthoptera; Fam. Blattidæ; Subfam. Nyctoborinæ.<74th Fasc. Gen.
								Insect. Pp. 1--5, pl. I.
							1910--Orthoptera; Fam. Blattidæ; Subfam. Epilamprinæe.<101st Fasc. Gen.
								Insect. Pp. 1--21, pls. 1--2.
							1910a--Orthoptera; Fam. Blattidæ; Subfam. Blattinæ (Periplanetinæ). <109th
								Fasc. Gen. Insect. Pp. 1--27, pls. 1--2.
							1911--Preliminary Diagnoses of some new Genera of Blattidæ.<Ent. Month. Mag.,
								(2), XXII, 154--156.
						
					SHERMAN, F. & BRIMLEY, C.
						S.--1911--Orthoptera of North Carolina.<Ent. News, XXII, 387--392.
					SHULL, A. F.--1907--The Stridulation of the Snowy Tree Cricket
						(Oecanthus niveus).<Can. Ent., XXXIX, 213--225. 
							1911--The Thysanoptera and Orthoptera of the Sand Dune Region on the South Shore
								of Saginaw Bay, Mich.<Publ. 4, Biol. Ser. II, Mich. Geol. & Biol. Surv.,
								177--231.
						
					SIMPSON, C. B.--1903--The Yellow-winged Locust (Camnula pellucida
						Scudder).<Circ. No. 53, U. S. Div. Ent., 1--4.
					SLOSSON, MRS. A. T.--1901--On a Florida
						Beach.<Ent. News, XII, 10--12.
					SMITH, JOHN B.--1910--The Insects of New
						Jersey--Orthoptera.<Ann. Rept. N. Jer. St. Museum, 1909, 173--193.
					SMITH, SIDNEY I.--1868--On the Orthoptera of
						the State of Maine.<Proc. Portland Soc. Nat. Hist., I, 143--151. 
							1873--Report of the Entomologist.<Ann. Rep. Connecticut Board of Agr.,
								1872--1873, 345--383. Hartford.
						
					SOMES, M. P.--1914--The Acrididæ of Minnesota.<Bull. Div. Ent.
						Minn. Agr. Exp. Sta., No. 141, 1--98, pls. I--IV. St. Paul. 
							1916--The Phasmidæ of Minnesota, Iowa and Missouri.<Ent. News, XXVII,
								269--271.
						
					STAL, CARL--1873--Recensio Orthopterorum.
						Revue Critique des Orthopteres decrits par Linne, De Geer et Thunburg.--I, Fp. 4+154.
							
							1873a--Orthoptera nova.<Ofv. Vet. Ak. Forh. XXX, No. 4, 39--53.
								Stockholm.
							1874--Recensio Orthopterorum. Revue Critique des Orthopteres decrits par Linne,
								DeGeer et Thunburg.--II. Pp. 4+121.
							1875--Same, III. Pp. 4+105.
							1876--Observations Orthopterologiques.<Bihang. Svenska Akad., IV, No. 5.
								1--58. Stockholm.
							1877--Systema Mantodeorum.<Bihang. Svenska Akad., IV, No. 10. 1--98, pl. I.
								Stockholm.
						


					


					STOLL, CASPAR--1787--1813--Representation
						exactement colored d'apres nature des spectres ou phasmes, etc. Rassemblees et
						decrites.--I. Spectres et Mantes. Pp. 6+79, pls. 1--25. Amsterdam.
					THOMAS, CYRUS--1863--Written
						Communications.<Proc. Ent. Soc. Phil., I, 104. 
							1865--Insects Injurious to Vegetation in Illinois.<Trans. Ill. State Agr.
								Soc., V. 401--468. Springfield, Ill.
							1870--Descriptions of Grasshoppers from Colorado.<Pro.c. Acad. Nat. Sci.
								Phil., 74--84.
							1871--A List and Descriptions of New Species of Orthoptera.<Prelim. Rept. U.
								S. Geol. Surv. of Wyoming & Adjacent Terr., II, 1870, 265--284.
							1872--Notes on the Saltatorial Orthoptera of the Rocky Mountain
								Regions.<Prelim. Rep. U. S. Geol. Surv. of Montana and Portions of Adjacent
								Terr., 1871. 423--466, pls. I--II.
							1873--Synopsis of the Acrididæ of North America.<Hayden's Rep. U. S. Geol.
								Surv. Terr., V, 1--258, pl. I.
							1873a--Notes on Orthoptera.<Sixth Ann. Rep. U. S. Geol. Surv. of Montana,
								Idaho, Wyoming and Utah, 719--725.
							1874--Descriptions of some New Orthoptera, and Notes on some Species but Little
								Known.<Bull. U. S. Geol. & Geogr. Surv. Terr., I, No. 2, 63--71.
							1875--Report upon the Collections of Orthoptera made in Portions of Nevada,
								Utah, California, Colorado, New Mexico and Arizona during the Years
								1871--1874.<Wheeler's Rept. on Geol. & Geogr. Explor. and Surveys West of the
								100th Merid., V, 843--908, pls. XLIII--XLV.
							1876--A List of the Orthoptera of Illinois.<Bull. Ill. Mus. Nat. Hist., I,
								59--69.
							1880--The Acrididæ of Illinois.<Rep. State Entom. of Illinois, IX,
								73--140.
						
					THUNBERG, C. P.--1815--Hemipterorum maxillosorum genera
						illustrata.< Mem. Acad. Imp. Soc. St. Petersburg, V, 4to., 211--301, pl. 3.
					TOWNSEND, C. H. T.--1891--Notes on Acrididæ in Michigan.<Proc.
						Ent. Soc. Wash., II, 43--44.
					UHLER, P. R.--1859--(Notes on Orthoptera).<The Complete
						Writings of Thomas Say on the Entomology of N. America. 
							1862--(Notes on Orthoptera).<Harris, Insects Injurious to Vegetation, 3rd ed.
								Footnotes, pp. 141--191.
							1864--Orthopterological Contributions.<Proc. Ent. Soc. Phil., II,
								543--555.
							1884--Natural History of the Arthropods--Hemiptera.<Stand. Nat. Hist., II,
								204--288.
						
					VESTAL, A. G.--1913--An Associational Study of Illinois Sand
						Frairies.< Bull. Ill. State Lab. Nat. Hist., X, 1--96, pls. I--V. 
							1914--Notes on the Habits of Grasshoppers at Douglas Lake, Michigan. <Ent.
								News, XXV, 105--109.
						
					VOSSELER, J.--1902--Beitrage zur Faunistik und Biologie des
						Orthopteren Algeriens und Tunasiens.<Zool. Jahrb. f. Syst. Bd. 17, 1--98.
					WALDEN, B. H.--1911--The Euplexoptera and Orthoptera of
						Connecticut.< Bull. No. 16, State Geol. & Nat. Hist. Surv. Conn., 39--169, pls.
						VI--XI.
					WALKER, E. M.--1898--Notes on some Ontario Acrididæ.--I.<Can.
						Ent., XXX, 122--126: II, 258--263. 
							1899--Same,--III.<Can. Ent., XXXI, 29--36.
							1901--Same.--IV.<Can. Ent., XXXIII, 20--23.
							1902--The Canadian Species of Trimerotropis.<Can. Ent., XXXIV, 1--11.
							1902a--A Preliminary List of the Acrididæ of Ontario.<Can. Ent., XXXIV,
								251--258.
							1903--The Genus Podisma in Eastern North America.<Can. Ent. XXXV, 295--302,
								pl. 6.
							1904--The Crickets of Ontario.<Can. Ent., XXXVI, 142--144, 181--188,
								249--255, pl. 4.


							


							1904a--Notes on the Locustidæ of Ontario.<Can. Ent.,. XXXVI, 325--330,
								337--341.
							1905--Same.<Can. Ent., XXXVII, 34--38, 113--119.
							1906--Records in Orthoptera from the Canadian Northwest.<Can. Ent., XXXVIII,
								55--59.
							1909--On the Orthoptera of Northern Ontario.<Can. Ent., XLI, 137--144,
								173--178, 205--212, pl. 7.
							1910--The Orthoptera of Western Canada.<Can. Ent., XLII, 269--276, 293--300,
								333--340, 351--356.
							1911--On the Habits and Stridulation of Idionotus brevipes Caudell, and other
								Notes on Orthoptera.<Can. Ent., XLIII, 303--304.
							1914--A New Species of Orthoptera, Forming a New Genus and Family. <Can.
								Ent., XLVI, 93--99, pl. VI.
							1915--Notes on a Collection of Orthoptera from Prince Edward Island and the
								Magdalen Islands, Quebec.<Can. Ent., XLVII, 339--344.
						
					WALKER, FRANCIS--1868--A Catalogue of the
						Specimens of Blattariæ in the Collection of the British Museum. Pp. 4+239. London. 
							1869--Catalogue of the Specimens of Dermaptera Saltatoria in the Collection of
								the British Museum. Pt. I. Pp. 1--224; Pt. II, 225--423.
							1870--Same, Pt. III, pp. 424--604; Pt. IV, pp. 605--809.
							1871--Same, Pt. V, pp. 810--850.
						
					WALSH, B. D.--1864--On Phytophagic Varieties and Phytophagic
						Species. <Proc. Ent. Soc. Phil., III, 403--430. 
							1867--Habits of the Tree Cricket (Oecanthus niveus).<Practical Entomologist,
								II, 54, 94.
							WEBSTER, F. M.--1907--The Grasshopper Problem and Alfalfa
								Culture.< Circ. No. 84, U. S. Bur. Entom., Pp. 1--10.
							WEISS, H. B.--1914--Some Facts about the Egg Nest of
								Paratenodera sinensis. <Ent. News, XXV, 279--282. 
									1915--Gryllotalpa gryllotalpa, the European Mole Cricket in New
										Jersey.<Journ. Econ. Entom., VIII, 500.
								
							WEISS, H. B. & DICKERSON, E.
								L.--1918--The European Mole Cricket, Gryllotalpa gryllotalpa L., an Introduced
								Insect Pest.<Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., XXVI, 18--23, pl. II.
							WESTWOOD, J. O.--1889--Revisio Insectorum Familiæ Mantidarum
								speciebus novis aut minus cognitis descriptis et delineatis. Pp. 2+54+3, 14 pls.
								London.
							WHEELER, W. M.--1890--Notes on the Oviposition and
								Embryologic Development of Xiphidium ensiferum Scudder.<Insect Life, II,
								222--225. 
									1900--The Habits of Myrmecophila nebrascensis Bruner.<Psyche, IX,
										111--115.
									1907--Pink Insect Mutants.<Amer. Nat., XLI, 778--780.
								
							YERSIN, M. A.--1860--Note sur Quelques Orthopteres Nouveaux
								on Peu connus d'Europe.<Ann. Soc. Ent. France, (3) VIII, 509--537, pl. 10.
						
					
				
			

			
				GLOSSARY OF TERMS USED IN TEXT.

				The names of the more common parts or organs of an Orthopteron are fully explained on
					pages 13--23 and are not included in the glossary.
				
					Abbreviated.--Shortened; not of usual length.
					Aborted.--Imperfectly developed.
					Abrupt.--Suddenly or without gradation.
					Accessory.--Added, or in addition to.
					Acuminate.--Tapering to a point.
					Acutely.--Sharp; sharply pointed.
					Adult.--The imago or winged stage of an insect.
					Ammophilous.--Living in sandy places.
					Anal.--Situated at or near the anus.
					Annulus. annulate.--Ringed; furnished with ring-like bands.
					Anterior, anteriorly.-Situated near the front of any part.
					Apex.--The terminal portion of any organ or part of the
						body.
					Apical, apically.--That part of any organ farthest from the body
						or base.
					Appressed.--Pressed closely against; fitting closely to.



					


					Approximate.--Near to; near together.
					Apterous.--Wingless.
					Arboreal.--Living on or among trees.
					Arcuate.--Arched; bowed.
					Arolia.--A pad between the tarsal claws.
					Articulated.--Divided into distinct segments.
					Attenuated.--Drawn out; slender; tapering.
					Auditory organ.--Ear; hearing organ.
					Attingent.--Touching; with edges meeting.
					Band.--A tranverse marking broader than a line.
					Base.--That part of an appendage which is nearest the body; on the
						thorax that portion nearest the abdomen; on the abdomen that portion nearest the
						thorax.
					Basal.--Next to the body.
					Bifid.--Cleft; cloven in two.
					Calcaria.--The spines or spurs at the apex of the tibia.
					Carina, carinæ.--A keel or ridge.
					Carinate.--A surface having carinæ.
					Cerci.--Appendages issuing from the sides of last abdominal
						segment.
					Chitin.--The horn-like substance of the skin of an insect.
					Cinerous.--Ash-colored; gray tinged with blackish.
					Clavate.--Having a thickened, club-like extremity.
					Concave.--Hollowed out.
					Conical.--Cylindrical, with a flat base, tapering to a
						point.
					Contiguous.--So near together as to touch.
					Convex.--A surface with the center the highest.
					Cordiform, cordate.--Heart-shaped.
					Coriaceous.--Leather-like; tough and somewhat rigid.
					Corneous.--Of a horny texture.
					Cosmopolitan.--Liable to be found anywhere on earth.
					Costa.--A ridge or wide carina with crest rounded.
					Costal.--The front margin of tegmen or wing.
					Crenate.--Scalloped with rounded teeth.
					Crest.-A sharp ridge.
					Cristate.--With a prominent longitudinal carina on its upper
						surface.
					Dactyls.--Fingers or tibial projections of the mole
						crickets.
					Declivent.--Sloping downward.
					Decurved.--Bent downward.
					Deflexed.--Abruptly bent downward.
					Dendrophilous.-Living in trees.
					Depressed.--Pressed downward; more or less flattened
						vertically.
					Dentate.--Furnished with a tooth or teeth.
					Denticulations.--With fine tooth-like notches.
					Dilated.--Broadened; expanded.
					Dimorphic.--Existing in two forms.
					Disk.--The middle of a surface; the surface within the
						margins.
					Distal.--Farthest distance from the base or body.
					Distant.--Remote from; standing considerably apart.
					Diurnal.--Active during the day.
					Dorsum.--The upper surface or back of thorax, abdomen, etc.
					Dusky.--Somewhat darkened; pale fuscous.
					Elliptical.--Oblong-oval, the ends equally rounded.
					Elytra.--The wing covers; the tegmina.
					Emarginate.--Edged; notched; terminating in a notch at tip.
					Ensiform.--Sword-shaped; sharp on both edges and tapering to a
						point.
					Evanescent.--Disappearing; becoming gradually less.
					Evident.--Easily seen or recognized.
					Exserted.--Protruding so as to be visible.
					Facies.--General appearance.
					Falcate.--Sickle-shaped; curved like a sickle.
					Fascia.--A transverse band or broad line.
					Fastigium.--The extreme point of front or vertex of head.
					Fauna.--The animals of a locality.
					Ferruginous.--Rusty brown.


					


					Filiform.--Slender, thread-like.
					Fossorial.--Fit or used for digging or burrowing.
					Foveola.--A cavity or small depression.
					Front, frons.--Upper forward part of the head.
					Frontal.--Relating to the front or face.
					Fuliginous.--Sooty; dark brown:
					Fulvous.--Tawny or light yellowish brown.
					Furcula.--Processes of the last dorsal abdominal segment of
						male.
					Fuscous.--Dark brown, approaching black.
					Fusiform.--Spindle-shaped.
					Geophilous.--Living on the ground.
					Gibbous.--Protuberant; swollen.
					Glabrous.--Smooth or polished, not hairy.
					Glaucous.--Whitish-blue, inclining to gray.
					Granulated.--Furnished with minute prominences like grains of
						sand.
					Gregarious.--Living in societies or communities, but not
						social.
					Griseous.--Light gray (white and black).
					Habitat.--The place or region which an insect inhabits.
					Halophilous.--Salt-loving.
					Hexagonal.--Six sided.
					Hibernate.--To pass the winter in a dormant state.
					Host.--The individual furnishing food to a parasite.
					Humeral.--Situated on or near a humerus or front angle of the
						tegmen.
					Hyaline.--Transparent, with a greenish tinge.
					Hygrophilous.--Living in wet places.
					Imago.--An adult or winged insect.
					Immaculate.--Not marked; unspotted.
					Incised.--Notched or deeply cut into.
					Infuscated.--Smoky gray-brown, with a blackish tinge.
					Integument.--Outer covering, skin.
					Intercalary vein.--See p. 19.
					Interocular.--Between the eyes.
					Interrupted.--Suddenly stopped or broken.
					Lanceolate.--Lance-shaped.
					Linear.--Very slender.
					Longitudinal.--Lengthwise.
					Luteous.--Pale clay yellow.
					Maculate.--Spotted, marked with spots.
					Mandibles.--Hard and horny jaws.
					Marginal.--Situated on or near the margin.
					Median.--Occupying the middle.
					Membrane, membranous.--A thin tissue; consisting of a thin
						tissue.
					Mesonotum.--Upper or dorsal surface of the mesothorax.
					Mesosternum.--Under surface of the mesothorax.
					Mesothorax.--Middle part of thorax, to which the tegmina and
						middle pair of legs are attached.
					Metamorphosis.--Changes an insect undergoes before reaching
						maturity.
					Metanotum.--The upper or dorsal surface of the metathorax.
					Metathorax.--The hind part of the thorax to which the wings and
						hind pair of legs are attached.
					Metazona.--The hind dorsal part of the pronotum.
					Millimeter (mm.).--The thousandth part of a meter, equal to
						0.03937 of an inch.
					Nebulous.--Clouded; with uneven, cloudy markings.
					Nerves.--The large ribs or veins of tegmina and wings, extending
						from the base toward the apex.
					Nervules.--The smaller connecting veins of the tegmina and
						wings.
					Nocturnal.--Active at night.
					Nymph.--An immature insect, active and feeding in the larval and
						pupal stages.
					Obconic.--Conical, with the vertex pointing downward.
					Oblique.--Slanting; any direction between perpendicular and
						horizontal.
					Oblong.-Longer than broad.
					Obovate.--Inversely egg-shaped; the narrow end downward.



					


					Obsolete.--Wanting or nearly so; indistinct.
					Obtuse.--Blunt.
					Ocellus, ocelli.--The simple eyes.
					Occiput.--The back part of the head.
					Omnivorous.--Eating everything eatable.
					Oötheca.--A case enclosing eggs.
					Opaque.--Without lustre; impenetrable by light rays.
					Ovipositor.--The organ for depositing eggs.
					Oviposition.--The act of laying eggs.
					Pallium.--See page 23.
					Palpus, palpi.--Articulated and movable organs attached to the
						maxillæ and labium.
					Parasite.--An animal or plant which grows and lives upon
						another.
					Pellucid.--Transparent; translucent, but not necessarily
						colorless.
					Pentagonal.--Five-sided.
					Percurrent.--Running through the entire length.
					Piceous.--Pitchy black; the color of pitch.
					Pilose.--Having long, sparse hairs.
					Plane.--Level, flat; applied to a surface.
					Plasticity.--Capable of easy modification by environment,
						etc.
					Plumbeous.--Pale, blue-gray, like lead.
					Pre-apical.--Before the apex.
					Produced.--Drawn out; prolonged; extended from.
					Prosternum.--The fore-breast; the sclerite between the fore
						legs.
					Prosternal spine.--A spine projecting from the prosternum.
					Prothorax.--The first thoracic ring or segment bearing the front
						legs but no wings.
					Proximal.--Nearest the body; opposite of distal.
					Prozona.--Front dorsal part of the pronotum.
					Pubescent.--Downy; clothed with soft, short, fine hairs.
					Punctate, punctured.--Containing numerous small, point-like
						depressions or punctures.
					Pulvillus, pulvilli.--Little pads on under side of tarsal
						joints.
					Pyriform.--Pear-shaped.
					Quadrate.--Four-sided; square or nearly so.
					Restricted.--Confined to a limited area.
					Reticulate.--With net-like veins or markings.
					Rudimentary.--Not sufficiently developed to be of use.
					Rugose.--Rough, wrinkled; furnished with numerous small
						elevations.
					Rufous.--Dark reddish-brown.
					Saltatorial.--Fitted for leaping.
					Saxicolous.--Living on rocky ledges or bare rocks.
					Scabrous.--Covered with small, slight elevations; rough like a
						file.
					Segment.--Ring-like division or joint, as of the antennæ.
					Sequence.--The order in which things follow.
					Serrate.--Saw-toothed.
					Serrations.--Teeth like a saw.
					Serrulate.--Finely serrate; having minute serrations.
					Setaceous.--Bristle-shaped.
					Sinuate.--Winding in and out; twice or more curved.
					Sinus.--An excavation as if scooped out.
					Smooth.--Without elevations or wrinkles.
					Spatulate.--Paddle or spoon-shaped; flattened and broad at the
						apex.
					Speculum.--A special enclosed area on the apical half of tegmen of
						some Gryllidæ.
					Spinose.--Armed with spines.
					Spinulose.--Furnished with spinules or diminutive spines.
					Spurs.--The strong spines at the apex of the tibiæ.
					Sternite.--The ventral part of each abdominal segment.
					Sternum.--The ventral part of a body segment.
					Stridulate.--To make a shrill sound; to grate, scrape or creak
						with the stridulating organs.
					Styliform.--Shaped like a style.
					Sub.--A prefix meaning nearly; almost, somewhat; under,
						etc.


					


					Sub-costal vein.--See page 19.
					Sub-clavate.--Somewhat thickened toward tip; but not quite
						club-shaped.
					Subequal.--Similar but not quite equal in size, form or other
						characters.
					Sub-median vein.--See page 19.
					Subulate.--Awl-shaped; linear at base, attenuate at tip.
					Sulcate.--Grooved, furrowed.
					Sulcus, sulci.--A linear groove or channel.
					Suture.--A seam or impressed line.
					Sylvan.--Living in woods or forests.
					Synonym.--A name applied to a species or genus that has been
						previously described and named.
					Tarsus, tarsi (tarsal).--The jointed foot.
					Tectiform.--Ridged in the middle and sloping down on each
						side.
					Tegmina.--The fore wings, upper wings or wing covers.
					Terete.--Subcylindrical; straight without enlargements.
					Tergite (tergum).--The dorsal part of a body segment.
					Terrestrial.--Living on the ground.
					Testaceous.--Dull yellowish-brown; tile or brick colored.
					Thamnophilous.--Living on shrubs.
					Tip.--The extremity; the part furthest removed from the
						base.
					Transition zone.--The transcontinental belt in which the austral
						and boreal elements overlap.
					Translucent.--Transmitting very little light.
					Transverse.--Broader than long, with the longest diameter across
						the body.
					Tribe.--A term of classification less than a subfamily; usually
						ending in ini.
					Truncate.--Cut off squarely at tip.
					Tubercle.--A little solid pimple or small chitinous button.
					Tuberculate.--Formed like a tubercle; a surface covered with
						tubercles.
					Type.--A unique or single specimen selected from a series and
						labelled by the describer to represent his name and description.
					Typical.--The normal or usual form of a species; agreeing with the
						type form.
					Unarmed.--Without spurs, spines or armature of any kind.
					Unequal.--Unlike in size, form, development or other
						characters.
					Unique.-One only; unlike any other.
					Variety.--Any departure from the normal type of a species which,
						while retaining the specific characters, is yet recognizably different because of the
						climatic, seasonal or other influences; may occur with the type form or as a
						geographical race.
					Vertex.--The top of the head between the eyes, front and
						occiput.
					Vestiture.--The surface clothing, whether of a hairy or scaly
						character.
					Vittate.--Striped.
					Xerophilous.--Living in dry places.
				
			



			


			


				INDEX TO SYNONYMS AND NEW GENERIC ASSIGNMENTS AS RECOGNIZED IN THIS WORK.

				
					Page.
					Acheta guadeloupensis Fabricius==Anurogryllus
							muticus (DeG.) 690.
					Acheta hospes Fabricius==Nemobius fasciatus
						(DeG.) 674.
					Acheta nigra Harris==Gryllus assimilis
							pennsylvanicus Burm 702.
					Acheta vittata Harris==Neniobius fasciatus
						(DeG.) 674.
					Aegipan phalangium Scudder==Arethœa
							phalangium (Scudd.) 461.
					Acridium alutaceum Harris==Schistocerea
							alutacea (Harr.) 314.
					Acridium americana Drury==Schistocerca
							americana (Drury) 312.
					Acridium appendiculatum Uhler Ms.==Schistocerca
							damnifica calidior R. & H. 319.
					Acridium clavuliger Serville==Paroxya
							clavuliger (Serv.) 353.
					Acridium damnificum Saussure==Schistocerca
							damnifica (Sauss.) 318.
					Acridium differentiale Thomas==Melanoplus
							differentialis (Thos.) 440.
					Acridium emarginatum Scudder==Schistocerca
							alutacea (Harr.) 314.
					Acridium femur-rubrum DeGeer==Melanoplus
							femur-rubrum (DeG.) 419.
					Acridium frontalis Thomas==Hesperotettix
							speciosus (Scudd.) 335.
					Acridium micropterum Beauvois==Romalea
							microptera (Beauv.) 304.
					Acridium obscura (Fabricius)==Schistocerca
							obscura (Fab.) 317.
					Acridium rubignosum Scudder==Schistocerca
							alutacea rubiginosa (Scudd.) 316.
					Acrydium laterale Say==Tettigidea lateralis
						(Say) 182.
					Acrydium tuberculatum Beauvois==Hippiscus
							apiculatus (Harr.) 264.
					Acrydium viridifasciatum DeGeer==Chortophaga
							viridifasciata (DeG.) 256.
					Ageneotettix arenosus Hancock==Ageneotettix
							deorum (Scudd.) 237.
					Ageneotettix occidentalis Bruner==Ageneotettix
							deorum (Scudd.) 237.
					Amblycorypha carinata R. & H.==Amblycorypha
							oblongifolia carinata R. & H. 481.
					Amblycorypha floridana R. & H.==Amblycorypha
							oblongifolia floridana R. & H. 480.
					Amblytropidia subhyalina Scudder==Amblytropidia
							occidentalis (Sauss.) 221.
					Anisolabis azteca Dohrn==Anisolabis
							annulipes (Lucas) 47.
					Apotettix minutus R. & H.==Neotettix
							bolteri Hancock 173.
					Aptenopedes clara Rehn==Aptenopedes
							sphenarioides clara Rehn 347.
					Aptenopedes rufovittata Scudder ==Aptenopedes
							aptera Scudd. 347.
					Arcyptera gracilis Scudder==Mecostethus
							gracilis (Scudd.) 241.
					Arcyptera lineata Scudder==Mecostethus
							lineatus (Scudd.) 239.
					Arcyptera platyptera Scudder==Mecostethus
							platypterus (Scudd.) 242.
					Arethœa multiramosa Brunner==Arethœa
							phalangium (Scudd.) 461.
					Arnilia chlorizans (Walker)==Stenacris
							vitreipennis (Marsch) 310.
					Arphia sanguinaria Stål==Arphia
							pseudonietana (Thos.) 251.
					Arphia tenebrosa (Scudder)==Arphia
							pseudonietana (Thos.) 251.
					Atlanticus dorsalis (Blatchley nec. Burm.)==Atlanticus davisi R. & H. 594.
					Atlanticus dorsalis (Amer. auth. nec. Burm.)==Atlanticus americanus (Sauss.) 596.
					Atlanticus pachymerus (Amer. auth. nec. Burm.)==Atlanticus testaceus (Scudd.) 591.
					Aulocara scudderi Bruner==Ageneotettix
							deorum (Scudd.) 237.
					Bactromantis virga Scudder==Stagmomantis
							carolina (Johann.) 118.
					Bacunculus tenuescens Scudder==Manomera
							tenuescens (Scudd.) 139.
					Bacunculus blatchleyi Caudell==Manomera
							blatchleyi (Caudell) 140.
					Batrachidea carinata Scudder==Nomotettix
							cristatus (Scudd.) 157.
					Batrachidea cristata Scudder==Nomotettix
							cristatus (Scudd.) 157.
					Blatta americana Linnæus==Periplanata
							americana (Linn.) 99.
					Blatta australasiæ Fabricius==Periplanata
							australasiæ (Fabr.) 101.
					Blatta cubensis Saussure==Supella
							supellectilium (Serv.) 70.
					Blatta germanica Linnæus==Blattella
							germanica (Linn.) 73.
					Blatta nitidula Fabricius==Holocompsa
							nitidula (Fabr.) 107.
					Blatta pennsylvanica DeGeer==Parcoblatta
							pennsylvanica (DeG.) 86.
					Blatta supellectilium Serville==Supella
							supellectilium (Serv.) 70.
					Blatta surinamensis Linnæus==Pycnoscelus
							surinamensis (Linn.) 104.


					


					Page.
					Blattella adspersicollis (Amer. auth. nec. Stl.)==Latiblattella rehni Hebard 69.
					Caloptenus angustipennis Dodge==Melanoplus
							anqustipennis (Dodge) 425.
					Caloptenus atlanis Riley==Melanoplus
							atlanis (Riley) 414.
					Caloptenus bivittatus (Say)==Melanoplus
							bivittatus (Say) 446.
					Caloptenus borcalis Fieber==Melanoplus
							borealis (Fieb.) 422.
					Caloptenus clypeatus Scudder==Melanoplus
							clypeatus (Scudd.) 443.
					Caloptenus deletor Scudder==Melanoplus
							keeleri (Thos.) 436.
					Caloptenus devorator Scudder==Melanoplus
							femur-rubrum (DeG.) 419.
					Caloptenus extremus Walker==Melanoplus
							borealis (Fieb.) 422.
					Caloptenus fasciatus F. Walker==Melanoplus
							fasciatus (F. Walker) 400.
					Caloptenus femoratus Burmeister==Melanoplus
							bivitattus (Say) 446.
					Caloptenus floridanus Thomas==Paroxya
							clavuliger (Serv.) 353.
					Caloptenus griseus Thomas==Melanoplus
							punctulatus (Scudd.) 450.
					Caloptenus helluo Scudder==Melanoplus
							punctulatus (Scudd.) 450.
					Caloptenus keeleri Thomas==Melanoplus
							keeleri (Thes.) 436.
					Caloptenus luridus Dodge==Melanoplus keeleri
							luridus (Dodge) 437.
					Caloptenus minor Scudder==Melanoplus
							confusus Scudd. 434.
					Caloptenus nigrescens Scudder==Melanoplus
							nigrescens (Scudd.) 402.
					Caloptenus extremus F. Walker==Melanoplus
							borealis (Fieb.) 422.
					Caloptenus punctulatus Scudder==Melanoplus
							punctulatus (Scudd.) 450.
					Caloptenus robustus Scudder==Melanoplus
							ponderosus (Scudd.) 405.
					Caloptenus sanguinolentus Provancher==Melanoplus
							femur-rubrum (DeG.) 419.
					Caloptenus volucris Dodge==Phœtaliotes
							nebrascensis (Thos.) 357.
					Camptonotus scudderi Uhler==Camptonotus
							carolinensis (Gerst.) 603.
					Campylacantha acutipennis (Scudder)==Campylacantha olivacea (Scudd.) 325.
					Cavotettix apterus Hancock==Neotettix
							proavus R. & H. 174.
					Ceratinoptera diaphana (Amer. auth. nec. Fabr.==Aglaopteryx gemma Hebard 68.
					Ceratinoptera lutea Saussure & Zehntner==Cariblatta lutea (S. & Z.) 71.
					Ceuthophilus ater Scudder==Udeopsylla
							robusta (Hald.) 612.
					Ceuthophilus bicolor Scudder==Ceuthophilus
							maculatus (Harr.) 622.
					Ceuthophilus blatchleyi Scudder==Ceuthophilus
							uhleri Scudd. 627.
					Ceuthophilus devius Scudder==Udeopsylla
							robusta (Hald.) 612.
					Ceuthophilus grandis Scudder==Ceuthophilus
							gracilipes (Hald.) 630.
					Ceuthophilus heros Scudder==Ceuthophilus
							gracilipes heros Scudd. 633.
					Ceuthophilus latebricola Scudder==Ceuthophilus
							maculatus (Hald.) 622.
					Ceuthophilus latisulcus Blatchley==Ceuthophilus
							uhleri Scudd. 627.
					Ceuthophilus neglectus Scudder==Ceuthophilus
							nigricans Scudd. 621.
					Ceuthophilus niger Scudder==Udeopsylla
							robusta (Hald.) 612.
					Ceuthophilus pallipes E. M. Walker==Ceuthophilus
							gracilipes (Hald.) 630.
					Ceuthophilus politus Scudder==Udeopsylla
							robusta (Hald.) 612.
					Ceuthophilus sallei Scudder==Ceuthophilus
							caecus Scudd. 637.
					Ceuthophilus spinosus R. & H. nec Scudd.==Ceuthophilus rehebi sp. nov 626.
					Ceuthophilus virgatipes R. & H.==Ceuthophilus latibuli Scudd. 636.
					Chlœaltis brunnea Scudder==Dichromorpha
							viridis (Scudd.) 230.
					Chœaltis canadensis Provancher==Amblytropidia
							occidentalis (Sauss.) 221.
					Chlœaltis curtipennis Harris==Chorthippus
							curtipennis (Harr.) 234.
					Chlœaltis punctulata Scudder==Dichromorpha
							viridis (Scudd.) 230.
					Chlœaltis viridis Scudder==Dichromorpha
							viridis (Scudd.) 230.
					Chorisoneura plocea Rehn==Chorisoneura
							texensis (S. & Z.) 111.
					Chortophaga australior R. & H.==Chortophaga
							viridifasciata australior R. & H. 257.
					Chrysochraon abdominalis Thomas==Chlœaltis
							abdominalis (Thos.) 218.
					Chrysochraon deorum Scudder==Ageneotettix
							deorum (Scudd) 237.
					Chrysochraon obscurus Scudder==Pedeticum
							obscurum (Scudd.) 213.
					Clinocephalus pulcher R. &. H.==Clinocephalus elegans Morse 232.
					Conocephalus atlanticus Bruner==Neoconocephalus
							retusus (Scudd.) 528.
					Conocephalus attenuatus Scudder==Neoconocephalus
							ensiger (Harr.) 520.


					


					Page.
					Conocephalus bruneri Blatchley==Neoconocephalus
							exiliscanorus (Davis) 515.
					Conocephalus caudellianus Davis==Neoconocephalus
							caudellianus (Davis) 525.
					Conocephalus crepitans Scudder==Neoconocephalus
							robustus crepitans (Scudd.) 524.
					Conocephalus dissimilis (Amer. auth. nec. Serv.)==Neoconocephalus retusus (Scudd.) 528.
					Conocephalus dissimilis Serville==Neoconocephalus triops (Linn.) 529.
					Conocephalus ensiger Harris==Neoconocephalus
							ensiger (Harris) 520.
					Conocephalus fusco-striatus Redtenbacher==Neoconocephalus triops (Linn.) 529.
					Conocephalus hebes Scudder==Neoconocephalus
							triops (Linn.) 529.
					Conocephalus hoplomachus R. & H.==Homorocoryphus malivolans (Scudd.) 532.
					Concephalus lyristes R. & H.==Neoconocephalus nebrascensis lyristes (R. & H.) 518.
					Conocephalus malivolans Scudder==Homorocoryphus
							malivolans (Scudd.) 532.
					Conocephalus melanorhinus R. & H.==Neoconocephalus melanorhinus (R . & H .) 519.
					Conocephalus mexicanus Saussure==Neoconocephalus
							triops (Linn.) 531.
					Conocephalus nebrascensis Bruner==Neoconocephalus nebrascensis (Brun.) 517.
					Conocephalus nietoi (Amer. auth. nec. Sauss.)==Neoconocephalus triops (Linn.) 531.
					Conocephalus obtusus Burmeister==Neoconocephalus
							triops (Linn.) 531.
					Conocephalus palustris Blatchley==Neoconocephalus palustris (Blatch.) 526.
					Conocephalus retusus Scudder==Neoconocephalus
							retusus (Scudd.) 528.
					Conocephalus robustus Scudder==Neoconocephalus
							robustus (Scudd.) 522.
					Cryptoptilum antillarum (Redtenbacher) ==Cycloptilum antillarum (Redt.) 667.
					Cryptoptilum trigonipalpum R. & H..==Cycloptilum trigonipalpum (R. & H.) 668.
					Cycloptilus borealis Bruner==Cycloptilum
							squamosum Scudder 665.
					Cyrtacanthacris unilineata F. Walker==Schistocerca damnifica (Sauss.) 318.
					Cyrtophyllus concavus Scudder==Pterophylla
							camellifolia (Fab.) 406.
					Cyrtophyllus elongatus Caudell==Pterophylla
							camellifolia (Fab.) 406.
					Cyrtophyllus floridanus Beutenmüller==Lea
							floridensis (Beut.) 501.
					Cyrtophyllus intermedius Caudell==Pterophylla
							camellifolia intermedia (Caud.) 500.
					Cyrtophyllus perspicillatus Burmeister==Pterophylla camellifolia (Fab.) 406.
					Cyrtoxipha delicatula Scudder==Anaxipha
							pulicaria (Burm.) 731.
					Cyrtoxipha columbiana Caudell==Cyrtoxipha
							gundlachi columbiana Caud. 735.
					Daihinia gigantea Bruner==Udeopsylla
							robusta (Hald.) 612.
					Decticus derogatus F. Walker==Atlanticus
							americanus (Sauss.) 596.
					Decticus dorsalis Burmeister==Atlanticus
							dorsalis (Burm.) 598.
					Decticus pachymerus Burmeister==Atlanticus
							pachymerus (Burm.) 593.
					Dendrotettix longipennis Riley==Dendrotettix
							quercus Pack 337.
					Diapheromera dentricus Stål==Megaphasma
							dentricus (Stål) 142.
					Diapheromera sayi Gray==Diapheromera
							femorata (Say) 133.
					Dictyophorus reticulatis Thunberg==Romalea
							microptera (Beauv.) 304.
					Dissosteira bolli crepitans Saussure==Spharagemon crepitans (Sauss.) 278.
					Diestrammena marmorata (DeHaän)==Diestrammena
							japanica nom nov 611.
					Ectobia flavocincta Scudder==Parcoblatta
							pennsylvanica (DeG.) 86.
					Ectobia lithophila Scudder==Parcoblatta
							uhleriana (Sauss.) 81.
					Engoniaspis testacea Scudder==Atlanticus
							testaceus (Scudd.) 591.


					


					Page.
					Eotettix davisi Hebard==Melanoplus davisi
						(Hebard) 396.
					Eotettix hebardi Rehn==Melanoplus attenuatus
							hebardi (Rehn) 371.
					Eotettix quercicola Hebard==Melanoplus davisi
							quercicola (Hebard) 397.
					Eritettix carinatus (Scudder)==Eritettix
							simplex (Scudd.) 211.
					Eritettix sylvestrus Blatchley==Pedeticum
							obscurum (Scudd.) 213.
					Euborellia annulipes (Lucas)==Anisolabis
							annulipes (Lucas) 47.
					Eurycotis ingens (Scudder)==Eurycotis
							floridana (F. Walker) 97.
					Forficula aculeata Scudder==Doru aculeatum
						(Scudd.) 55.
					Forficula annulipes Lucas==Anisolabis
							annulipes (Lucas) 47.
					Forficula bidens Olivier==Labidura bidens
						(Oliv.) 48.
					Forficula maritima Gené==Anisolabis
							maritima (Gené) 47.
					Forficula minor (Linnæus)==Labia minor
						(Linn.) 51.
					Forfiscelia curvicauda Motsch.==Labia
							curvicauda (Motsch.) 52.
					Gomphocerus carinatus Scudder==Eritettix
							simplex (Scudd.) 211.
					Gomphocerus pelidna Burmeister==Orphulella
							pelidna (Burm.) 225.
					Gryllacris carolinensis Gerstæcker==Camptonotus
							carolinensis (Gerst.) 603.
					Gryllodes caraibeus Saussure==Anurogryllus
							muticus (DeG.) 690.
					Gryllodes clarazianus Saussure==Anurogryllus
							muticus (DeG.) 690.
					Gryllodes guyennensis Saussure==Miogryllus
							verticalis (Serv.) 693.
					Gryllodes poeyi Saussure==Gryllodes
							sigillatus (F. Walker) 692.
					Gryllotalpa borealis Burmeister==Gryllotalpa
							hexadactyla Perty 644.
					Gryllotalpa ponderosa Bruner==Gryllotalpa
							major Sauss. 647.
					Gryllotalpa vulgaris Latreille==Gryllotalpa
							gryllotalpa Linn. 648.
					Gryllus abbreviatus Serville==Gryllus assimilis
							luctuosus Serv. 700.
					Gryllus americanus Blatchley==Gryllus assimilis
							vernalis Blatch. 704.
					Gryllus angustulus F. Walker==Anurogryllus
							muticus (DeG.) 690.
					Gryllus angustus Scudder==Gryllus assimilis
							pennsylvanicus Burm. 702.
					Gryllus arenaceus Blatchley==Gryllus assimilis
							scudderianus Sauss. 700.
					Gryllus bipunctatus DeGeer==Neoxabea
							bipunctata (DeG.) 727.
					Gryllus bivittatus Say==Melanoplus
							bivittatus (Say) 446.
					Gryllus brevicornis Linn==Tryxalis
							brevicornis (Linn.) 198.
					Gryllus carolinus Johannson==Stagmomantis
							carolina (Johann.) 118.
					Gryllus firmus Scudder==Gryllus assimilis
							firmus Scudd. 699.
					Gryllus laplatæ Saussure==Miogryllus
							verticalis (Serv.) 693.
					Gryllus luctuosus Serville==Gryllus assimilis
							luctuosus Serv. 700.
					Gryllus muticus DeGeer==Anurogryllus
							muticus (DeG.) 690.
					Gryllus neglectus Scudder==Gryllus assimilis
							neglectus Scudd. 706.
					Gryllus nigerrimus F. Walker==Gryllus assimilis
							pennsylvanicus Burm. 702.
					Gryllus nigra (Harris)==Gryllus assimilis
							pennsylvanicus Burm. 702.
					Gryllus niveus DeGeer==Oecanthus niveus
						(DeG.) 714.
					Gryllus obscurus Fabricius==Schistocerca
							obscura (Fabr.) 317.
					Gryllus pennsylvanicus Burmeister==Gryllus
							assimilis pennsylvanicus Burm. 702.
					Gryllus pustulipes F. Walker==Gryllodes
							sigillatus (F. Walker) 692.
					Gryllus rubens Scudder==Gryllus assimilis
							scudderianus Sauss. 700.
					Gryllus scudderianus Saussure==Gryllus assimilis
							scudderianus Sauss. 700.
					Gryllus serialis Thunberg==Schistocerca
							americana (Drury) 312.
					Gryllus sigillatus F. Walker==Gryllodes
							sigillatus (F. Walker) 692.
					Gryllus sulphureus Fabricius==Arphia
							sulphurea (Fabr.) 253.
					Gryllus verticalis Serville==Miogryllus
							verticalis (Serv.) 693.
					Gryllus virginianus Fabricius==Chortophaga
							viridifasciata (DeG.) 256.
					Gryllus vitreipennis Marschall==Stenacris
							vitreipennis (Marsch.) 310.
					Hapithus quadratus Scudder==Hapitus
							agitator Uhler 739.
					Haplopus evadne Caudell nec. Westwood==Aplopus
							mayeri Caudell 144.
					Hesperotettix gemmicula Hebard==Hesperotettix
							pratensis gemmicula Hebard 333.
					Hippiscus citrinus Scudder==Hippiscus
							rugosus (Scudd.) 269.
					Hippiscus compactus Scudder==Hippiscus
							rugosus (Scudd.) 269.
					Hippiscus immaculatus Morse==Hippiscus
							rugosus (Scudd.) 269.
					Hippiscus nanus Saussure==Hippiscus
							haldemanii (Scudd.) 268.
					Hippiscus suturalis Scudder==Hippiscus
							rugosus (Scudd.) 269.



					


					Page.
					Hippiscus texanus Scudder==Hippiscus
							phœnicopterus (Burm.) 266.
					Hippiscus tuberculatus Beauvois (Amer. auth.)==Hippiscus apiculatus (Harr.) 264.
					Hippiscus variegatus Scudder==Hippiscus
							rugosus (Scudd.) 269.
					Idionotus brevipes Caudell==Idionotus
							sphagnorum (F. Walker.) 601.
					Ischnoptera bivittata Thomas==Blattella
							germanica (Linn.) 73.
					Ischnoptera bolliana Sauss. & Zehnt.==Parcoblatta bolliana (S. & Z.) 80.
					Ischnoptera borealis Brunner==Parcoblatta
							virginica (Brunner) 82.
					Ischnoptera couloniana Saussure==Parcoblatta
							pennsylvanica (DeG.) 86.
					Ischnoptera divisa Sauss. & Zehnt.==Parcoblatta pennsylvanica divisa (S. & Z.) 88.
					Ischnoptera fulvescens Sauss & Zehnt.==Parcoblatta fulvescens (S. & Z.) 83.
					Ischnoptera hyalina Scudder==Parcoblatta
							lata (Brunn.) 84.
					Ischnoptera inæqualis (Sauss. & Zehnt.)==Parcoblatta pennsylvanica (DeG.) 86.
					Ischnoptera insolita R. & H.==Parcoblatta
							caudelli Hebard 89.
					Ischnoptera intricata Blatchley==Parcoblatta
							uhleriana (Sauss.) 81.
					Ischnoptera johnsoni Rehn==Ischnoptera
							deropeltiformis (Brunn.) 75.
					Ischnoptera lata Brunner==Parcoblatta lata
						(Brunn.) 84.
					Ischnoptera major (Sauss & Zehnt.)==Parcoblatta lata (Brunn.) 84.
					Ischnoptera nigricollis F. Walker==Ischnoptera
							deropeltiformis (Brunn.) 75.
					Ischnoptera nortoniana Saussure==Parcoblatta
							pennsylvanica (DeG.) 86.
					Ischnoptera translucida Saussure==Parcoblatta
							pennsylvanica (DeG.) 86.
					Ischnoptera uhleriana Saussure==Parcoblatta
							uhleriana (Sauss.) 81.
					Kakerlac fuliginosa Serville==Periplanata
							fuliginosa (Serv.) 103.
					Kakerlac schæfferi Rehn==Parcoblatta
							bolliana (S. & Z.) 80.
					Labia brunnea Scudder==Prolabia arachidis
						(Yersin) 54.
					Labia burgessi Scudder==Prolabia pulchella
						(Serv.) 53.
					Labia guttata Scudder==Prolabia pulchella
						(Serv.) 53.
					Labia melancholica Scudder==Prolabia
							pulchella (Serv.) 53.
					Labia minuta Scudder==Labia minor (Linn.)
							51.
					Labia unidentata Burr nec Beauv.==Prolabia
							pulchella (Serv.) 53.
					Labidura riparia (Amer. Auth. nec. Pallas)==Labidura bidens (Oliv.) 48.
					Latindia cucullatus Sauss. & Zehnt.==Compsodes cucullatus (S. & Z.) 108.
					Libellula americana Drury==Schistocerca
							americana (Drury) 312.
					Liphoplus krugii (Amer. auth. nec. Sauss.)==Cycloptilum squamosum Scudd. 665.
					Liphoplus krugii Saussure==Cycloptilum
							antillarum (Redt.) 667.
					Liphoplus zebra R. & H.==Cycloptilum
							squamosum zebra (R. & H.) 666.
					Locusta abortiva Harris==Chlœaltis
							conspersa (Harr.) 215.
					Locusta apiculata Harris==Hippiscus
							apiculatus (Harr.) 264.
					Locusta camellifolia Fabricius==Pterophylla
							camellifolia (Fabr.) 406.
					Locusta carolinus Linnaeus==Dissosteira
							carolina (Linn.) 272.
					Locusta corallina Harris==Hippiscus
							apiculatus (Harr.) 264.
					Locusta curvicauda DeGeer==Scudderia
							curvicauda (DeG.) 469.
					Locusta eucerata Harris==Psinidia
							fenestralis (Serv.) 288.
					Locusta fasciata DeGeer==Conocephalus
							fasciatus (DeG.) 567.
					Locusta (Dictyophorus) guttatus Stoll==Romalea
							microptera (Beauv.) 304.
					Locusta infuscata Harris==Chortophaga
							viridifasciata (DeG.) 255.
					Locusta marmorata DeHaän==Diestrammena
							japanica nom. nov 611.
					Locusta marmorata Harris==Scirtetica
							marmorata (Harr.) 284
					Locusta maritima Harris==Trimerotropis
							maritima (Harr.) 293.
					Locusta nebulosa Harris==Encoptolophus
							sordidus (Burm.) 259.
					Locusta oblongifolia DeGeer==Amblycorypha
							oblongifolia (DeG.) 477.
					Locusta radiata Harris==Chortophaga
							viridifasciata (DeG.) 256.
					Locusta verruculata Kirby==Circotettix
							verruculatus (Kirby) 299.
					Macneillia obscura (Scudder)==Pedeticum
							obscurum .(Scudd.) 213.
					Manomera orthostylus Caudell==Manomera
							tenuescens (Scudd.) 139.
					Mantis carolina Burmeister==Stagmomantis
							carolina (Johann.) 118.
					Mantis chlorophæa Blanchard==Phyllovates
							chlorophæa (Blanch.) 129.


					


					Page.
					Mantis dimidiata Saussure==Stagmomantis
							carolina (Johann.) 118.
					Mantis grisea Fabricius==Gonatista grisea
						(Fabr.) 125.
					Mantis phryganoides Serville==Gonatista
							grisea (Fabr.) 125.
					Mantis stolli Saussure==Stagmomantis
							carolina (Johann.) 118.
					Mantis wheeleri Thomas==Stagmomantis
							carolina (Johann.) 118.
					Marsa arcuata F. Walker==Udeopsylla robusta
						(Hald.) 612.
					Melanoplus abortivus Walker==Melanoplus
							islandicus Blatch. 388.
					Melanoplus acidocercus Hebard==Melanoplus
							carnegiei acidocercus Hebard 396.
					Melanoplus alaskanus Scudder==Melanoplus
							bruneri Scudd. 413
					Melanoplus amplectens Scudder==Melanoplus
							walshii Scudd. 403.
					Melanoplus arboreus Scudder==Melanoplus
							punctulatus arboreus Scudd. 452.
					Melanoplus baconi McNeill==Melanoplus
							fasciatus (F. Walker) 400.
					Melanoplus blatchleyi Scudder==Melanoplus
							walshii Scudd. 403.
					Melanoplus cenchri McNeill==Melanoplus
							flavidus Scudd. 416.
					Melanoplus coccineipes Scudder==Melanoplus
							angustipennis (Dodge) 425.
					Melanoplus collinus Scudder==Melanoplus keeleri
							luridus (Dodge) 437.
					Melanoplus curtus Scudder==Melanoplus
							fasciatus (F. Walker) 400.
					Melanoplus deceptus Morse==Melanoplus
							viridipes Scudd. 365.
					Melanoplus deletor Scudder==Melanoplus
							keeleri (Thomas) 436.
					Melanoplus femoratus (Burmeister)==Melanoplus
							bivittatus (Say) 446.
					Melanoplus fœdus Scudder==Melanoplus
							packardii Scudd. 429.
					Melanoplus griseus (Thomas)==Melanoplus
							punctulatus (Scudd.) 450.
					Melanoplus harrisi Morse==Phœtaliotes
							nebrascensis (Thomas) 357.
					Melanoplus huroni Blatchley==Melanoplus dodgei
							huroni Blatch. 407.
					Melanoplus interior Scudder==Melanoplus
							femur-rubrum (DeG.) 419.
					Melanoplus inops Scudder==Melanoplus
							rotundipennis (Scudd.) 382.
					Melanoplus juvencus Scudder==Melanoplus
							viridipes Scudd. 365.
					Melanoplus luridus (Dodge)==Melanoplus keeleri
							luridus (Dodge) 437.
					Melanoplus macneilli Hart==Melanoplus
							fluviatilis Bruner 432.
					Melanoplus minor (Scudder)==Melanoplus
							confusus Scudd. 434.
					Melanoplus paroxyoides Scudder==Paroxya
							atlantica paroxyoides (Scudd.) 353.
					Melanoplus pegasus Hebard==Melanoplus furcatus
							pegasus Hebard 445.
					Melanoplus rectus Scudder==Melanoplus
							fasciatus (F. Walker) 400.
					Melanoplus similis Morse==Melanoplus
							viridipes Scudd. 365.
					Melanoplus sylvestris Morse==Melanoplus
							islandicus sylvestris Morse 389.
					Melanoplus symmetricus Morse==Melanoplus
							clypeatus symmetricus Morse 444.
					Melanoplus tribuloides Morse==Melanoplus
							tribulus tribuloides Morse 378.
					Mermiria belfragii Stål==Mermiria
							neomexicana (Thos.) 204.
					Mermiria vigilans Scudder==Mermiria alacris
						Scudd. 203.
					Mestobregma cineta Thomas==Mestobregma
							thomasi Caudell 290.
					Microcentrum affiliatum Scudder==Microcentrum
							rhombifolium (Sauss.) 485.
					Microcentrum laurifolium (Amer. auth. nec. Linn.)==Microcentrum rhombifolium (Sauss.) 485.
					Microcentrum rostratum R. & H.==Turpilia
							rostratrum (R. & H.) 492.
					Microcentirum thoracicum Scudder==Stilpnochlora
							couloniana (Sauss.) 490.
					Miogryllus oklahomæ Caudell==Miogryllus
							verticalis (Serv.) 693.
					Miogryllus saussurei Scudder==Miogryllus
							verticalis (Serv.) 693.
					Miogryllus transversalis Scudder==Gryllodes
							sigillatus (F. Walker) 692.
					Mogisoplistus barbouri Morse==Cycloptilum
							antillarum (Redt.) 667.
					Mogosiplistus slossoni Scudder==Cycloptilum
							antillarum (Redt.) 667.
					Nemobius abortivus Caudell==Nemobius fasciatus
							abortivus Caudell 676.
					Nemobius affinis Beutenmüller==Nemobius
							carolinus Scudd. 685.
					Nemobius angusticollis E. M. Walker==Nemobius
							carolinus Scudd. 685.
					Nemobius aterrimus Scudder (♀ )==Nemobius
							cubensis Sauss. 683.
					Nemobius aterrimus Scudder (♂ )==Nemobius
							fasciatus socius Scudd. 677.


					


					Page.
					Nemobius aurantius R. & H.==Nemobius
							palustris Blatch. 684.
					Nemobius bruneri Hebard==Nemobius
							variegatus (Bruner) 682.
					Nemobius canus Scudder==Nemobius fasciatus
							socius Scudd. 677.
					Nemobius carolinus (Blatchley nec. Scudd.)==Nemobius variegatus (Bruner) 682.
					Nemobius cubensis (Blatchley nec. Sauss.)==Nemobius griseus Walker 678.
					Nemobius exiguus Scudder==Nemobius
							fasciatus (DeG.) 674.
					Nemobius exiguus Blatchley==Nemobius
							carolinus Scudd. 685.
					Nemobius funeralis Hart==Nemobius griseus
							funeralis Hart 679.
					Nemobius hastatus Saussure==Nemobius fasciatus
							socius Scudd. 677.
					Nemobius janus Kirby==Nemobius carolinus
						Scudd. 685.
					Nemobius septentrionalis Provancher==Nemobius
							carolinus Scudd. 685.
					Nemobius socius Scudder==Nemobius fasciatus
							socius Scudd. 677.
					Nemobius utahensis Scudder==Nemobius
							fasciatus (DeG.) 674.
					Neoblattella adspersicollis R. & H. nec. Stål==Latiblattella rehni Hebard 69.
					Neoblattella detersa (Amer. auth. nec. Walker)==Latiblattella rehni Hebard 69.
					Neortus carolinus Brunner==Camptonotus
							carolinensis (Gerst.) 603.
					Neotettix bolivari Hancock==Neotettix
							femoratus (Scudd.) 172.
					Neotettix coarctatus Hancock==Neotettix
							bolteri Hancock 173.
					Neotettix hancocki Blatchley==Neotettix
							bolteri Hancock 173.
					Neotettix variabilis Hancock==Neotettix
							femoratus (Scudd.) 172.
					Neotettix rotundifrons Hancock==Neotettix
							femoratus (Scudd.) 172.
					Neotettix variabilis Hancock==Neotettix
							femoratus (Scudd.) 172.
					Nomotettix arcticus Hancock==Nomotettix
							validus Hancock 161.
					Nomotettix arcuatus Hancock==Nomotettix
							cristatus (Scudd.) 157.
					Nomotettix borealis E. M. Walker==Nomotettix
							cristatus sinuifrons Hancock 160.
					Nomotettix compressus Morse==Nomotettix
							cristatus compressus Morse 157.
					Nomotettix floridanus Hancock==Nomotettix
							cristatus floridanus Hancock 158.
					Nyctobora lævigata (Amer. auth. nec. Beauv.)==Leurolestes pallidus (Brunn.) 93.
					Nyctobora sericea (Amer. auth. nec. Burm.)==Nyctobora lævigata (Beauv.) 92.
					Oecanthus bipunctatus (DeGeer)==Neoxabea
							bipunetata (DeG.) 727.
					Oecanthus fasciatus Fitch==Oecanthus
							nigricornis F. Walker 719.
					Oecanthus forbesi Titus==Oecanthus nigricornis
							quadripunctatus (Beut..) 722.
					Oecanthus formosus F. Walker==Neoxabea
							bipunetata (DeG.) 727.
					Oecanthus punctulatus Fitch==Neoxabea
							bipunetata (DeG.) 727.
					Oecanthus quadripunctatus Beutenmüller==Oecanthus nigricornis quadripunctatus (Beut.) 722.
					Oedipoda carinata Scudder==Arphia
							xanthoptera (Burm.) 249.
					Oedipoda discoidea Serville==Hippiscus
							phœnicopterus (Burm.) 266.
					Oedipoda fenestralis Serville==Psinidia
							fenestralis (Serv.) 288.
					Oedipoda haldemanii Scudder==Hippiscus
							haldemanii (Scudd.) 268.
					Oedipoda obliterata Germar==Hippiscus
							apiculatus (Harr.) 264.
					Oedipoda pellucida Provancher==Encoptolophus
							sordidus (Burm.) 259.
					Oedipoda pellucida Scudder==Camnula
							pellucida (Scudder) 261.
					Oedipoda phœnicoptera Burmeister==Hippiscus
							phœnicopterus (Burm.) 266.
					Oedipoda rugosa Scudder==Hippiscus rugosus
						(Scudd.) 269.
					Oedipoda sordida Burmeister==Encoptolophus
							sordidus (Burm.) 259.
					Oedipoda sulphurea Fabricius==Arphia
							sulphurea (Fabr.) 252.
					Oedipoda tenebrosa Scudder==Arphia
							pseudonietana (Thos.) 251.
					Oedipoda wyomingiana Thomas==Spharagemon
							wyomingianum (Thos.) 281.
					Oedipoda xanthoptera Burmeister==Arphia
							xanthoptera (Burm.) 249.
					Oligonyx uhleri Stål==Oligonyx scudderi
						Sauss. 126


					


					Page.
					Ommatolampis brevipennis Thomas==Hesperotettix
							brevipennis (Thos.) 330.
					Opomala aptera Scudder==Pseudopomala
							brachyptera (Scudd.) 200.
					Opomala bivittata Serville==Mermiria
							bivittata (Serv.) 205.
					Opomala brachyptera Scudder=Pseudopomala
							brachyptera (Scudd.) 200.
					Opomala marginicollis Serville==Leptysma
							marginicollis (Serv.) 307.
					Orchelimum bruneri Blatchley==Orchelimum
							volantum McNeill 560.
					Orchelimum campestre Blatchley==Orchelimum
							concinnum campestre Blatch. 556.
					Orchelimum crusculum Davis==Orchelimum
							fidicinium R. & H. 558.
					Orchelimum glaucum Serville==Orchelimum
							agile (DeG.) 539.
					Orchelimum gracile Harris==Concocephalus
							fasciatus (DeG.) 567.
					Orchelimum gracile Bruner==Orchelimum concinnum
							deticatum Bruner 556.
					Orchelimum gracilimum Griffini==Orchelimum
							concinnum delicatum Bruner 556.
					Orchelimum indianense Blatchley==Orchelimum
							concinnum Scudd. 554.
					Orchelimum longipennis Scudder==Orchelimum
							concinnum Scudd. 554.
					Orchelimum manitobense E. M. Walker==Orchelimum
							gladiator Bruner. 545.
					Orchelimum molossum R. & H.==Orchelimunm
							agile (DeG.) 539.
					Orchelimum nitidum Redtenbacher==Orchelimum
							agile (DeG.) 539.
					Orchelimum silvaticum McNeill==Orchelimum
							agile (DeG.) 539.
					Orchelimum spinulosum Redtenbacher==Orchelimum
							agile (DeG.) 539.
					Orchesticus americanus Saussure==Atlanticus
							americanus (Sauss.) 596.
					Orocharis uhleri McNeill==Hapithus agitator
						Uhler 739.
					Orphulella pratorum Scudder==Orphulella
							pelidna (Burm.) 225.
					Panchlora poeyi Saussure==Panchlora
							cubensis (Sauss.) 105.
					Panchlora viridis (Amer. auth. nec. Sauss.)==Panchlora cubensis (Sauss.) 105.
					Paratettix rugosus (Scudder)==Apotettix
							rugosus (Scudd.) 178.
					Paratettix texanus Hancock==Paratettix
							cucullatus (Burm.) 175.
					Paroxya floridana (Thomas)==Paroxya
							clavuliger (Serv.) 353.
					Paroxya hoosieri (Blatchley)==Paroxya clavuliger
							hoosieri (Blatch.) 355.
					Paroxya scudderi Blatchley==Paroxya
							atlantica Scudd. 351.
					Periplaneta floridana F. Walker==Eurycotis
							floridana (F. Walker) 97.
					Periplaneta orientalis Burmeister==Blatta
							orientalis Linn. 94.
					Periplaneta semipicta F. Walker==Eurycotis
							floridana (F. Walker) 97.
					Periplaneta truncata Krauss==Periplaneta
							brunnea Brunn. 101.
					Pezotettix abditum Dodge==Melanoplus
							dawsoni (Scudd.) 393.
					Pezotettix acutipennis Scudder==Campylacantha
							olivacea (Scudd.) 325.
					Pezotettix autumnalis Dodge==Phœtaliotes
							nebrascensis (Thos.) 357.
					Pezotettix dawsoni Scudder==Melanoplus
							dawsoni (Scudd.) 393.
					Pezotettix glacialis Scudder==Podisma
							glacialis (Scudd.) 341.
					Pezotettix gracilis Bruner==Melanoplus
							gracilis (Bruner) 362.
					Pezotettix hoosieri Blatchley==Paroxya
							clavuliger hoosieri (Blatch.) 355.
					Pezotettix minutipennis Thomas==Melanoplus
							gracilis (Bruner) 362.
					Pezotettix nebrascensis Thomas==Phœtaliotes
							nebrascensis (Thos.) 357.
					Pezotettix obovatipennis Blatchley==Melanoplus
							obovatipennis (Blatch.) 374.
					Pezotettix occidentalisBruner==Melanoplus
							walshii Scudd. 403.
					Pezotettix olivacea Scudder==Campylacantha
							olivacea (Scudd.) 325.
					Pezotettix puer Scudder==Melanoplus puer
						(Scudd.) 381.
					Pezotettix rotundipennis Scudder==Melanoplus
							rotundipennis (Scudd.) 382.
					Pezotettix scudderi Uhler==Melanoplus
							scudderi (Uhler) 394.
					Pezotettix septentrionalis Saussure==Melanoplus
							borealis (Fieb.) 422.
					Pezotettix speciosa Scudder==Hesperotettix
							speciosus (Scudd.) 335.
					Pezotettix tellustris Scudder==Melanoplus
							dawsoni (Scudd.) 393.
					Pezotettix unicolor Thomas==Melanoplus
							scudderi (Uhler) 394.
					Pezotettix viola Thomas==Melanoplus
							ponderosus (Scudd.) 405.
					Pezotettix viridipes Walsh Ms.==Melanoplus
							viridipes Scudd. 365.


					



					Page.
					Phaneroptera septentrionalis Serville==Scudderia
							septentrionalis (Serv.) 464.
					Phasma buprestoides Stoll==Anisomorpha
							buprestoides (Stoll) 145.
					Phasma ferruginea Beauvois==Anisomorpha
							ferruginea (Beauv.) 146.
					Phyllodromia borealis Saussure==Parcoblatta
							pennsylvanica (DeG.) 86.
					Phylloptera retinerve Burmeister==Microcentrum
							retinerve (Burm.) 489.
					Phylloptera rhombifolium Saussure==Microcentrum
							rhombifolium (Sauss.) 485.
					Phylloptera rotundifolia Scudder==Amblycorypha
							rotundifolia (Scudd.) 483.
					Platamodes unicolor Scudder==Parcoblatta
							uhleriana (Sauss.) 81.
					Platycleis fletcheri Caudell==Iionotus
							sphagnorum (F. Walker) 601.
					Platyphyllum concavum Harris==Pterophylla
							camellifolia (Fabr.) 496.
					Platyzosteria ingens Scudder==Eurycotis
							floridana (F. Walker) 97.
					Platyzosteria sabalianus Scudder==Eurycotis
							floridana (F. Walker) 97.
					Plectoptera poeyi (R. &. H. nec. Sauss.)==Plectoptera floridana Hebard 112.
					Podisma australis Morse==Dendrotettix
							scudderi (Morse) 339.
					Podisma scudderi Morse==Dendrotettix
							scudderi (Morse) 339.
					Pycnoscelus obscurus Scudder==Pycnoscelus
							surinamensis (Linn.) 104.
					Radinotatum peninsulare R. & H.==Radinotatum
							brevipenne (Thos.) 195.
					Rhaphidophora maculata Harris==Ceuthophilus
							maculatus (Harr.) 622.
					Rhaphidophora stygia Scudder==Ceuthophilus
							stygius (Scudd.) 634.
					Rhaphidophora cavernarum Saussure==Hadenœcus
							subterraneus (Scudd.) 608.
					Rhaphidophora subterranea Scudder=Hadenœcus
							subterraneus (Scudd.) 608.
					Rhomalea centurio Thomas==Romalea
							microptera (Beauv.) 304.
					Rhomalea gloveri Kirby==Romalea microptera
						(Beauv. ) 304.
					Romalea marciServille==Romalea microptera
						(Beauv.) 304.
					Scapteriscus didactylus (Amer. auth. nec. Latreille)==Scapteriscus vicinus Scudd. 651.
					Schistocerca calidior R. & H.==Schistocerca
							damnifica-calidior R. & H. 319.
					Schistocerca rubiginosa (Scudder)==Schistocerca
							alutacea rubiginosa (Scudd.) 316
					Schistocerca serialis (Thunb.)==Schistocerca
							americana (Drury) 312.
					Scirtetica picta (Scudder)==Scirtetica marmorata
							picta (Scudd.) 285.
					Scudderia cuneata Morse==Scudderia furcata
							cuneata Morse 474.
					Scudderia curvicauda borealis R. & H.==Scudderia curvicauda (DeG.). 469.
					Scudderia fasciata Beutenmüller==Scudderia
							furcata Brunn. 472.
					Scudderia truncata Beutenmüller==Scudderia
							septentrionalis (Serv.) 464.
					Spectrum bivittatum Say==Anisomorpha
							buprestoides (Stoll) 145.
					Spectrum femoratum Say==Diapheromera
							femorata (Say) 133.
					Spharagemon æquale scudderi Morse==Spharagemon
							wyomingianum (Thos.) 281.
					Spharagemon balteatum Scudder==Spharagemon
							bolli Scudd. 276.
					Spharagemon collare scudderi Morse==Spharagemon
							wyomingianum (Thos.) 281.
					Spharagemon oculatum Morse==Spharagemon
							wyomingianum (Thos.). 281.
					Spongophora brunneipennis (Serville)==Vostox
							brunneipennis (Serv.) 50.
					Stagmomantis ferox Saussure==Stagmomantis
							carolina (Johann.) 118.
					Stenacris chlorizans F. Walker==Stenacris
							vitreipennis (Marsch.) 310.
					Stenobothrus admirabilis Uhler==Syrbula
							admirabilis (Uhler) 209.
					Stenobothrus æqualis Scudder==Orphulella
							speciosa (Scudd.) 229.
					Stenobothrus bicolor Thomas==Amphitornus
							bicolor (Thos.) 220.
					Stenobothrus bilineatus Scudder==Orphulella
							speciosa (Scudd.) 229.
					Stenobothrus coloradensis McNeill==Chorthippus
							curtipennis (Harr.) 234.
					Stenobothrus coloradus Thomas==Amphitornus
							bicolor (Thos.) 220.
					Stenobothrus gracilis Scudder==Orphulella
							speciosa (Scudd.) 229.
					Stenobothrus longipennis Scudder==Chorthippus
							curtipennis (Harr.) 234.



					


					Page.
					Stenobothrus maculipennis Scudder==Orphulella
							pelidna (Burm.) 225.
					Stenobothrus occidentalis Saussure==Amblytropidia occidentalis (Sauss.) 221.
					Stenobothrus propinquans Scudder==Orphulella
							pelidna (Burm.) 225.
					Stenobothrus speciosa Scudder==Orphulella
							speciosa (Scudd.) 229.
					Stenobothrus subconspersus F. Walker==Amblytropidia occidentalis (Sauss.) 221.
					Stenobothrus unicolor Thomas==Amphitornus
							bicolor (Thos.) 220.
					Stilpnochlora marginella (Amer. auth. nec. Serv.)==Stilpnochlora couloniana (Sauss.) 490.
					Stylopyga orientalis Fischer==Blatta
							orientalis Linn. 94.
					Temnopteryx deropeltiformis Brunner==Ischnoptera
							deropeltiformis (Brunn.) 75.
					Temnopteryx major Sauss. & Zehnt.==Parcoblatta lata (Brunn.) 84.
					Temnopteryx marginata Scudder==Parcoblatta
							pennsylvanica (DeG.) 86.
					Temnopteryx virginica Brunner==Parcoblatta
							virginica (Brunn.) 82.
					Tenodera aridifolia sinensis Saussure==Paratenodera sinensis (Sauss.) 122.
					Tetrix arenosus Burmeister==Acrydium
							arenosum (Burm.) 169.
					Tetrix parvipennis Harris==Tettigidea lateralis
							parvipennis (Harr.) 183.
					Tetrix polymorpha Burmeister==Tettigidea
							lateralis (Say) 182.
					Tettigidea acadica Scudder==Acrydium
							acadicum (Scudd.) 167.
					Tettigidea acuta Morse==Tettigidea
							lateralis (Say) 182.
					Tettigidea davisi Morse==Tettigidea armata
						Morse 185.
					Tettigidea medialis Hancock==Tettigidea
							lateralis (Say) 182.
					Tettigidea obesa Scudder==Paxilla obesa
						(Scudd.) 179.
					Tettigidea pennata Morse==Tettigidea lateralis
							parvipennis (Harr.) 183.
					Tettigidea spicata Morse==Tettigidea armata
							spicata Morse 186.
					Tettix angustus Hancock==Acrydium arenosum
							obscurum (Hanc.) 169.
					Tettix blatchleyi Hancock==Acrydium arenosum
							blatchleyi (Hanc.) 170.
					Tettix brunneri Bolivar==Acrydium brunneri
						(Bolivar) 165.
					Tettix crassus Morse==Acrydium ornatum Say
							165.
					Tettix cucullatus Burmeister==Paratettix
							cucullatus (Burm.) 175.
					Tettix decoratus Hancock==Acrydium arenosum
							obscurum (Hanc.) 169.
					Tettix femoratus Scudder==Neotettix
							femoratus (Scudd.) 172.
					Tettix fluctuosus Hancock==Acrydium arenosum
							obscurum (Hanc.) 169.
					Tettix gibbosa Hancock==Acrydium arenosum
							obscurum (Hanc.) 169.
					Tettix hancocki Morse==Acrydium ornatum
							hancocki (Morse) 167.
					Tettix inflatus Hancock==Acrydium arenosum
							obscurum (Hanc.) 169.
					Tettix luggeri Hancock==Acrydium granulatum
						Kirby 164.
					Tettix morsei Hancock==Acydium granulatum
						Kirby 164.
					Tettix rugosa Scudder==Apotettix rugosus
						(Scudd.) 178.
					Tettix tentatus Morse==Acrydium brunneri
						(Bolivar) 165.
					Tettix triangularis Scudder==Acrydium
							ornatum Say 165.
					Thyreonotus pachymerus (Amer. auth. nec. Burm.)==Atlanticus testaceus (Scudd.) 591.
					Tomonotus nietanus Thomas==Arphia
							pseudonietana (Thos.) 251.
					Tomonotus pseudonietanus Thomas==Arphia
							pseudonietana (Thos.) 251.
					Tomonotus zimmermanni Saussure==Chortophaga
							viridifasciata (DeG.) 256.
					Tragocephala viridifasciata Harris==Chortophaga
							viridifasciata (DeG.) 256.
					Tridactylus fissipes Saussure==Tridactylus
							apicalis Say 656.
					Tridactylus histrio Saussure==Ellipes
							minuta (Scudd.) 658.
					Tridactylus histrionicus Saussure==Ellipes
							minuta (Scudd.) 658.
					Tridactylus illinoiensis Thomas==Tridactylus
							apicalis Say 656.
					Tridactylus incertus Saussure==Tridactylus
							apicalis Say 656.
					Tridactylus minutus Scudder==Ellipes minuta
						(Scudd.) 658.
					Tridactylus mixtus Haldeman==Tridactylus
							apicalis Say 656.
					Tridactylus terminalis Scudder==Tridactylus
							apicalis Say 656.
					Tridactylus tibialis Guerin==Tridactylus
							apicalis Say 656.


					


					Page.
					Trimerotropis acta Hebard==Trimerotropis
							maritima acta Hebard 295.
					Trimerotropis maritima interior Walker==Trimerotropis maritima (Harr.) 293.
					Trimerotropis picta Scudder==Scirtetica marmorata
							picta (Scudd.) 285.
					Truxalis angusticornis Stål==Dichromorpha
							viridis (Scudd.) 230.
					Tryxalis brevipennis Thomas==Radinotatum
							brevipenne (Thos.) 195.
					Udeopsylla compacta Bruner==Udeopsylla
							robusta (Hald.) 612.
					Udeopsylla nigra Scudder==Udeopsylla robusta
						(Hald.) 612.
					Xabea bipunctatus (DeGeer)==Neoxabea
							bipunctata (DeG.) 727.
					Xiphidium allardi Caudell==Conocephalus
							allardi (Caudell) 567.
					Xiphidium attenuatum Scudder==Concephalus
							attenuatus (Scudd.) 578.
					Xiphidium brevipennis Scudder==Conocephalus
							brevipennis (Scudd.) 570.
					Xiphidium curtipenne Redtenbacher==Conocephalus
							nemoralis (Scudd.) 572.
					Xiphidium ensifer Scudder==Conocephalus
							brevipennis (Scudd.) 570.
					Xiphidium fasciatum (DeGeer)==Conocephalus
							fasciatus (DeG.) 567.
					Xiphidium gossypii Scudder==Conocephalus
							brevipennis (Scudd.) 570.
					Xiphidium gracillimum Morse==Conocephalus
							gracillimus (Morse) 569.
					Xiphidium lanceolatum Bruner==Conocephalus
							attenuatus (Scudd.) 578.
					Xiphidium modestum Bruner==Conocephalus
							saltans (Scudd.) 582.
					Xiphidium nemorale Scudder==Conocephalus
							nemoralis (Scudd.) 572.
					Xiphidium nigropleuroides Fox==Conocephalus
							nigropleuroides (Fox) 579.
					Xiphidium nigropleurum Bruner==Conocephalus
							nigropleurus (Bruner) 576.
					Xiphidium (O.) robustum Redtenbacher==Orchelimum
							nigripes Scudd. 549.
					Xiphidium saltans Scudder==Conocephalus
							saltans Scudd. 582.
					Xiphidium scudderi Blatchley==Conocephalus
							attenuatus (Scudd.) 578.
					Xiphidium spartinæ Fox==Conocephalus
							spartinæ (Fox) 580.
					Xiphidium strictim Scudder==Conocephalus
							strictus (Scudd.) 573.
					Xiphidium tæniaum Redtenbacher==Conocephalus
							saltans (Scudd.) 582.
				

				
			



			

				GENERAL INDEX

				Families end in idæ; subfamilies in inæ. Species and varieties are indexed only where a
					genus is represented by five or more, when they are indexed under the generic name.

				
					Page.
					Acrididæ,
						187.
					Acrydium,
						161.
						
							acadicum,
								167.
							arenosum,
								168.
							blatchleyi,
								170.
							bruneri,
								165.
							granulatum,
								163.
							hancocki,
								167.
							obscurum,
								169.
							ornatum,
								165.
						
					Ageneotettix,
						236.
					Aglaopteryx,
						68.
					Amblycorypha,
						476.
						
							carinata,
								481.
							floridana,
								480.
							oblongifolia,
								477.
							rotundifolia,
								483.
							uhleri,
								482.
						
					Amblytropidi,
						207.
					Amblytropidia,
						221.
					Amphitornus,
						219.
					Anaxipha,
						729.
						
							exigua,
								730.
							imitator,
								733.
							pulicaria,
								731.
							scia,
								732.
							vittata,
								732.
						
					Anisolabis,
						46.
					Anisomorpha,
						145.
					Anisomorphinæ,
						144.

					Page.
					Anurogryllus,
						690.
					Aplopus,
						143.
					Apotettix,
						178.
					Aptenopedes,
						344.
					Arenivaga,
						109.
					Arethæa,
						400.
					Arphia,
						247.
					Atlanticus,
						587.
						
							americanus,
								596.
							calcaratus,
								600.
							davisi,
								594.
							dorsalis,
								598.
							gibbosus,
								597.
							glaber
								599.
							monticola,
								595.
							pachymerus,
								593.
							testaceus,
								591.
						
					Bacunculinæ,
						131.
					Batrachidinæ,
						179.
					Belocephalus,
						503.
						
							davisi,
								507.
							excavatus,
								508.
							hebardi,
								508.
							micanopy,
								509.
							rehni,
								509.
							sabalis,
								504.
							sleighti,
								506.
							subapterus,
								506.
						
					Bibliography,
						747.
					Blaberinæ,
						106.

					Page.
					Blaberus,
						106.
					Blatta,
						94.
					Blattella,
						73.
					Blattinæ,
						93.
					Blattidae,
						59.
					Callimantis,
						123.
					Camnula,
						260.
					Camptonotus,
						602.
					Campylacantha,
						325.
					Cariblatta,
						71.
					Ceuthopbilus,
						613.
						
							brevipes,
								624.
							cæcus,
								637.
							davisi,
								625.
							ensifer,
								621.
							gracilipes,
								630.
							heros,
								633.
							latens,
								630.
							latibuli,
								636.
							maculatus,
								622.
							nigricans,
								621.
							peninsularis,
								638.
							rehebi,
								626.
							seclusus,
								629.
							spinosus,
								628.
							stygius,
								634.
							tenebrarum,
								624
							terrestris,
								636.
							uhleri,
								627.
						
					Chelisoches,
						58.


					


					Page.
					Chœaltis,
						214.
					Chorisoneura,
						111.
					Chorthippi,
						233.
					Chorthippus,
						234.
					Chortophaga,
						254.
					Circotettix,
						299.
					Clinocephalus,
						232.
					Compsodes,
						108.
					Conocephalinæ,
						533.
					Conocephalus,
						562.
						
							aigialus,
								576.
							allardi,
								567.
							attenuatus,
								578.
							brevipennis,
								570.
							fasciatus,
								567.
							gracillimus,
								569.
							nemoralis,
								572.
							nigropleurus,
								576.
							nigropleuroides,
								579.
							saltans,
								582.
							spartinæ,
								580.
							stictomerus,
								575.
							strictus,
								573.
							viridifrons,
								583.
						
					Copiphorinæ,
						502.
					Corydiinæ,
						107.
					Cryptocercus,
						113.
					Cursoria,
						113.
					Cycloptilum,
						664.
					Cyrtoxipha,
						734.
					Decticinæ,
						586.
					Dendrotettix,
						337.
					Dermaptoria,
						42.
					Diapheromera,
						132.
					Dichromorpha,
						230.
					Diastremmena,
						610.
					Dissosteira,
						271.
					Doru,
						55.
					Ellipes,
						658.
					Encoptolophus,
						258.
					Eneopterinæ,
						737.
					Eotettix,
						327.
					Epilamprinæ,
						93.
					Eremiaphilinæ,
						128.
					Eritettix,
						210.
					Eurycotis,
						97.
					Falcicula,
						733.
					Forficula,
						57.
					Forficulidæ,
						42.
					ForficuIinæ,
						54.
					Glossary,
						767.
					Gonatista,
						124.
					Gressoria,
						114.
					Gryllacrinæ,
						602.
					Gryllidæ,
						638.
					Gryllinae,
						670.
					Gryllotalpa,
						643.
					Gryllotalpinæ,
						642.
					Gryllodes,
						692.
					Gryllus,
						696.
						
							assimilis,
								698.
							domesticus,
								707.
							firmus,
								699.
							luctuosus,
								700.
							neglectus,
								706.
							pennsylvanicus,
								702.
							scudderianus,
								700.
							vernalis,
								704.
						
					Gymnoscirtetes,
						322.
					Hadenœcus,
						608.
					Hapithus,
						738.
					Hesperotettix,
						329.
						
							brevipennis,
								330.
							floridensis,
								336.
							gemmicula,
								333
							osceola,
								334.
							pratensis,
								331.
							speciosus, 
								335.
						

					Page.
					Heteronemia,
						141.
					Hippisci,
						246.
					Hippiscus,
						262.
					Holocompsa,
						107.
					Homorocoryphus,
						531.
					Hygronemobius,
						688.
					Idionotus,
						600.
					Ischnoptera,
						75.
					Labia,
						51.
					Labidurinæ,
						46.
					Labidura,
						48.
					Labiinæ,
						49.
					Latiblattella,
						69.
					Lea,
						500.
					Leptysma,
						307.
					Life Zones,
						745.
					Locustinæ,
						302.
					Manomera,
						138.
					Mantidæ,
						115.
					Mantinæ,
						117.
					Mantis,
						121.
					Mantoida,
						128.
					Mecostethi,
						238.
					Mecostethus,
						238.
					Megaphasma,
						142.
					Melanopli
						320.
					Melanoplus,
						358.
						
							acidocereus,
								396.
							angustipennis,
								425.
							arboreus,
								452.
							atlanis,
								414.
							attenuatus,
								370.
							australis,
								370.
							bivittatus,
								446.
							borealis,
								422.
							bruneri,
								413.
							carnegiei,
								395.
							celatus,
								390.
							clypeatus,
								443.
							confusus,
								434.
							davisi,
								396.
							dawsoni,
								393.
							decoratus,
								379.
							decorus,
								369.
							devius,
								378.
							differentialis,
								440.
							divergens,
								390.
							fasciatus,
								400.
							femur-rubrum,
								419.
							flavidus,
								416.
							fluviatilis,
								431.
							furcatus,
								444.
							gracilis,
								362.
							hebardi,
								371.
							huroni,
								407.
							impiger,
								427.
							impudicus,
								417.
							islandicus,
								388.
							keeleri,
								436.
							luridus,
								437.
							mancus,
								387.
							mirus,
								385.
							morsel,
								376.
							nigrescens,
								402.
							nubilus,
								372.
							obvatipennis,
								374.
							packardii,
								429.
							pegasus,
								445.
							ponderosus,
								405.
							propinquus,
								421.
							puer,
								381.
							punctulatus,
								450.
							pygmæus,
								383.
							querneus,
								401.
							quercicola,
								397.
							rotundipennis,
								382.
							scapularis,
								384.
							scudderi,
								394.

							Page.
							stegocercus,
								384.
							stonei,
								432.
							strumosus,
								385.
							sylvestris,
								389.
							symmetricus,
								444.
							tepidus
								376.
							tribuloides,
								378.
							tribulus,
								377.
							viridipes,
								365.
							walshii,
								403.
						
					Mermiria,
						202.
					Mestobregma,
						290.
					Microcentrum,
						484.
					Miogryllus,
						693.
					Mogoplistinæ,
						662.
					Myrmecophila,
						659.
					Myrmecophilinæ,
						659.
					Nemobius,
						671.
						
							abottivus,
								676.
							ambitiosus,
								680.
							carolinus,
								685.
							confusus,
								687.
							cubensis,
								683.
							fasciatus,
								674.
							funeralis,
								679.
							griseus,
								678.
							maculatus,
								679.
							mormonius,
								684.
							palustris,
								684.
							socius,
								677.
							variegatus,
								682.
						
					Neoconocephalus,
						512.
						
							caudellianus,
								525.
							crepitans,
								524.
							ensiger,
								520.
							exiliscanorus,
								515.
							lyristes,
								518.
							melanorhinus,
								59.
							nebrascensis,
								517.
							palustris,
								526.
							retusus,
								528.
							robustus,
								522.
							triops,
								529.
							velox,
								527.
						
					Neotettix,
						171.
					Neoxabea,
						726.
					Nomotettix,
						56.
					Nyctobora,
						91.
					Nyctoborinæ,
						91.
					Oecanthinæ,
						709.
					Oecanthus,
						712.
						
							angustipennis,
								717.
							exclamationis,
								719.
							latipennis,
								725.
							nigricornis,
								719.
							niveus,
								714.
							pini,
								724.
							quadripunctatus,
								722.
						
					Oedipodinæ,
						243.
					Odontoxiphidium,
						584.
					Oligacanthopus,
						669.
					Oligonyx,
						126.
					Orchelimum,
						535.
						
							agile,
								539.
							bradleyi,
								561.
							bullatum,
								548.
							calcaratum,
								550.
							campestre,
								556.
							concinnum,
								554.
							delicatum,
								556.
							erythrocephalum,
								541.
							fidicinium,
								558.
							gladiator,
								545.
							minor,
								553.
							militare,
								559.
							nigripes,
								549.
							pulchellum,
								546.
							superbum,
								557.



							

							Page.
							volantum,
								559.
							vulgare,
								542.
						
					Orocharis,
						741.
					Orphuli,
						222.
					Orphulella,
						223.
					Oxyhaloinæ,
						111.
					Panchlorinæ,
						103.
					Panchlora,
						105.
					Panesthinæ,
						113.
					Paratenodera,
						122.
					Paratettix,
						175.
					Paratylotropidia,
						348.
					Parcoblatta,
						77.
						
							bolliana,
								80.
							caudelli,
								89.
							divisa,
								88.
							fulvescens,
								83.
							lata,
								84.
							pennsylvanica,
								86.
							uhleriana,
								81.
							virginica,
								82.
							zebra,
								85.
						
					Paroxya,
						349.
					Paxilla,
						179.
					Pedeticum,
						212.
					Periplaneta,
						98.
					Phaneropterinæ,
						458.
					Phasmidæ,
						130.
					Phibalosominæ,
						143.
					Phœtaliotes,
						356.
					Phrixa,
						493.
					Phylloscyrtus,
						736.
					Phyllovates,
						129.
					Plectoptera,
						112.
					Podisma,
						340.

					Page.
					Polyphaginæ,
						109.
					Prolabia,
						53.
					Pseudomopinæ,
						.66.
					Pseudophyllinæ,
						494.
					Pseudopomala,
						199.
					Psinidia,
						288.
					Pterophylla,
						495.
					Pycnoscelus,
						103.
					Pyrgocorypha,
						510.
					Radinotatum,
						195.
					Rhaphidophorinæ,
						606.
					Romalea,
						304.
					Romali,
						304.
					Saltatoria,
						148.
					Scapteriscus,
						649.
					Schistocerca,
						310.
						
							alutacea,
								314.
							americana,
								312.
							calidior,
								319.
							damnifica,
								318.
							obscura,
								317.
							rubiginosa,
								316.
						
					Scirtetica,
						283.
					Scudderia,
						462.
						
							cuneata,
								474.
							curvicauda,
								469.
							furcata,
								472.
							laticauda,
								471.
							pistillata,
								467.
							septentrionalis,
								464.
							strigata,
								471.
							texensis,
								465.
						
					Spandex,
						58.
					Spharagemon,
						275.
						
							bolli,
								276.

							Page.
							crepitans,
								278.
							planum,
								280.
							saxatile,
								279.
							wyomingianum,
								281.
						
					Spongovostox,
						58.
					Stagmomantis,
						117.
					Stenacris,
						309.
					Stilpnochlora,
						489.
					Supella,
						70.
					Symmetropleura,
						475.
					Symploce,
						90.
					Syrbula,
						208.
					Tafalisca,
						744.
					Tetrigidæ,
						149.
					Tetriginæ,
						155.
					Tettigidea,
						180.
					Tettigorinidæ,
						453.
					Thesprotia,
						127.
					Tridactylinæ,
						654.
					Tridactylus,
						655.
					Trigonidiinæ,
						728.
					Trimerotropi,
						286.
					Trimerotropis,
						292.
						
							acta,
								295.
							citrina,
								295.
							huroniana,
								298.
							maritima,
								293.
							saxatilis,
								297.
						
					Tryxalinæ,
						191.
					Tryxalini,
						194.
					Tryxalis,
						197.
					Turpilia,
						492.
					Udeopsylla,
						612.
					Vatinæ,
						129.
					Vostox,
						50.
				
				

			

			

				"Truth wears no mask; bows at no human shrine; seeks neither place nor applause; she only
					asks a hearing."


			

			
				(Date of publication of this volume, May 3, 1920.)
			





		

	
