
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Ball, T. H. (Timothy Horton), 1826-1913.. The Sunday schools of Lake. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2010).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAB8213
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		


			



			


			

			

				

					
						THE SUNDAY SCHOOLS
						OF LAKE.
					


					AN ACCOUNT OF THE COMMENCEMENT AND GROWTH OF
							THE SUNDAY SCHOOLS OF LAKE COUNTY, INDIANA, FROM ABOUT 1840 TO
						1890.

					

					A SEMI-CENTENNIAL VOLUME.

					

				


				
					"One soweth and another reapeth."
				

				

				
					T. H. BALL, Editor and Publisher for the Lake County S. S. Union.
					CROWN POINT, INDIANA.
					
					1891.
				

			

			

			

				

				COPYRIGHT, 1891,
				BY T. H. BALL.

				

				

					"Whoever occupies a station of moral influence--a station where his labor lies among
						the most perilous material with which man can intermeddle, the affections and
						dispositions and wills of other people--must have amazing self-reliance or deplorable
						callousness, if he is not frequently crushed down by the solemnity of his position."
					REV. JAMES HAMILTON.

				

			

			

				

				

				
					"By cool Siloam's shady rill
					How fair the lily grows!
					How sweet the breath, beneath the hill,
					Of Sharon's dewy rose!
				
				
					"Lo! such the child whose early feet
					In wisdom's ways have trod,
					Whose youthful heart, by influence sweet,
					Is upward drawn to God."
				

			


			

				

				Preface
				PERFECT history, including the events of many years, has not been
					written. Man does not in anything easily attain perfection.
				A good degree of accuracy may be attained in historical research; but written records,
					made at the time the events took place, may bear some traces of the imperfections of human
					observation, and the recollections of past events are liable to be more or less
					imperfect.
				I believe this book is the first of its kind in the State of Indiana, and have endeavored
					to make it as accurate and as near to perfection for such a work as the circumstances
					would permit. T. H. Ball.

			
		

		

			
				The Sunday Schools of Lake

				

				WEDNESDAY, August 27, 1890, the 25th Anniversary of the Lake County Sunday-school
					Convention, was observed as also the 50th Anniversary of Sunday- school work in Lake
					county. To the observance of this double anniversary this memorial volume owes its
					existence. The records in this volume were prepared for that occasion or arranged for this
					work on account of that occasion.
				The exercises of that day were held at the Fair Ground. The weather was all that could be
					desired for an out-of-door gathering. For the closing of August it was a perfect day. And
					as enjoying such a day in this grove, where the crowds gathered on three memorable days in
					1884; where some, whose memorials will be found on these pages, have enjoyed with many of
					us the basket dinners of past years; where children, who will meet here no more, have
					mingled their sweet young voices in prayer and praise; as though on this ground, with
					these associations, and in this presence of a large assembly, let the readers of these
					pages imagine themselves hearing on one long, delightful, August day, the story of our
					Sunday-school work for fifty years.

				

				After the devotional exercises of that morning the Secretary of the Convention, said:
				"Mr. President: As this year of 1890 is, according to our reckoning, the fiftieth year of
					our Sunday-school work, and as I seem to be left almost the only remaining member of the
					earliest schools organized in our county which have continued to this year and day, it
					seems appropriate for me to offer a few introductory words. We hold this year, for our
					twenty-fifth anniversary  exercises, a SEMI-CENTENNIAL
					celebration of the Sunday-school work in Lake county; and if any were present here of the
					Sunday-school poineers--so far as I know there is not one of them now living--I think they
					would be disposed to say, 'We came here into this beautiful and fertile region, not long
					after the Indian title to the land was extinguished, and before it could be owned by any
					individual white man, and we brought with us our Bibles and the Christian Sabbath, and our
					love for the spiritual welfare of others. And where those Indians had so lately worshiped
					the Great Spirit we gathered our children and our neighbors' children into schools on the
					first day of the week, and began to teach them the teachings of the Bible; and now, as
					fifty years are closing, there can be named and counted ninety schools that are or have
					been in this county of Lake organized by ourselves, our children, and our successors.
					Truly may it be said, in an ancient form of words, "What bath God wrought?"'"
				The Secretary coutinued:
				"Mr. President: As appropriate for such a celebration, quite largely,--I hope not too
					largely, for we all are interested, or ought to be inteested, in reviewing somtimes work
					that has been done by others,--quite largely the exercises for this day are to be
					historical and commemorative; and, if we may speak of our Sunday schools as bulwarks and
					towers, as we might call our churches palaces, we may use again to-day an ancient form of
					speech and say, 'Walk about Zion and go round about her; tell the towers thereof; work ye
					well her bulwarks, consider her palaces; that ye may tell it to the generation following.
					For this God is our God forever and ever; he will be our guide even unto death.'"
				This was the introduction to the exercises of the day.

				

				The singing of the day was by the Crown Point Methodist Episcopal school, the Crown Point
					Presbyterian, the Merrillville school, the Cedar Lake Union school, the Ross
					Congregational, the Lake Prairie Presbyterian, and the Dyer Union school.
				There was also a song by fifty girls, which will be given near the close of these records
					as here arranged for this bright summer day.

				

				

					I. INTRODUCTORY NOTES.

					Lake county occupies the northwestern corner of Indiana. The city of Chicago, which
						once was twelve miles from the State corner-stone on the shore of Lake Michigan, now
						extends for more than four miles along the west side of the county of Lake. The width of
						this county is sixteen miles, according to its sections. Lake Michigan, with its grand
						waves and its huge blocks of ice in spring time washes it on the north and gives it a
						beautiful beach of pure sand, with some magnificent sand hills, along which grow the
						native white pines. The Kankakee River forms its southern boundary, a river that, with
						its broad northern expanse of island grove-dotted marsh land, and with its many bayous,
						has been for more than fifty years almost inaccessible from the north to horsemen or to
						footmen. Between river and lake on the east side the distance is about twenty- eight
						miles. On the west side it is nearly thirty-seven miles. The entire surface area is
						about five hundred square miles.
					In 1832, the year of the Black Hawk War, the Indian title,except to some floats, was
						here extinguished,
					In 1834 permanent settlement here by pioneer families commenced. These settlers were
						called "squatters."


					

					In 1836, January 28th, by an act of the Indiana Legislature, the county, as a civil
						division, was formed out of then existing counties, Porter and Newton, and the infant
						county of Lake was attached to Porter in respect to civil jurisdiction.
					By another legislative act, January 18, 1837, it was declared that Lake should be an
						independent county after February 15, 1837.
					The land had been laid out into townships and sections by United States surveyors in
						1834.
					In 1839j, the land came "into market," and the United States land sale was opened at La
						Porte, March 19th of that year.
					In 1840, by a re-location, Crown Point became the county seat.
					Of the five hundred square miles of surface here, about one hundred are in the noted
						Calumet Region; and seventy-five are in the Kankakee Region, in that remarkable valley
						of lowland and sand ridges and island groves, of which in Indiana there are about five
						hundred square miles.

				

				

				

					II. SUNDAY-SCHOOL PIONEERS.

					Upon the newly surveyed government lands, before Lake county was formed, a very few
						families made claims, erected log-cabins, and became pioneer settlers in 1834. Other
						famiies came in 1835. And into the new county of 1836, and the organized, independent
						cunty of 1837, laying claim to some of the beautiful prairie and to, moreof the
						open.woodlads, mad any more families ame and established' home for their women and
						children, by building, with axe and hammer, their cabins, with stick and mud ohimneys,
						in the woodlands and in the groves. The open prairies, the home of  tens of thousands of pinnated grouse, where roamed the prairie wolves and fed
						the deer, remained tenantless. In a strip of woodland, some six miles south from the
						center of the county, named by one of the pioneers Pleasant Grove, a settlement was
						formed in 1835 by some Bryant families and there, and the locality for a few years was
						called. Bryant Settlement. Among these were E. Wayne Bryant, one of the early
						Methodists, and Elias Bryant, one of the earliest Presbyterians.
					In 1837 Ephraim Cleveland, a Methodist, settled in this grove, other Methodist families
						having already settled northward. Pleasant Grove therefore became an early church and,
						Sunday-school center. Here was organized, probably, the first Methodist class in the
						county. The date assigned by Mrs. S. G. Wood, who has studied the Methodist history of
						this county, is 1836. According to official authority, the Conference Minutes, which the
						writer of this had the privilege of examining at the home of Rev. W. J. Forbes, in
						Valparaiso, not long before his death, in 1834 Stephen R. Ball was stationed on the
						South Bend Circuit, and in that year there were no settlements, properly so called, and
						but few settlers in what became Lake county. In 1835 Deep River Mission was formed,
						Stephen Jones Missionary, and in the latter part of that year some small neighborhoods
						were found by him in this county. In 1836 Jacob Colclazer was Missionary.
					In 1837 Hawley B. Beers. (The Conference appointments, it should be borne in mind, do
						not begin with January and end with December; and also,men are appointed sometimes and
						the labor is performed by others. The Conference Minutes, therefore, and our own pioneer
						knowledge of the actual facts do not always seem to agree.)

					

					In 1838, Sameul K. Young was Missionary. Settlements had extended southward, and in
						1839 Kankakee Mission was formed, William, J. Forbes Missionary. On his entire field,
						taking more than Lake county, were then about one hundred members. The pioneers had
						come, but as yet no mention appears of Sunday schools.
					Near the southwest part of the up-land of the county, on West Creek, a little
						neighborhood was formed of Hathaway and Hayden families with some others, and here was
						another early Methodist center. Still another, a third, was in the eastern part of the
						county at Hickory Point.
					Another early church and Sunday-school center was at Orchard Grove, in the south part
						of the county, where Charles Kenney, who had been a Sunday-school man in Maine, near
						Augusta, and afterward near Bangor, made his home in January, 1838, with two sons and
						other members of his family, coming the whole distance from "down east" in Msine, in a
						wagon drawn by four horses.
					A family that would thus travel that distance, in the winter time, over the roads that
						then were or were not, would be expected to bring with them New England hardihood and
						enterprise, intelligence and religious principle. Well may such be numbered among our
						Sunday-school pioneers.
					In the summer of 1837 claims were made about five miles southwest of the center of they
						county, at Cedar Lake, on the west side, by Hervey Ball, of West Springfield,
						Massachusetts, on the southeast and south by Lewis Warriner and Norman Warriner, also
						natives of West Springfield, these being three of the Baptist pioneers of the county.
						These, in connection with the Church-and Cutler families, of Prairie West, two miles  north of Cedar Lake settlers from New York in 1836,
						commenced immediately to hold religious meetings. They united together as a church June
						17, 1838, Elder French, of Porter county, being present,and conducting the business
						exercises. This church was officially recognized by a "council" as the Cedar Lake
						Baptist church, May 19th, 1839. Norman Warriner. was soon ordained as pastor here. And
						here, so far as may now be known, was organized, was probably
						organized, the first Lake county Sunday school. (Other schools will assert their claims
						to this distinction, and by the readers all the claims should be fairly weighed.) Of
						this Cedar Lake school, Hervey Ball was superintendent. It was organized as a Union
						school, and a Union school for fifty years it has remained.
					As the history of these Baptist pioneers has been given in "The Lake of the Red
						Cedars," a volume of 357 pages, and as the history of their school will in this volume
						be given, no further mention need be made of them here. Whether their school should date
						1839 or 1840,cannot now be determined.
					Pasinig now to the center of the county, where the earliest settlement was made in 1834
						and 1835, by men not members of any church, Mrs. Fancher, wife of Richard Fancher, of
						Fancher's Lake, and Mrs. Harriet Warner Holton, both among the settlers of 1835, were
						the first Presbyterian pioneer women. Mrs. Holton was a widow coming here with two sons,
						known as Warner and William, and one daughter. She was born in Massachusetts, January
						15, 1783. In some respects she was the most remarkable woman ever a resident in Lake
						county. In addition to these two, there came in 1836 Mrs. Eddy, the first wife of
						Russell Eddy, with one son and two daughters. She was than a Baptist from Troy, New
						York, but soon became a Presbyterian,  and one of the most
						active members of the Presbyterian church when that church was at length organized. To
						her the credit probably belongs of giving Bible instruction to children before any
						others had commenced this work in the county. Her husband, who outlived her for many
						years, stated that she gathered her own children and those of her brother, Henry Wells,
						and some other children, into her room at some hour on Sunday, and together they read
						and studied the Scriptures. This was in 1838, or possibly in 1837. But this gathering
						was not called a Sunday school, and no formal school was opened in the hamlet days of
						"Lake Court House," Soon, however, a shepherd came. Rev. J. C. Brown, Prebyterian pastor
						at Valparaiso, came into Lake county in January, 1840; preached at Cedar Lake (then,
						probably, the most prominent religious center in the county, where the first Baptist,
						Presbyterian, and Lutheran sermons were preached); found Elias Bryant, at Pleasant
						Grove, Mrs. Woodruff at Orchard Grove, the Woodbridge and Humphrey families from New
						England, on Eagle Creek Prairie; found Mrs. Fancher, Mrs. Holton, and Mrs. Eddy, and
						commenced meetings in the "Old Log Court House." This building, erected by the
						enterprise of Solon Robinson and others, in 1837, became not only the county
						court-bouse, but was church and lecture hall for the village and county for ten or more
						years.
					Here Elder Warriner, of Cedar Lake, who became a resident of Crown Point, and Mr.
						Brown, both or whom began to preach regularly in the audience room, with the Baptist
						pioneers of Cedar Lake, and the Presbyterian women who have been mentioned, organized
						and carried on the Crown Point Union Sunday school, whether in 1840 or 1841 can not now
						with certainty be determined. Mrs. Strait, of Chicago, formerly Miss Josephine Robinson,
							 daughter of Solon Robinson, then a child and a member of
						Mrs. Eddy's class in that school, can not with certainty place the school earlier that
						1841. Mrs. Susan Clark, a niece of Mrs. Eddy, also a member of that school, can give no
						date with certainty. Three of us remain who were children in that school then. The
						teachers, the officers, the founders, have passed away, and written records are not to
						be found. One early member of the Presbyterian church remains, known for these many
						years as Deacon Mason, seventy-nine years of age, and he attributes largely the
						organization of the school to Elder Warriner, the first resident minister in Crown
						Point, but cannot give a certain date. Early in 1843, Elder Warriner removed to
						Illinois, and in the spring of that year, Rev. M. Allman came from Michigan, and became
						a resident in Crown Point. He was a Methodist, English by birth and training; "a local
						preacher of more than ordinary ability;" and he, for a time, took part in this Union
						school.
					The fifty years' history of this school will be given in its place by one of its
						present active members.
					The third school to be noticed here, it may possibly have been the first in the county,
						was in that growing neighborhood of Pleasant Grove. As some are yet living who were
						interested here, and as illustrating the difficulty in determining, among seven pioneer
						schools, which was in reality first, the date of organization of not one of the seven
						having been found, the full evidence in regard to this school will be presented. Ephraim
						Ceveland, who died in 1845, was the first, and until his death, the only superintendent.
						His son, T. Cleveland, a lawyer of Crown Point, thinks the school was organized in 1842
						or 1843. E. W. Bryant, an active Methodist, who settled here in 1835, has been already
						named. His daughter, Mrs. Maria McCarty,  now of Indianola,
						Iowa, thinks the school was organized in 1840 with Ephraim Cleveand as Superintendent.
						She says that "he and her father, Mrs. Cleveland, Mrs. Bryant and two others" were the
						teachers. Mr. B. Bryant,a son of E. W. Bryant, writes, that in the summer of 1835 John
						Kitchel arranged with E. W. Bryant for the two families to meet in the home of the
						latter "every Sabbath and read the Scriptures and have something like a Sunday school."
						Referring to this his sister, Mrs. McCarty, writes: "I do not think there was any
						organization at that time."--Young readers may be reminded that the question now under
						consideration is connected largely with the memory of children. These living and giving
						testimony now were quite young children then.--Now, according to the Claim Register, the
						oldest documentary evidence in Lake county concerning its early settlers, E. W. Bryant
						came here as a settler in 1835, but the evidence from that Register is that John Kitchel
						came in 1836. But Mr. Bryant further says, that the first regularly organized Sunday
						school, according to the best of his recollection, was held in the house of Ephraim
						Cleveland. He says, "This was, I think, in 1837." But he adds, "It was the summer
						following the fall that Mr. Cleveland came to Lake county." There is no conflict of
						testimony, it is perfectly established that the Cleveland family came in 1837. Mr.
						Bryant's last statement, therefore, will place the organization of the Pleasant Grove
						school in 1838. Here, again, Mrs. McCarty says, "When the Sunday school was organized I
						think there were fifteen or twenty scholars and perhaps five or six teachers." To this
						date of 1838 there appears one objection. That summer was one of "severe drouth and
						great sickness." In proportion to the number of inhabitants it was a summer of many
						deaths. "The summers of 1838 and 1846 are  the two most
						noted for sickness in the annals of Lake." At Cedar Lake, where there was quite a strong
						church organization, the record for the summer of 1838 says, "From continued distressing
						sickness, no meetings were held until the latter part of winter." This is after a record
						of meetings for five Sabbaths. And this sicknes was very general in all the
						neighborhoods and settlements. Judging from the fact of that prevailing sickness, which
						some of us yet living remember well, it would almost seem that the Pleasant Grove school
						could not have been earlier than 1839.
					The fourth to be noticed, among these seven schools, was at West Creek, where the
						Hathaway and Hayden families settled. A Methodist church building was erected here in
						1843, and in this building, probably in the same year, a school was organized. Peter
						Hathaway had three sons, Silas, Abram, and Bethuel. Of Silas it is said, "He was a good
						man, a useful citizen, a beautiful singer;" and as a singer he would surely find a place
						in the school. His father, probably his brothers also, took an active part in the
						school. Others who are named as active members by almost the only survivor of these
						early settlers, Mrs. Spalding, were, John Fisher and wife, Cooper Brooks and wife, Lyman
						Foster and wife, A. D. Foster, and Mrs. Hayden, wife of Nehemiah Hayden, one of those
						early settlers; also Andrew Moore. The Superintendent was Adam Hamilton, called "Father
						Hamilton," and he seems to have continued in office most of the time till he removed to
						Momence. He at length removed over the river, and then passed over the viewless river.
						He was evidently another of those good and useful men whose names as pioneer, church,
						and school workers should be kept by their descendants in lasting remembrance.
					The fifth of these schools was at Hickory Point,  where a
						Methodist church building was erected about 1844. The facts gleaned in regard to this
						school will be elsewhere given. In that neighborhood great changes have taken place. It
						does not look like a church center now.
					The sixth of these seven schools recognized as our earliest organizations, is the
						school at Orchard Grove. Charles Kenney, the Sunday-school worker from Maine, opened a
						school in his house, with eight or nine children as the scholars, about 1842. He also
						conducted a school in the log school-house at Plum Grove about the same time, but that
						school was not kept up. The one commenced in the Kenney home is the present Orchard
						Grove school.
					The last of these pioneer schools to be here named was organized at Southeast Grove, by
						Orlando V. Servis, perhaps in 1839, perhaps in 1840. Among the Grove Schools its history
						will be given.
					There are found, then, thus far, as the family names of our Sunday-school pioneers,
						men, women, and children, among the Methodists, Bryant, Cleveland, Hathaway, Hayden,
						Hamilton, Allman, Servis, Kenney; among the Presbyterians, Holton, Fancher, Eddy,
						Humphrey, Woodbridge, Bryant; among the Baptists, Warriner, Church, Cutler, Ball. Of the
						Methodists there were probably others whose names in other conncctions will be found,
						and especially the name of Rev. Robert Hyde, a local preacher, if not an appointed
						missionary, active and young in 1839, who lived in this county several years and died in
						Chicago in 1883.




					

					

						CENTER PRAIRIE.

						One of our early schools, commenced perhaps as early as 1842, was held at the home
							place of William W.  Paine. Here was for a few years a
							place for regular Methodist preaching. A class was organized, of which W. W. Paine was
							leader. Of the school J. Foley was Superintendent. This locality is a little more than
							two miles south and west from Crown Point, on the road to Creston and Cedar Lake. The
							school was not in existence long, as all those early families soon removed from the
							county. At this school took place an instructive incident. The lesson for the day was
							in Acts, chapter 23. They had reached verse 23, where mention is made of two hundred
							soldiers, of three score and ten horsen, and of "spearmen two hundred," and about the
							latter, which they called sparemen, they began to talk. Some wondered if these were
							men they had to spare, so were sending them away, or perhaps they were thin, lean,
							spare men. At length, the Superintendent himself is credited with asking, "What does s
							p e a r spell, anyhow?" Apd some one suggested the ordinary pronunciation, spear. They were of a class that knew well what spears were, and in an
							instant the meaning of the whole verse was clear. This school was composed mainly of
							those whom the settlers from the East called hoosiers. Their school advantages had
							been few. The instruction is this: If a knowledge of the English alphabet and of the
							proper pronunciation of common words is needful to enable Sunday-school teachers and
							scholars to understand the meaning of the English Scriptures, may not yet more
							knowledge be desirable and needful? May it not be desirable to gain a fair knowledge
							of the ordinary laws of language, of the general principles of interpretation, even of
							Orientalisms, of poetic, of rhetorical figures, of the deeper principles involved in
							the structure of language? To state the deeper, underlying principle on which many now
							profess to rely, is it safe to expect the Holy Spirit to 
							teach one and to guide one, in reading the Scriptures, in respect to those things
							ordinarily taught in the schools? Ought not all Sunday-school teachers to learn, or
							try to learn, how to read well, how to pronounce words correctly, and to gain all the
							knowledge practicable from the ordinary lesson helps? Can one become too intelligent
							for obtaining and explaining correctly the meaning of the Scripture? The members of
							the Center Prairie school were zealous, they were in earnest. Their devotion and their
							earnestness entitled them to large respect. They would have welcomed gladly the
							"helps" of our day. They improved their opportunities for gaining more knowledge.
							Their leaders have a right to a place among our pioneers.

					

				

				

				

					III. THE PRESBYTERIAN SCHOOL OF CROWN POINT.

					A FIFTY YEARS' RECORD. BY MRS. J. FISHER.

					Fifty,years ago Elder Norman Warriner, a Baptist clergyman; J. C. Brown, a Presbyterian
						minister;. Mrs. Russel Eddy, Mrs. Richard Fancher, Mrs. H. Holton, and Miss Harriet
						Holton, elect women, moved by a desire to serve the Master and save perishing souls, met
						in the old log court house in Crown Point, and organized the first Sunday school ip the
						county, in 1840. It was a Union school in which Baptists, Methodists, and Presbyterians
						labored together for the Lord, the ministers superintending when present, and Mrs. Eddy
						in their absence. The Cutler and Church families of Western Prairie and the Ball family
						of Cedar Lake also attended. In 1843 the Methodists, under the leadership of Rev. Major
						Allman, withdrew and formed a school of their own. The Baptists and Presbyterians
						continued the school until 1846, when the Presbyterians, under the pastorate of the Rev.
						William Townley, having built a  new church, left the court
						house, retained the name of Union till about 1856 (and then continued as a Presbyterian
						school), superintended by the pastor, who remained ten years.
					In 1859 J. L. Lower was installed as pastor of the church. He was an earnest worker in
						the Sunday school, and, being a fine musician, did much to improve it. He was ably
						assisted by Mrs. Sarah Robinson, a loving worker for the little ones; Rev. John Binney,
						a Baptist minister who took a deep interest in Sunday- school work, and Miss Mary E.
						Parsons, principal of a young ladies' school, a devoted Christian woman of high culture
						and strong influence, of whom the church record of a revival in 1860 says: "A remarkable
						fact respecting this revival is that nearly all who came forward are or have been pupils
						of Miss Parsons' school."
					The school was usually superintended by the pastors. Mrs. Almon Foster was
						Superintendent in 1865 or near that time.
					In later years Mr. Charles F. Griffin was for ten years our efficient and beloved
						Superintendent, laboring faithfully for the upbuilding and advancement of the school,
						only resigning when called to serve the State as Secretary. He was followed by Professor
						Voorhees, principal of the public school, who was succeeded in 1889 by our pastor, Rev.
						L. W. A. Luckey, under whose fostering, prayerful care the school is gaining in numbers
						and, we trust, in spirituality.
					For many years Mrs. N. C. Cornell did excellent work both as organist and teacher,
						first of a boys' class and then of the young ladies' class.
					From 30 pupils in 1861, 35 in 1863, 40 in 1865, the school now numbers 103 pupils and
						10 teachers. For several years we have had a birthday box in which teachers and scholars
						deposit as many pennies as they  are years old, which is
						sent to aid the Sunday-school work in needy portions of the country. We have also taken
						a collection for this work Children's Day, and for two years the school has sent a
						Christmas offering to the Waifs' Mission, in which all have joined, even the infant
						class. What are the results of this work? Only the Master can tell. Of its pupils one,
						Mrs. Annie Turner Morgan, spent eight years in India as a Baptist missionary. Two are
						leading ministers of the Gospel: Henry Johnson, D. D., pastor of a large Presbyterian
						Church in South Bend, a man of culture, piety, and wide influence; and Edwin A. Schell,
						a prominent Methodist minister now in Yonkers, N. Y. Hon. Charles F. Griffin was
						associated with the school as scholar and superintendent many years, and many others
						who, though not so prominent, are doing good work in the Lord's vineyard.
					The additions to the church membership have come largely from the Sunday school. Of one
						class of young ladies (Mrs. Ainsworth's) all but one united with our church, and she
						with the Episcopal. So we labor in hope, knowing that God will bless us if we do our
						work faithfully. Of those who first organized the school not one remains. All have gone
						to their reward, and their works do follow them.

					

					

						MRS. HARRIET WARNER HOLTON. It is fitting that somewhere, amid the records of Lake county,
							should be found more than a passing notice of one, who, fifty-five years ago, then in
							middle life, came with a little band of pioneer settlers into this almost unbroken
							solitude.
						As authority for reviewing,, even briefly, such a life as was hers, I might refer to
							the Scripture narrative, as given by Mark, of that woman who anointed the Saviour of
							the world before he suffered, and of  whom he said: "She
							hath done what she could." Of her a record was made to go down through all the coming
							time. Of other women since that day, following the example, not only of the New
							Testament, but also of records in the Old Testament, memorials have been preserved of
							their virtues, and trials, and good deeds, by those who had no special guidance to
							teach them what to say, and what to leave unsaid; and these memorials form choice
							portions of the wealth of biographic literature. The example and the lessons of a long
							life may have for us and others a permanent value. The teaching which I would
							interweave in this brief review may be drawn from the record given us by John
							concerning Mary of Bethany, who, in Bethany, anointed the Saviour's feet with a pound
							of very costly ointment. Surely, it was this same Mary, who is mentioned by Mark, who
							was in Simon's house, and who anointed also the Saviour's head. The teaching is this:
							That relationship to Jesus of Nazareth in heart, in life, in good deeds, forms the
							choicest and most imperishable memorial that can immortalize a woman. Station, wealth,
							power, beauty, talent, may cause names to live long in time's annals; but if a woman's
							name is not written in the Lamb's Book of Life, the time is coming when it must sink
							into darkness, if not into oblivion, forever.
						It may not be possible, as an actual fact, for any member of the human race to pass
							into absolute forgetfulness; for, in the unending ages of the existence before us, in
							that mighty future which we sometimes call eternity, there may be recalled, in perfect
							memories, one by one, an image and a thought of every loved and lost one of all this
							unnumbered race. As to this I know not; but I have a right to be sure, whatever comes,
							whatever yet may be, that the Life Book names  will shine
							in resplendent glory in the great kingdom of the future.
						HARRIET WARNER, daughter of General Warner, was born in Hardwick, Massachusetts,
							January 15, 1783. It was that eventful year which witnessed the closing scenes of the
							American Revolution; the year in which, on the historic 19th of April, the cessation
							of hostilities was proclaimed in the American Army; in which, on September 3d, the
							treaty of peace was signed at Paris; and in which, the army disbanding November 3d,
							Washington, taking leave of his officers at New York, resigned to the Congress at
							Annapolis his comiission as Oommander-in-Chief, December 23d, and retired to Mount
							Vernon.
						Commencing her infant existence before any of these events, Harriet Warner, who
							became Mrs. Holton, remained among us as one of the very few connecting those times
							with our own until the autumn of 1879.
						Of the incidents of her childhood and youth almost nothing is now known. She had two
							brothers, William Augustus Warner, years ago a wealthy citizen of Massaehusetts, and
							Jonathan Warner, a business man of Boston. She had seven sisters. Miss Harriet Warner
							commenced active life as a New England teacher in Westminster. She there became
							acquainted, with a young law student, Alexander Holton, to whom she was married about
							the year 1804. In 1816 the young Holton family left the comfort and cultivation of New
							England for the Western wilds. It was the year in which Indiana became a State: Among
							the Seneca Indians, in Big Valley, whose chief was called Corn Planter, who were
							engaged in January, 1817, in making maple sugar, the migrating party spent two weeks.
							Then they continued their route through the woods to the Alleghany river. Fifteen
							miles back from the  river sugar-making was again carried
							on. Along the bank of the river cabins were built for a brief sojourn; but in March
							they moved down to Vevay, Indiana, laid out as a town in 1813, and there settled in
							1817. A law office was there opened, and among the law students in that office were
							John Dumond and Samuel Merrill, the latter of whom was afterwards a citizen of
							Indianapolis. Perhaps wealth did not rapidly accumulate, for in 1820 the Holton family
							removed to Vernon, in Jennings county, where Mrs. Holton resumed for a time, her early
							occupation of teaching. Here, in 1823, her husband, the lawyer, died, having then five
							law students in his office, leaving Mrs. Holton with two sons and one daughter, and
							with no large accumulation of property. Here for eleven more years the family
							remained. The sons had reached manhood, the one daughter had become a woman. Then,
							through Solon Robinson, who left Jennings county and found the wild, inviting,
							attractive region that became Lake county, in October of 1834, tidings came to them
							that a fine opening for enterprise and for securing new homes in a fertile, prairie
							region, was then waiting for adventurers; and with little delay, even in midwinter,
							joining William Clark and family, Mrs. Holton, with her daughter and son, W. A. W.
							Holton, set out from Jennnings county for the northwestern corner of Indiana.
							Something of the hardship and suffering of that February journey, in wagons drawn by
							oxen, may be found recorded in "Lake County, 1872," pages 27 and 28. That month of
							February, 1835, was, as a winter month unusually severe; it was no sugar-making month,
							like the January of 1817; and that they actually crossed the Kankakee Marsh Region
							with their ox teams, and came up into the southwestern part of this Lake county, amid
							the cold, fierce, freezing winds of that February, is remarkable.

						

						The Holton family, the other son, J. W. Holton, with his wife and two little
							children, arriving a few days after the others, settled where is now Crown Point,
							making the third family for the little hamlet.
						 Here, once more, Mrs. Holton, then fifty-three years of age, resumed the occupation
							of her early life, and became the first teacher in Lake county. She taught through the
							winter of 1835 and 1836. From this time until thie infirmities of age came on, Mrs.
							Holton was active in doing whatever her hands found to do.
						About 1840, perhaps a little earlier, or a little later, she made a visit to New
							England, at the time of her mother's death. That mother was about ninety-four years of
							age. Then, at Enfield, once more the eight sisters met. These were: Mrs. Robinson,
							wife of the wealthy Governor of Vermont; Mrs. Stuart, wife of Judge Stuart, of
							Vermont, a man of wealth as well as of position; Mrs. Bradley, wife of a Vermont
							lawyer; Mrs. Brown, wife of a Massachusetts lawyer; Mrs. Hitchcock, wife of another
							Massachusetts lawyer; Mrs. Jones, whose husband was a fine penman, a copyist before
							the days of type-writing; Miss Warner, who never married; and Mrs. Holton, the pioneer
							woman at Vevay, the pioneer woman at Crown Point, a widow then, and the earliest
							teacher of children in Lake county; worthy to hold a sister's place among women of
							wealth and social position in cultivated New England. These eight sisters were all
							members of the Presbyterian church; and all died of old age, two of them while sitting
							in their chairs.
						After the return of Mrs. Holton to Crown Point, after the organization of the Union
							school in the log court house, after the organization of the Presbyterian church at
							Crown Point in 1844, and of the completion of the church building in 1847, she still
							remained an active and  a useful woman. As the years
							passed and changes came, her home was transferred from Crown Point to the farm- home
							of her son, J. W. Holton, usually called Warner, some four miles northeastward from
							Crown Point on Deep River. Here there was but little for her to do except to engage in
							household duties. The infirmities of age came creeping on. A letter from Capt.
							Woodbury, a neighbor, written before March, 1878, says: "My acquaintance with Mrs.
							Holton commenced about twenty years ago or over, perhaps twenty-four years. She then
							would walk from her son Warner's to my house, two miles, with apparent comfort. She
							being a special favorite with my wife it was a great pleasure to have her visit us.
							What made it more interesting, she having a retentive memory and a well stored mind,
							all her natural faculties improved, she could converse on any topic; and as I had
							plowed the sea most of my life she was fond of inquiring of different parts of the Old
							World. Indeed, it was a great pleasure to converse with one that could go so far back
							in the past. She was specially fond of vocal music, of course the tunes of her younger
							days. My wife and myself would sing for hours for her. As she had at that time lost
							her voice I asked her if she regretted losing her voice. She said, 'No. I can hum it
							over in my mind and it sounds to me as well as it ever did.' When we would urge her to
							partake of a more hearty meal, she would reply that 'eating was like conversation. You
							could have too much to be digestible.' In 1864 was the last time she visited us. We
							have been several times to see her." Mentioning a visit in August, 1875, the letter
							continues: "She had lost her sight and was hard of hearing. Her son, William, asked
							her if she knew different neighbors, naming them. She replied, 'Yes;' then correcting
							herself said, 'No, I guess not.' He then asked her if 
							she knew Mr. Woodbury. 'Yes; I guess I do,' was the quick reply. 'Where is he? I must
							see him, Oh, dear! I can not see you either. Give me your hand.' * * * 'On that
							blissful shore we shall see each other there, where this mortal body shall put on
							immortal bloom. I shall see you there.'" There is to the letter a postscript, 1878,
							March 23d. The last visit. "Her daughter-in-law asked her if she remembered Mr.
							Woodbury. 'I guess I do. Where is he? Give me your hand. I want to see you. Oh, I
							shall never see you in this world again. Oh, I am so impatient to go; but the Lord
							does all things well. We shall meet in the other world, and we shall know each other
							there."'
						This is the last recorded interview. Mrs. Holton died October 17, 1879, almost
							ninety-seven years of age. As the burial procession came in sight of Crown Point from
							the Deep River home where she died, the then new court-house bell was tolled; the
							first and the last time its deep tones have been heard at any of our burial
							processions. A fitting tribute it was on that day, as it announced the fact that the
							mortal remains of no ordinary woman were nearing the place of burial. Such a woman, in
							such a long life, the daughter of an army leader, with her native intelligence, her
							New England training, her granitelike, Presbyterian principle, her devotion, her
							meekness, her love, must in various ways have accomplished no little good. And I am
							glad that among our Sunday-school pioneers, in this county of Lake, we may record the
							name of HARRIET WARNER HOLTON.
					

				

				

				

					IV. FIFTY YEARS AROUND CEDAR LAKE.

					The date of the organization of the Cedar Lake Union Sunday school has not been exactly
						ascertained. The shadow of obscurity and of uncertainty that covers  so many events in the far distant and mighty past comes very near, sometimes,
						to this present in which we live. In an early Lake county diary has been found the exact
						date of the opening of one of our earlier schools. Diaries are not very generally kept
						by children, and the date of many an event that may sometimes be of interest is left
						solely to a fading or an overburdened memory. Annalists become therefore useful in a
						community. Well said a writer in the Sunday School Times, "The collection and
						preservation of perishable memorials of local antiquarian history is one of the most
						praiseworthy of literary tasks." To rescue what can yet be saved from oblivion of our
						earliest Sunday-school work in this county is one of the objects proposed for this
						anniversary.
					A few only are now living who, as children, true pioneer children, living here in those
						interesting years of frontier life before 1840, were present at the first singing, and
						first prayer, and first reading of the Scriptures when was organized the Cedar Lake
						Sunday School. This may have been in 1839. It may have been in 1840. And, in view of the
						probabilities, so far as the circumstances can be recalled, this is the date of
						organization that is claimed. Considering also the various circumstances, it is assumed
						that this school was the first of the pioneer schools of the county. It was organized on
						the northwest side of Cedar Lake, at the home of Hervey Ball, who was the first
						Superintendent, and who continued to be superintendent through most of the years until
						1867. The school was continued in the same locality (the large log school house, built
						in 1838, being occupied as church and Sunday-school rom) until 1849 or 1850, when the
						school house southeast of the lake, near the home of Mr. Horace Edgerton, became the
						place for Sabbath preaching and for Sunday  school. In the
						ten years of school life on the west side much good had been accomplished through the
						faithful teaching of the Scripture. Not long after the organization of the school a
						visitor came in, who seemed to enjoy the exercises, and who was evidently interested in
						the frontier Sunday-school work. Soon after his return to his New England home a gift of
						library books came to Cedar Lake from a school in Massachusetts. Afterwards funds were
						raised and a well selected library was obtained from the American Sunday-School Union.
						One of the Ball family became school librarian. (According to the memory of one member
						of this family, Mrs. E. H. Woodard, of Grove Hill, Ala., born in 1829 in these books was
						written "Cedar Lake Union S. S., 1840." If this recollection is correct--no book can now
						be found to verify it--the school must have been organized in 1839. The reader has
						already been reminded that in regard to many facts connected with our pioneer schools
						the only dependence is the memory of childhood). These books were diligently read, and
						for many years carefully kept. Several of the members of the school became church
						members, and one remarkable instance of conversion took place apparently in connection
						with one Sunday-school lesson. (Lake of Red Cedars, page 68.)
					In the new locality the school continued to prosper. Within five years, from January,
						1850, to April, 1855, some twenty-two members of the school became members of the Cedar
						Lake Baptist church. Thee twenty- two were:
					Enoch S. McCarty, Daniel Davis, Polly Jane Edgerton, Calvin Taylor, Judson Cutler, Lucy
						Taylor, Esther Edgerton, Martha Cutler, Jonathan McCarty, Heman Ball, Elisabeth
						Vinnedge, Laura Thompson, Alvin Taylor, Mary Jane Ball, Catherine Scritchfield,  Jane Scritchfield, Susan Davis, Nancy Ann Scritchfield,
						Sophia Palmer, Catherine Taylor, Amy Mann, and Henrietta Ball. Some of these are not
						living now, and some are still active Christian workers in this busy world. That Cedar
						Lake church disbanded January 17, 1856, but the Union Sunday school continued. It seems
						to have had the "grace of continuance."
					A new school house was erected a half mile further south, and to this, as its place of
						meeting, the school was removed. The west side ibrary went along with the school. At
						this, its third locality, the following persons were superintendents: Mr. Pratt, 1868;
						Philander Cross, 1869; Samuel Love, 1870-74; Elsie Palmer, 1875; Mrs. B. Stuppy,
						1876.
					Hervey Ball, then known as Judge Ball, died in 1868, having been for more than
						twenty-five years a Sunday-school superintendent, and surely one of the earliest in the
						county. Ephraim Cleveland; of Pleasant Grove, who died in 1845, and O. V. Servis, of
						South East Grove, who also died many years ago, share with him the honor of having been
						our earliest pioneer superintendents; and it seems impossible to determine now in which
						of four localities, whether at Pleasant Grove, at South East Grove; at Cedar Lake, or in
						the log court house, was really opened the FIRST SUNDAY
						SCHOOL.
					When the church building at Creston was ready for use, in 1876, the locality of the
						Cedar Lake school again changed. Superintendents at the church building since 1876:
						Victor Gear, 1876; Reuben C. Wood, 1877-1880; Aleck Scritchfield, 1881; Alfred Edgerton,
						1882; O. G. Taylor, 1883; M. A. Nichols, 1884; J. E. Love, 1885; Mrs. J. Hill, 1886;
						George Edgerton, 1887; Edward Stonix, 1888; B. F. Cross, 1889, 1890; George Taylor,
						1890.

					

					The school had shown its ability, in accordance with the impulse and tendency given it
						by its founders, to remain undenominational for some sixteen years in,connection with a
						living and growing Baptist church. For twenty years it lived without any church life
						near it. And that same ability it has possessed for now fourteen years in connection
						with the Methodist church at Creston. Its members work in harmony with the church; but
						in electing its officers, in carrying on its affairs, it is independent of church
						action.
					Through the first ten years of its existence this school was at the religious center of
						a community living on Prairie West, on the west side of West Creek, and on the east of
						Cedar Lake. Some came in wagons, some on horseback, some crossed the lake in boats.
						Sabbath boat rides were taken in those days by members of that community, but not for
						pleasure. They were going to the place of meeting or returning to their homes; and some
						of the children were reminded of the boat rides and the fishing, in the Saviour's time,
						on that noted lake in the Holy Land. Those who carried on the school had been accustomed
						to Sunday schools in other and older settled States. Of the helps used in those days,
						question books, commentaries, Bible dictionary, there was no lack. The teachers had
						shared largely in literary and religious training. The best Sunday-school books
						published were read by the children. It was a New England school of those days
						transplanted into the new, wild West.
					In its second locality it was still attended by those on the west side, and it became
						here a very important agency in the training of quite a group of enterprising young
						people.
					Among its members now are children and grandchildren of those who were members in the
						earlier years.  Inheritors of the traditions, although not
						of the pleasant associations of the past, may many of these live to reach our hundredth
						year.
					The following belongs to the later records of this school:

					

					

						"A RECORD."

						Every year, month, and day, has its joys and also its sorrows. The Cedar Lake Union
							Sunday school, one of the oldest in the county of Lake, has lately lost one more of
							its members--a pupil in the years of her childhood and youth, a teacher in her early
							womanhood. Miss E. JENNIE TAYLOR, on the last
							day of the past year, on Tuesday morning, Dec. 31, 1889, passed from the confines of
							time; passed from her Creston home to the great home of the redeemed. Her grandmother,
							Mrs. Lucy Taylor, a woman of more than ordinary endowments of person and mind, was a
							pioneer settler at Cedar Lake in 1836, and died Dec. 10, 1869, 77 years of age; her
							mother, a pioneer child, a winsome Cedar Lake girl in 1840, now Mrs. Julia A. Taylor
							of Creston, is still living with her husband, O. G. Taylor, in their village home; but
							from out that home, ESTHER JENNIE, born May 11,
							1868, like her grandmother and mother, a Christian, a church member, winsome in her
							social relations, pleasant in her home as a daughter and sister, has passed into the
							relations of another and to us a viewless life. She dwells among those that are unseen
							by mortal eye. Six sisters and three brothers went forth into homes of their own, and
							their little children, growing up around them, are, many of them, members of the Cedar
							Lake Sunday school.
						A few only of the early members of that school are now living, but the little
							children come trooping in. So broken ranks are more than filled. Although in " failing health for the last year, even for the last three
							years, sister JENNIE attended at Crown Point the last county
							Sunday-school convention, the meeting of the Old, Settlers' Association, the county
							fair, and the Grand Army encampment at Lowell, riding out and meeting her friends so
							long as strength would permit. On Thanksgiving day she was out of the house and played
							once more upon her organ. She knew she was soon to leave this earth. She made what
							arrangements she wished to make, and, patient, resigned, hopeful, trustful, as became
							a Christian girl who had just entered womanhood, conscious to the last and true in her
							kindred and church relations, she fell asleep in Jesus.

						
							
								"Asleep in Jesus! blessed sleep,
								From which none ever wakes to weep."
							
						

						

						Belonging to the fifty years of teaching the children around Cedar Lake there should
							not be omitted a record of the RED CEDAR SCHOOL. This was held at the Binyon school house on the east side,
							nearer to the lake shore than any other school, not far away from Cedar Point, and
							fittingly it bore the name of Red Cedar. It was probably first commenced by Andrew S.
							Cutler, now Dr. Cutler, of Kankakee, and his first wife, an active, energetic,
							Christian woman, who died in 1865. This school was carried on by these two young and
							zealous workers, in 1864.
						It was re-opened by T. H. Ball and Mrs. M. K. Hill, with others, in 1884. Cedar Lake
							had now become a great pleasure resort, yet a very interesting school was for a time
							kept up here, and.many children and young people received the precious, life-giving
							teachings of the Scriptures.
						Changes among the families soon took place, and it was impracticable longer to
							continue the school or any  religious services at the Red
							Cedar school home. Mrs. Hill found other Sunday-school work to do at Oak Grove, where
							her short life soon closed. The Red Cedar school, like several others that have been
							in our county, belongs now only to the past.

					

					

				

				

					V. PLEASANT GROVE.

					Under the heading of "Sunday-School Pioneers" seven schools were named as having been
						organized somewhere between 1838 and 1843. A certain date was found for none. Assuming
						1840, or, according to the recollections of Mr. B. Bryant, then a boy about ten years of
						age, 1839 or 1838, as the date of organization for Pleasant Grove, it remains now to
						place on record what further facts have been found concerning this early school. It is
						placed beyond question that Ephraim Cleveland was the first superintendent and that he
						continued in office until his death in 1845. E. W. Bryant was his successor and the
						school was still at the Cleveland house. It is in the personal knowledge of the writer
						that in 1847 William Pleasant McCarty, then a young public school teacher and Methodist
						church member, was Superintendent. The following is a diary record: "September 26, 1847.
						Went to Pleasant Grove in the morning. Delivered an address to the Sunday school."
						"After the school attended a prayer meeting. Most all were young. Quite interesting."
						That address, as delivered, written out in full, now lies on this manuscript copy. It
						was, perhaps--that word is very needful in the statements which these
						researches authorize --the first address to a Sunday school written in this county.
						Another diary record is, date October 11th: "Yesterday went down to the Pleasant Grove
						Sunday school again. A person was expected to address the school, as it was then to
						close, but he did not come."  So the diary writer gave an
						unwritten address. The closing referred to in the diary record was probably in order to
						ga into winter quarters. Evergreen schools in Indiana were not so common then as now.
						Echo says, not too common now.
					In this summer of 1847 the school was held in the Grove school house, and when removed,
						either in the spring or in 1846, it had been reorganized by Rev. Robert Hyde, the then
						young Methodist preacher of the county. Who succeeded W. P. McCarty is not known. Rev.
						G. W. Taylor was then living near the school house in Pleasant Grove--from 1845 to
						1849--and he and his large family would naturally be interested in keeping up the
						school. Probably no change in officers for some time took place.
					In a few years a church building was erected south of the school house, in the same
						grove, and to this the school was removed. Two dates are found for this church building,
						1851 and 1853. Here the Pleasant Grove Sunday school was kept up (superintendents, T.
						Cleveland, Adam Hamilton Jr., and C. Templeton, perhaps others) until the present town
						of Lowell was founded and that began to be a school and church center. In 1863, at
						Pleasant Grove, C. Templeton was Superintendent, and this school commenced, at his
						suggestion, visiting the neighboring schools at Lowell and Orchard Grove for the purpose
						of gaining more knowledge in school methods, and for stimulating each other in the work.
						This exchange of school courtesies led to the large Sunday-school assembly at Lowell in
						August of 1863. Then, it is said, Judge Ball, of Cedar Lake, proposed that a similar
						assembly should be held every year. This led to the county organization in 1865; after
						the summer assembly that year on the east side of Cedar Lake. Thus singularly the two
						pioneer schools  of Pleasant Grove and Cedar Lake
						co-operated in forming the Lake County Sunday-School Union.
					Mrs. S. G. Wood says: "Lake County, 1884," page 196: "In 1870 the M. E. church of
						Lowell was built, and accordingly the Pleasant Grove church was abandoned and all
						concentrated in this new one in Lowell." At this time, it would seem, if not before, the
						Pleasant Grove school, as such, ceased to exist. The Cedar Lake school changed its
						locality three times, but it has preserved its name and kept not very far from the lake.
						A church center Pleasant Grove has ceased to be. For thirty years such a center it truly
						was.

				

				

				

					VI. THE GROVE SCHOOLS.

					It is taken for granted that all readers of this book bave access to a map of Lake
						county, The location, therefore, of these schools need not be marked out. Of South East
						Grove it may be said that it is rather the finest upland grove of the county, nearly
						circular in form, covering an area of about one mile, and comprising parts of four
						sections. Here an early settlement of enterprising families was made. Early family names
						of this grove are: Morris, Parkinson, Smith, Servis, Flint, Ketchum, Thompson, Brown,
						Wallace, Crawford, Bray, Fisher, Cochran, Durland, Kingsbury, Post. These are found
						between 1835 and 1850. Some of these families were Methodist and some Presbyterian.
					The date once found for the organization of the first school here was 1845; but
						researches made this year lead to an earlier, yet an uncertain date.
					From Louis Parkinson, a resident in 1837, it has been ascertained that the first school
						was organized by Orlando V. Servis in his own log cabin, which "cabin," Mrs. William
						Brown, of the Wallace family, states,  "with eighty acres
						of land, was purchased by Lyman Wallace in 1842." Mrs. Brown further says, that when the
						family came in 1843, a log building, on land then or afterward owned by Gibson
						Parkinson, was used for school, church, and Sabbath school; and that O. V. Servis or
						Robert Thompson generally superintended the school. The school, then, was in existence
						before 1842, and had its second locality in 1843. The date of settlement of O. V. Servis
						is 1837. The very sickly season of 1838 followed, and the probability is that the school
						could not have been opened and carried on before 1839 or 1840. Here again, unexpectedly,
						we find a school that may claim, with three others, to have been the first. O. V. Servis
						"was an Episcopal Methodist and one of the live workers in the church." Robert Thompson
						was a Methodist local preacher. We can not well place this school later than 1841. How
						much earlier it was is not sure.
					In 1850 was built the frame-school house and again the locality of the school was
						slightly changed. After the removal from the grove of O. V. Servis, Joseph Bray was
						chosen superintendent and he was succeeded by John Martin, Samuel Parkinson, Leroy Doak,
						Alexander Turner, and H. Boyd. Mrs. Parkinson, now living in Hebron, was an active
						member of this school, and gave the children a strawberry festival, one summer, in her
						own shaded yard, from her own productive vines. The Crawford, Brown, and Doak families
						were also active in carrying on this school, and for several years it ranked among the
						first and the best of the country schools of the county. With Orchard Grove, Plum Grove,
						Lake Prairie (and Robinson Prairie and Center while they were in existence), it was
						always reliable for sustaining the County Convention. For making pastoral "donations"
						there was not a better school in the  county. This school
						closed in 1885, the schools in the church buildings at Le Roy taking, to some extent,
						its place. It is probable that South East Grove, so long a church and a social center,
						where so many gatherings of various kinds have been, with all its native beauty and its
						sheltered situation, will be added to the other places in the county, where, in this
						generation, there will be no more Sunday school and no more church.

					

					At Orchard Grove, also, there was an early settlement of intelligent families. The
						organization of the school here by Charles Kenney in 1842, has been mentioned. When the
						small frame school house was built, the school was held there with the same
						Superintendent; one of the sons of J. M. Kenney, who is still living, and is the Orchard
						Grove merchant and postmaster, succeeded his father in the same position, and the office
						has since his retirement from its active duties, been filled by G. W. Handley, the
						constant and faithful Superintendent for many years, by L. Wallace, and by G. Ragon.
					It has been quite a large and useful school. As Orchard Grove, where Rev. J. C. Brown
						preached for a time, soon became an established point for Methodist class meetings and
						preaching and quarterly meetings, The school has been denominational. The school house
						is pleasant. 

					

					The third of these schools bears the name PLUM GROVE, and in regard to its organization there is no uncertainty. It was
						organized in the fall of 1852 by the Rev. William Townley, Presbyterian pastor at Crown
						Point, but organized as a Union school. So far as is now known Joseph Bray, of Southeast
						Grove, Dr. Brownell, and Allen Hale, were the earlier superintendents. About 1856 the
						main charge of the school  came upon Mrs. b: J. Dinwiddie,
						who was generally Superintendent and a teacher until about 1882. Superintendents since
						have been Martin Nichols, Mrs. Nettie Henderson, and Mrs. L. V. Pearce. Although first
						opened in the fall, the school was for many years, like most other of our country
						schools, only a summer school; but in the fall of 1875 it was proposed to make it
						"evergreen," and T. H. Ball, who since 1864 has usually been the Plum Grove pastor,
						acted through the winter as Superintendent. E. W, Dinwiddie was Secretary. Eighty
						members were in attendance. The experiment proved to be a success. There were cold winds
						on the ten miles of prairie between Crown Point and Plum Grove, but the Superintendent
						and his trusty steed, the dark brown "Zella," did not fear winter storms.
					From the school at Plum Grove many have gone forth to become active Sunday-school
						workers in Kansas and Nebraska, in Missouri, and in other points of the great West.
					It was a,beautiful sight on one of those memorable Sundays, years ago, when the then
						sixteen members of the Dinwiddie family, the mother, the children, the grand-children,
						were all present in the school. The grand-children of the Dinwiddie and Pearce families,
						numbering now some thirty-five, form not a small portion of the Plum Grove Union
							school.* The Superintendent and
						Treasurer of this year, Mrs. Pearce and Miss Jessie Bryant, are members of the one
						family; and the secretary until August, John A. Dinwiddie, and the *NOTE.--Mrs. Pearce, who is still living,
							and the husband of Mrs. Dinwiddie were brother and sister, both among the pioneer
							settlers of Lake county. So these thirty-five children all are cousins. Of these
							children, too young to be even in the infant class, HERBERT RAY DINWIDDIE, son of E.W. Dinwiddie, passed up to
							Paradise, out from his mother's arms and love, September 17, 1890.
						 secretary since August, Elmer Dinwiddie, are members of
						ethe other.
					The McCann and the Hale families, though not equalling the other two in numbers, have
						for long years borne their parts well in this school. And members of other families have
						for a longer or shorter time taken a deep interest in the school, and aided nobly in
						sustaining it. An interesting record of a young and remarkable child member, Juno
						Henderson, may be found in "Lake of the Red Cedars," pages 297-301. She died when
						between nine and ten years of age, probably the most mature Christian child that has
						been trained in any of our schools.
					Many have gone from this school to become active Workers in the newer States.

					

					The following, copied from "Our Banner," of May, 1888, may fittingly close the record
						of this school:

					

						"Friend after friend departs;
						Who has not lost a friend?"

					

					Lake county has lately lost another very active and devoted Sunday-school teacher,
						superintendent and friend, Mrs. M. J. Dinwiddie, a daughter of Joseph Perkins and of
						Mrs. Elizabeth Cook Perkins, was born in Rome, New York, May 5, 1818, became a Christian
						and a church member in youth, commenced active life as a teacher, was planning to become
						a foreign missionary, but came to Illinois on a visit, and was married there Aug. 19,
						1844, to John W. Dinwiddie, of Lake county, Indiana. Settling in Lake county, and in
						1852 at Plum Grove, her active disposition found, besides family duties, work to do in
						advancing temperance Sunday schools and home and foreign missions. She became a member
						of the Cedar Lake JBaptist Church, May 3, 1851, and was, for the last ten years of her
						life,  a member of the North St. Baptist Church, at Crown
						Point. Quite a view. of her life, of her home, and of her children can be found in "THE LAKE OF THE RED CEDARS," and need not be repeated here. Her special school work commenced in
						1852, at Plum Grove, and her interest and active efforts in behalf of the county work
						ended only with her life. She died March 15, 1888, leaving five children and nineteen
						grand-children. The writer of this sketch, who is himself three-score years of age, who
						began Sunday-school life in this county some forty-eight years ago, feels that his
						earlier associates in this work are passing, one by one, away. During the-few years that
						he may yet live, while there are in his field thousands of children whom he loves, and
						for whom, in part, he lives, he will not cease to cherish the memory of MRS. DINWIDDIE, OF PLUM GROVE.


					
					

						CENTER SCHOOL.

						This school, a record having been kindly furnished a few years ago by an early
							secretary, J. P. Downs, was first organized by. Mrs. Bell Mitchell, wife of Simeon
							Mitchell, in 1864. It was re-organized in 1869 by Joseph Bray of South East Grove, who
							died May 24, 1890, at the home of his son in Jasper county, sixty- eight years of
							age.
						Miss Melissa Hain afterwards carried on this school successfully for some
							time--Superintendent in 1870 when quite a large number of young people attended the
							school--and the last Superintendent was Mrs. L. V. Pearce.



					

				

				

					VII. MERRILLVILE METHODIST SCHOOL.

					It seems impossible now to find out when or by whom the first school was organized in
						Merrillville. Mr.  Hiram Barton reports a school in
						existence in 1851, and that he, only twelve years of age then, was a teacher, and that
						one of the now well known business men of Crown Point, Paul Raasch, was a member of his
						class. He names as interested in this school Mr. Francis Pinnell, who perhaps organized
						it in 1850, who afterward died in Michigan, being 96 years old. The burial services, H.
						Barton, in September, 1881, attended. Concerning this, probably, first superintendent in
						Merrillville, Francis R. Pinnell (P. M. Knoll having been the second), quite a record,
						published just after his death, is now before me. According to this record his father,
						James Pinnell, born in England, having resided in London, came to this country in 1733;
						settled in Jamestown, Virginia, served seven years in the Revolutionary War, a member of
						General Washington's body guard. In Jamestown Francis R. was born in 1785, became a
						member of the Methodist church in 1800, was. educated at Stanton College, Virginia, was
						licensed to exhort in 1803, took part in political life, was sheriff of Logan county,
						was Judge of the County Court, was a member of Colonel R. Buckley's Light Horse Company
						the War of 1812, and in 1835 settled in Berrien county, Mich. In that county he, was
						township clerk, school inspector, justice of the peace, and county surveyor, having been
						assistant surveyor of the Michigan Central railroad from Niles to Michigan City. When he
						became a resident of Merrillville in this county does not appear, but he could hardly
						have remained here many years. Mr. Barton is quite sure that he was not only interested
						in Sunday-school work but was actually Superintendent about 1850. While therefore he was
						not one among our pioneers--in Michigan he was a
						pioneer--he was quite an early laborer here, and should be remembered by us in this
						semi-centennial year. His  name does not appear in the
						record soon to be given, but the name of one of his sons is there found.
					The school of 1851 could not have been a permanent school. While searching for facts in
						Merrillville, an old Sunday-school secretary's book was placed in my hands in which was
						the following:
					"This is to certify that the Merrillville Sunday- school was organized by the Methodist
						church, May 5, 1862, in Merrillville, Lake bounty, State of Indiana, at nine
						o'clock."

					First Officers and Teachers.

					Superintendent, Thomas Pinnell; Assistants, John Underwood and Mrs. Lucinda Green;
						Secretary, James Hemenway; Librarian, I. B. Pierce; Treasurer, Georg Nicholson.

					

						Teachers.--No. in Class.

						Mrs. Sarah Lewis
							6
						Hiram Case
							4
						Bennet Bates
							4
						Daniel Lindsey
							4
						William Frasier
							4
						Anah Hemenway
							4
						Frank Barton
							4
						Mrs. R. Sawyer
							5
						John Merrill
							4
						Minerva Saxton
							3
						Emily Newton
							5
						Bible Class, Teacher, John Underwood
							9.
						Number of scholars first Sunday
							47

					

					A record follows of fifteen Sundays. Probably of the first season. Record kept of
						number of verses recited the first year. The highest numbers are: Ruth Ann Green, 512;
						Amy Anderson, 606. Total by the school, 1,983.
					This school having twelve classes in 1862, has no doubt continued through varied
						experiences until the present time. Its members have taken not a little interest  in the annual gatherings of the comuity Convention, and have
						shown interest in the county institute and mission work. Of this school from 1864 to
						1872, Hiram Barton was Superintendent. Since 1872 the superintendents have been: Mrs. M.
						J. Hyde, 1872-1879, by whom it was made an evergreen school; Myiel Pierce, 1880-1888; S.
						Wayman, 1888-1889; C. L. Merrill, 1890.
					It has been among the substantial, reliable, evergreen schools, a power for good in the
						community.

				

				

				

					VIII. THE HOBART SCHOOLS.

					The date of 1851 is assigned to the organization of the first school at Hobart. This
						was organized by H. N. Wheeler and did not long continue. The second school was
						organized in 1863, by S. Stilwell and W. H. Rifenburg. It did not prove to be permanent.
						In 1864 or 1865 a school was organized by Mrs. Nickerson, by Mrs. Wadge, the wife of one
						of our State senators, and by some others with them, at the Hobart school house. This
						school has been kept up year after year until the present time. It was a Union school.
						After the completion of the Methodist church building the school was held in the church.
						When the church needed repairs in 1876 the school was again held in the school house,
						and then removed to the Unitarian church, as a denominational school was commenced in
						the Methodist church. The Hobart Union school became practically, if not for a time in
						name, a Unitarian school, and has generally been the leading school of Hobart. Mr. W. H.
						Rifenburg has usually been its Superintendent, and as he is an active, popular,
						influential, genial, business man, the school would naturally have material prosperity.
						Each summerthis school goes on a pleasure excursion to the shore of Lake Michigan,
						accompanied  usually by the other schools of the town. The
						school has had quite a large library.
					The Hobart Methodist school was organized after the re-opening of the church building
						in 1876. Mrs. S. Kean, now Mrs. S., K. Rice, was Superintendent. Her daughter, now Mrs.
						J. M. Whitmore, was Infant-class teacher, her class at one time numbering eighty-five,
						being then the largest in the county. This was a large and flourishing school in 1881,
						and has continued to maintain much interest and life, with some decrease at times in
						number. Superintendents have been: Mrs. Rice, Abel Wood, Mrs. Whitmore, and H. C.
						Hanson. Twelve members of the school have this year become church members.
					In 1883 was organized the Christian Union Sunday school, of Hobart. Superintendent,
						Abel Wood; Assistant, W. B. Ballentyne; Treasurer, A. K. Garhart. The sessions of the
						school were first held in the old brick school house, afterward in what is known in
						Hobart as the Chapel room, and finally the school was removed to the tabernacle church,
						after that building was erected. In the Band tabernacle building a Congregational church
						was organized May 16, 1885, and the school was adopted by the church, and soon became
						the Hobart Congregational Sunday school. It is now quite large and flourishing.
						Superintendents, A. Wood and E. Stelow.
					The German Methodist school at Hobart was organized about 1874.
					F. F. Frank, who was this year married to the cultivated organist of the Crown Point
						German Methodist school, has been for many years the Superintendent.
					The Swedish Methodist school was commenced about 1887 by J. E. Mannder, an educated and
						cultivated Swede, who was this year nominated for State Senator of Lake and Porter
						counties.

					

					The school is now prosperous. Superintendent, Ellis Anderson.
					The Swedish Lutheran sclool in Hobart is prosperous, having sixty members. This is the
						only Lutheran school in the county that has taken ally part in a Convention anniversary.
						Thlis school united in the exercises at Hobart in 1888. It seems to the writer that all
						Evangelical schools, all that could be represented in the Evangelical Alliance, might,
						if sufficiently Americanized, unite in a county Sunday-school inter-denominational
						convention. Are denominational lines to separate us in everything? How fittingly at such
						a convention might be sung No. 198, in Gospel Hymns:

					
						
							

								Lift up, lift up thy voice with singing,
								Dear land, with strength lift up thy voice!
								The kingdoms of the earth are bringing
								Their treasures to thy gates-rejoice!

							
							

								CHORUS--Arise and shine in youth immortal,
								Thy light is come, thy King appears!
								Beyond the Century's swinging portal
								Breaks a new dawn--the thousand years.

							
							

								And shall his flock with strife be riven?
								Shall envious lines his church divide,
								When he, the Lord of earth and heaven,
								Stands at the door to claim his bride?

							
							

								Lift up the gates! bring forth oblations!
								One crowned with crowns a message brings,
								His word, a sword to smite the nations;
								His name, the Christ, the King of kings.

							
							

								He comes! let all the earth adore Him;
								The path his human nature trod
								Spreads to a royal realm before Him,
								The LIFE of life, the WORD of God."

							
						
					

				

				

				

					IX. LAKE HOME.

					The following Memorial will give the organization of this school and other items of
						interest concerning it.
					It is taken from OUR BANNER of October, 1887, and
						is part of an official report as made at the twenty- second anniversary of the county
						Convention.
					The following was the closing part of the Secretary's report at Lake Station, August
						31, 1887:
					Death has visited our ranks more frequently than usual within the past year. On Sunday
						morning, February 6th, of this year, Carrie D. Hipsley, fifteen years of age, a girl of
						much promise, a member of the Salem school, was called away from earth; and three days
						after, on Wednesday, there followed into the unseen world Clara Isabel M. Davis, not
						quite fourteen years of age, a member of the Dyer school. Clara when only nine years of
						age made public profession of her faith in the Saviour and her love to him, and became
						at that early age a church member, leaving thus a bright example for all our children. .
						She was a well beloved young sister in the Lord. We miss these bright and loved ones,
						young Carrie and Clara, from: our throng to-day; and there is yet one more whom largely
						we all must miss, the energetic, active, and beloved superintendent of this Lake Home
						school, sister Ella Lincoln. Her death was truly here as when a standard-bearer falleth.
						It seems appropriate to present the following brief memorial:
					Ella M. Mabiey was born March 4, 1854, near Fayetteville, in North Carolina. After the
						war, while she was yet in early youth, her father's family removed to Indiana, and
						having gained knowledge somewhere, in 1871, when only seventeen years of age, she began
						to teach in the public schools of Indianapolis, where she continued to teach for six
						years, until her marriage. While a teacher in Indianapolis she was baptized by  Dr. Henry Day, then pastor of the First Baptist church of
						that city, of which church she became a member, in the choir of which church she was one
						of the singers, as was also T. E. Lincoln, whom she afterward married. She was a member
						also of the Sabbath school of that church when J. R. Osgood, a large manufacturer of
						that city, was superintendent, the most noted Baptist superintendent of his day in the
						State. She was married by Dr. Day June 24, 1877, when twenty-three years of age, and
						went immediately to reside in Joliet, but not long after her residence was changed to
						Chicago, where she attended the Baptist church known as Dr. Lorimer's. In February,
						1881, Mr. and Mrs. Lincoln made their home on a farm a little south of Lake, the other
						side of Deep River. In January, 1882, was organized through her influence this Lake Home
						school, and through her energy and influence (an influence that is not yet spent, that
						we all may feel with us here to-day, that will be felt by some of these children while
						they live), through summers and winters, through heat and cold, and storms and freshets,
						the school life has been maintained.
					It is safe to say that no superintendent in Lake county has exhibited more resolution
						or needed more energy in reaching his school than did she across a sometimes frozen,
						sometimes swollen and apparently bridgeless river. And in the night-time of April 18,
						1887, she attempted the passage of a very different river, the viewless river, in the
						deep waters of which we are sure she did not sink, for she had a stronger arm to lean
						upon than the arm of any man, and she passed over that river safely into the heavenly
						land. At the early age of thirty-three her life-work was done. It was a sad day when on
						April 21st the children of this Lake Home school gathered for the last time around her
						no  longer living form, and amid their grief and tears
						placed above her remains their little gifts of flowers. And from among them for all life
						she passed away.
					She was a natural teacher. She had a natural talent not bestowed on all, of easily
						governing children. She loved to be with them. That she was successful as a public
						school teacher is evident from her position for six years in Indianapolis. She loved
						music and was a good musician. This also is evident from her position in that city
						choir. And many of us have heard her voice at Crown Point, at Hammond, and at Lowell, a
						voice which on earth we will hear no more. She now rests from her labors and her works
						will follow her; and perhaps, although she spent those years of girlhood's prime in the
						capital of our State, and those earlier years of womanhood in the city of Chicago,
						perhaps her choicest years of labor were these last five with the boys and girls of
						Lake. She was not fully satisfied with her work, yet she believed that it was for good.
						Let us imitate her example and emulate her virtues.
					Since the death of Mrs. Lincoln, her husband, T. E. Lincoln, Mrs. E. Corey, and Le
						Grand T. Meyer have been superintendents. Miss Tillie Grimshaw as organist has been very
						helpful in the school; and members of the Hazelgreen, Burt, Moore, and other families
						have aided in carrying it on.
					In 1887 the Convention met with this school, of which anniversary as quite an unusual
						one, a record will elsewhere be found.
					An earlier school than this of Lake Home was organized at Lake Station, as early as
						1872, when twenty- five members were reported, but of this school further records are
						not found. The first Lake Station school belongs only to the past.

				

				

				

					X. LOWELL SCHOOLS.

					May 6, 1848, there was organized the second Baptist church in Lake county, called the
						Baptist church of West Creek, ten years after the organization of the Cedar Lake Baptist
						church. The place of meeting of this church was a school house in the neighborhood of
						what is now called Pine Grove. According to the recollection of the writer that school
						house, then a central place for holding religious meetings, was on the State road in
						section 5, it may have been on section 4; township, without any doubt, 32, and range 9
						west. It would seem that a Sunday school was carried on by the members of this church,
						although the only trace of it that now appears is the following associational record for
						1852: "This church, though small in number, is strong in missionary efforts; their
						contributions are large. * * * * Sabbath-school instruction continued with zeal; library
						of seventy volumes." This school will remain without being "named" or "counted" in the
						memorial records of this book; but it leads up to Lowell. In January, 1856, this West
						Creek church, having been for some time without a pastor, ceased to exist as an
						organization, a part of its members uniting with others in a new church known as the
						Baptist church at Lowell, organized January 20, 1856, in the new brick school house.
						Here, in 1857, so far as any records show, was organized the LOWELL
							UNION SUNDAY SCHOOL. Whether
						that West Creek library of seventy volumes came to this school, or where it went, is not
						known. June 28, 1857, the Baptist church building at Lowell was dedicated, and in this
						building the Union school was held until it ceased to exist in 1871. H. B. Austin, of
						Buncombe Street, was for years Superintendent. D. Fry, still a resident of Lowell, was
						chorister, and the school was noted for its excellent 
						singing, for the many child voices that joined always in song. In 1867 this school was
						the largest in the county. So long as it existed it was no little part of the county
						Convention force. For about fifteen years it carried on as a Sunday school a noble work.
						It was evangelical and union, and the different
						denominations represented worked together harmoniously. Many children in those fifteen
						years gained in that school much good.
					The Pleasant Grove school was traced down to 1870. In that year two new church
						buildings, Methodist and Christian, were erected at Lowell. A record exists that in
						1871, the original or first Lowell Union school ceasing to exist, denominational schools
						commenced. There is some obscure Sunday-school history here; but some records which have
						just been found will harmonize, it is hoped, the somewhat conflicting individual
						recollections. From the report of 1872, in August, the following is an extract: "As
						Secretary of the Convention I have endeavored to visit all our schools. I commenced
						September 3d and closed August 25th. Have succeeded in visiting nearly all. The northern
						and central schools seem to have been more prosperous this year than those of the
						southwest. The Lowell Union, one of the largest atd best in the county during former
						years, closed up last fall and has not since reopened." "Its place is in part supplied
						by the Lowell Methodist."
					In August of 1870, this record was made: "The Lowell school has felt the loss of its
						former superintendent, Mr. Austin, one of the zealous, earnest workers in this cause,
						now an inmate of the Insane Asylum at Indianapolis." The school continued, it appears,
						through the summer of 1871. In August, 1872, it was not reopened.
					In August, 1873, the report stated: "At Lowell the Union school, discontinued in 1871,
						was reopened at the  Christian meeting-house, June 1;
						though not so large as in former years it seems to be prospering." In that year the
						Lowell Union and Lowell Methodist Episcopal were reported. From the diary or journal of
						school visitations, the following is the entry for 1873: "June 8, visited the school at
						Lowell, the M. E. school; present about 70; school increasing; meets at 9:30 A. M." "3
						P. M. Visited the Lowell Union S. S.; present 57; school lately reopened." Again from
						that journal: "July 13, Morning, M. E. S. S. at Lowell. P. M., Union S. S. at Lowell."
						That there were, in 1873, these two schools at Lowell certainly can not be
						questioned.
					In 1875 the secretary reported thus: "My own labors mostly in southeastern part of the
						county. Visited a few schools, "attended the re-opening of Lowell Union;" and he
						reported that year "Lowell M. E., Lowell Union, and Lowell----:" three schools, one
						without a full name. It seems to be the fair inference from this report that in 1875, at
						the Baptist Church in Lowell, a school called Lowell Union was opened or re-opened. That
						this inference is correct is made evident by the official reports from the individual
						schools for 1877. These are all on file and can be examined at any time. The three
						Lowell schools are reported thus:

					

						UNION S. S.

						Supt., Rev. J. Bruce.
						Teachers and officers, 11.
						Whole number of scholars, 90.
						Number of church members, 25.
						Under twenty-one years of age, 79.
						Sec., M. E. Driscoll.

					

					

					

						CHRISTIAN SABBATH SCHOOL.

						Supt., Henry Dickinson.
						Teachers and officers, 10.
						Whole number of scholars, 41.
						Under twenty-one years of age, 21.
						Sec., Julia Lawrence.

					

					

						LOWELL M. E. S. S.

						Supt., Alonzo Martin.
						Teachers and officers, 17.
						Whole number of scholars, 90.
						Number of conversions sincelast August, 16.
						Number of church members, 26.
						Under twenty-one years of age, 70.
						Sec., Clara Metcalf.

					

					These are official reports and can not be questioned, and it is evident that in each of
						the three churches there was a school. How long the three continued does not fully
						appear in the reports. (Some are not on file.) But the secretary's journal for 1882
						contains the following: "July 23. Visited Lowell M. E. school in the morning, and
						attended meeting at Christian church. 2 1/2 P. M., Band of Hope. 4, Lowell new Union
						school. Some life apparent here. Expect the Convention."
					To infer again, it seems that between 1877 and 1882 two of the schools, the one in the
						Baptist and the one in the Christian church, had united, and that thus was formed the
						present Lowell Union; or perhaps the Christian school was discontinued, and the Lowell
						Union of the Baptist was transferred to the Christian church. These seem now to be the
						historic facts: that the Lowell M. E. school was organized in 1871; that in 1873 a
						school called Lowell Union was opened in the Christian church, the name afterwards being
						the Christian school; that in 1875 a school was opened again in the Baptist church and
						called Lowell Union; and that  before 1882 this school was
						removed to the Christian church or united with the Christian school, and the original
						name of each school was retained, the Lowell Union Sunday school.
					The Lowell Union, with its present, enrollment membership of 124; and with such sturdy
						workers as the two Dickinsons, father and son (the son, Cyrus F. Dickinson, a leader of
						church music); as brethren, J. L. Worley and James Pinkerton; with such zealous
						assistants as are the whole membership of the Christian church, has been for years one
						of the strong, reliable schools of the county.
					The earlier superintendents were, Rev. J. Bruce, C. F. Dickinson.
					Superintendent for several past years, James Pinkerton; for the last few years, Cyrus
						F. Dickinson.
					Many members of this school have become members of the Church.
					The Lowell Methodist Episcopal school reports a membership of 106. The superintendents
						for nineteen years have been:
					George W. Waters,--- Jones, Evi Fuller, Alonzo Martin, 1877; George W. Waters, John
						McCabe, Perry Jones, Mrs. P. D. Clark, J. W. Viant 1883; C. E. Chaffee 1884; J. H.
						Spindler, Charles Ketchem.
					The first school at Lowell (the town plat of that place as recorded bearing date May
						13, 1853) was carried on by Mrs. Mahala Van Slyke, a sister of Mrs. S. J. Clark, in
						either 1852 or 1853; Mrs. Van Slyke was a day school or secular school teacher. She was
						one of the teachers in a large school taught at Crown Point in the old Methodist church
						building. She cared for the spiritual Welfare of her pupils. In Lowell, having built a
						small house and opened a school there, she also commenced a Sunday school. This school
						did not continue long.

				

				

				

					XI. LAKE PRAIRIE.*

					BY REV. H. WASON.
					The Lake Prairie Sabbath-school (in West Creek township) was organized in the log house
						of Mr. Abiel Gerrish May 17, 1857. The next Sabbath, May 24th, was the first school,
						with forty in attendance. Rev. H. Wason was first superintendent and held the office for
						several years. The majority of those, connected with t: he congregation, both old and
						young, attended Sabbath- school, many coming a long distance. The venerable Dr. Peach,
						who lived to be ninety-eight years old, was a scholar as long as he was able to attend.
						For several years it was a large school. Samuel Ames, E. N. Morey, Rev. H. Sheeley, J.
						D. Baughman and T. A. Wason have been Superintendents. The present one, who has served
						for some years, is Lewis G. Little. The *NOTE.--I was desirous that the record of the Lake Prairie
							school, for this anniversary and this volume, should be written by one who for so many
							years was pastor in the southwestern part of the county, when the "parish" (to use a
							New England word) was larger than it is now; by one who could say of his record, as
							Virgil's neas says of what he rehearses, a great part of which I was--magna pars fui--and that desire has been gratified. But the writer modestly
							refrained from saying some things which justly ought to be said in regard to this
							school. As already suggested, the field or area over which this school extended, for
							several years after 1857, was much larger than it has been in these later years. This
							naturally made the school a larger power for good; a larger community felt its
							influence. Its earlier workers were then in the prime of life. Captain Little was
							there, Mrs. Gerrish was there, Mr. and Mrs. Ames were there, and Miss Sarah Little;
							and it is safe to say that a more cultivated school choir was not then in the county,
							when Mrs. Wason, Mrs. Ames, and Miss Little were leading vocalists. Also the Fuller
							and Blayney families from over West Creek were there. And when the school met in the
							Convention gatherings we all knew there were trained New England voices to give us the
							sweet Sunday-school songs. There are younger singers, younger teachers, younger
							leaders there now, and they might say, the county Secretary and Editor is growing old,
							if he here suggests palmy days were in the past. And so, recognizing what a power for
							good this school now is, with its compact phalanx of Christian young people, and its
							comparatively youthful leaders, I may close this long note with these words of the old
							gladiators: "We, who are about to die, salute you."
						 school has been kept up most of the time since its
						organization; the present number is about seventy.
					The Buncombe Union Sunday-school was organized in 1861. One of the first
						superintendents was a Mr. Morgan, who afterwards went West. Mr. Worley also had charge
						of it for some time, and others whose names I am unable to learn. It was usually well
						attended and did much good; has not been in session for some years. It was held in a
						school house on the township line between Cedar Creek and West Creek, near the
						marsh,

				

				

				

					XII. OTHER UNION SCHOOLS.

					THE PINE GROVE UNION SCHOOL was organized in 1883 by Mrs. Minnie Ells, then a
						teacher in the public school in that district. After she left the school Hon. Joseph A.
						Little was Superintendent, also W. H. Bradley and Alexander Burhans. A sad calamity came
						in the spring of 1885. On Sunday afternoon, May 24, thunder clouds came over the
						southern part of the county; the superintendent was out in his dooryard observing these
						clouds. He was near a tree to which was attached a wire clothes-line. A bright flash of
						lightning came from the clouds, and from the tree and the wire the lightning passed to
						the human form. In that flash was death, and a lifeless form was all that remained here
						of one who had been an earnest and faithful Sunday-school worker. A few moments before
						he had been reading with his family in his home. Suddenly he was called up to the great
						Home.
					For the last five years Lewis G. Little, of Lake Prairie, has been, for most if not the
						entire time, the efficient Superintendent of this school. The Little family of Lake
						Prairie, some of whom became residents in this county in 1855, have aided largely in
						keeping up  this school; as they have also done much for
						the Lake Prairie school; showing that zeal and that energy in a good cause which have
						characterized this large American Little family for two and a half centuries: a family
						descended from George Little of Newberry, Massachusetts, who came from London in 1640,
						whose descendants in these years have numbered more than six thousand and five hundred
						Americans. The three brothers and three sisters of this Lake county generation, members
						of these two schools near their prairie home, are, through their mother, who was Mary
						Gerrish of Lake Prairie, descendants, of the eleventh generation, of John Rogers the
						martyr, who was burned at Smithfield February 14, 1555. Inheritors of the traditions and
						associations that come through a Puritan and also a martyr line, all these would be
						expected to find a place and work in our Sunday schools.
					In the neighborhood of Pine Grove school are families also of active, intelligent young
						people whose zeal in promoting their own moral and religious welfare has made for
						themselves a good record. Their names will all be found on the enrollment page.
					A member of the infant class, whose name is there enrolled, passed away this year from
						her home and school life. ELLA E. BELSHAW, the younger daughter of Edward and Rosina
						Brannon Belshaw, was born on Tuesday, May 26, 1885, and died of diphtheria, on Monday,
						March 3, 1890. Not quite five years of age, she was a winsome little child, was a joy
						and a light in her home, attended the Sunday school, learned something of earth and
						life, of a Saviour and his love, enjoyed and suffered here, disposed of her playthings
						and earthly possessions, and went to sleep in death. Surely some time will her hour of
						waking come. Her sleep in death is not a sleep for ever.

					

					

						EGYPT UNION.

						About 1865 a school in the neighborhood two and a half miles south of Lowell, known
							as. Egypt, was conducted by James Wells. He was a son of that William Wells who lost
							his life in the severe snow storm of November 17, 1842. He became a Methodist minister
							and left this county many years ago. How many seasons this school continued has not
							been ascertained; but in 1878 the Egypt school was again in session, with John Burge
							as Superintendent and Nathan Worley as Assistant. There is again an uncertainty as to
							the number of summers in which the school was now kept up, but in 1883 Ellis Cross,
							then a young man and student, whose home was near Lowell, was found here carrying on
							the school. When visited that summer by the county Secretary it was a very pleasant,
							quite large, and prosperous school. The young Superintendent attended the normal
							school at Crown Point in 1884, went afterward to Valparaiso as a student, became a
							minister of the "Christian" denomination or church, was a successful evangelist in
							Porter and Starke counties, and is now preaching in the State of New York. Again, in
							1889, the school was re-organized, Mrs. Susie Allen, a daughter of Mr. Dickinson,
							Superintendent. Again the school was interesting and prosperous. When opened in the
							spring of this year, 1890, J. L. Worley was chosen Superintendent. Miss Ida A.
							Anderson and Miss Gracie B. Ebert have been its Secretaries. As in 1883 so now it is a
							school, as to locality and membership, to interest a visitor.

					

					

					

						BUTLER UNION.

						The Butler Union school, like many others, takes its name from the name of the school
							house where it is held, which is on the Joliet wagon-road nearly two  miles west from Merrillville. The name came from the
							Butler family, a pioneer family in Lake County. There is good evidence that William
							Butler erected some cabins, where is now Crown Point, in the summer or early fall of
							1834, but he made there no settlement. The Sunday school at what has been long known
							as the Butler school house was organized, in the spring of 1880, by A. T. Davis, now
							residing in Dyer, who was its superintendent for some years, all the family taking an
							active part in the school. After the removal of this family to Dyer, Mrs. Nicholson
							was Superintendent for some four years, and now the office is filled by her husband,
							E. J. Nicholson, while she still remains as Assistant, "the power behind the throne."
							This school has been noted more for earnest steady study of the Scripture, than for
							anything in the line of show or display. The Secretary, who is about eighteen years of
							age, has this year become a living Christian. The acting and active Librarian is as
							yet but a child, a child learning to work in the "vineyard."

					

					

					

						DYER UNION SCHOOL.

						The present school at Dyer was commenced in 1880 by Mrs, F. N. Biggs and Mr. George
							Davis. The inhabitants of Dyer are, for the most part, German Catholics, but a few
							Protestant families having their homes in that town desired for their children the
							advantages of a Sunday school. For some time this school was carried on by the two
							named above; but Mrs. Biggs after a time removed to Crown Point, and Mr. A. T. Davis
							removed from the Butler school neighborhood to Dyer. He then became Superintendent at
							Dyer, and continued in that position about four years. Through the year, or for most
							of the year 1889, Dr. S. Turner was Superintendent. The school  is this year carried on by Mrs. Flanagai, the teachers being Mrs. Johns,
							Mrs. Brewer, Mrs. Templeton, and Mrs. Smith. While not large, this is a very
							interesting and useful school, and the reports from year to year show that, for its
							number of members, it is the best school in the county for its mission contributions
							in aid of home work. It is the only school now in the county contributing regularly
							for that excellent institution, the Foreign Sunday-School Association, of Brooklyn, N.
							Y. It also contributes regularly for the Orphans' Home, in Chicago. It is a pleasure
							to spend an hour in this school.
						Some facts have been gleaned in regard to a much earlier school in or near what is
							now the town of Dyer. Mrs. Babcock is named, and also the Wolcott, Park, and Bower
							families are mentioned as interested in a Sunday school before the Hart family came
							from Philadelphia to Dyer.

					

					

					

						CLARKE UNION SCHOOL.

						A peculiar school was held at Clarke Station for two or three winters. It was not in
							session in the summer. It was carried oil by a benevolent lady whose husband had
							business interests in Lake county in the winter sessions. Unfortunately her name can
							not now be obtained. The school was reported in 1883 with twelve members. The wife of
							the station agent at Clarke for that year, Mrs. Cole, aided in the school. That family
							soon moved away, the business interest was closed, and no more sessions of the Clarke
							school were held.

					

					

					

						THE OUSLEY SCHOOL.

						In a school house north of the Little Calumet, south- east from Hessville, some
							members of what was called the "Band," from Ross, organized a Sunday school and  carried it on for about eighteen months. In 1882 a school
							was again organized here.
						In 1887 and 1888 the school was carried on by Miss Grace Ousley, a noble-hearted
							young Christian, a teacher for a few years ini our public schools. Miss Ousley has
							spent this summer in the British Isles, recruiting health, enjoying the beauties of
							nature and art in that old home of Anglo-Saxon civilization.
						In the fall she returned, and commenced in Chicago the study of pharmacy. The place
							of one so true and unselfish and devoted is not easily filled again in our county of
							Lake.

					

					

					
						The Handley School

						The HANDLEY SCHOOL a few miles east and north
							from Crown Point, was organized when the "Band" movement was meeting with such success
							in Lake county. Preaching was regular at that school house in 1880, and probably then
							the school was organized. It continued some two or three seasons and'was quite a
							flourishing school. S. H. Gehr was Superintendent. It is now among the discontinued
							schools, along with Deer Ceek and Vincent, its near neighbors.

					

					

					

						The JONES SCHOOL, called for a time North
							Pleasant Grove school to distinguish it from the early Pleasant Grove, was organized
							about 1859. At first it was Protestant Methodist, but afterwards became, with the
							agreement of all who were connected with it, Methodist Episcopal. The school was
							prosperous and useful for many years, numbering from forty to sixty members. It was
							closed about 1881. Perry Jones, now of Lowell, Treasurer of the County Convention, was
							its only superintendent.
						This school was re-opened, or rather a new one organized, at the same school house in
							1888, James  Westbay, Superintendent; Secretary, Miss
							Daum. But it was not largely prosperous, and has not this year been in session.
					

				

				

				

					XIII. THE WEST CREEK WEST SIDE SCHOOLS.

					Let us imagine another voice to come in here, another reader now, who takes us back
						again to the earlier times, and to a little cluster or rather line of schools no longer
						in existence.
					A part of Lake county on the Illinois line, averaging a mile in width, lies on the west
						side of West Creek. Five schools, or, perhaps more accurately, two schools, becoming
						afterwards three, in the history of our past, belong to this locality. The first of
						these was organized in the home of Mrs. Sarah Farwell, July 14, 1846, by members of the
						Ball family of Cedar Lake, Elder Benjamin Sawin, of La Porte, being present. This
						statement is taken from a diary record, and so is free from all uncertainty. Members of
						the Ball, Church, and Cutler families united with the Farwell family in carrying on the
						school, which proved to be a very pleasant one, and in which were some more than
						ordinarily promising children. Where those are now, no one in Lake county knows. Seed
						was sown, and that Great Father who was once called by our Saviour the "Husbandman,"
						surely watched over and controlled the results. There are living now of those who were
						young and active then as members of the Cedar Lake church and school helpers in this
						first church mission school of the county: Mrs. E. H. Woodard, of Grove Hill, Alabama,
						who for now about forty years has been a teacher in that Southland; Eli Church, of
						Oregon; and Mrs. Sophia Cutler-Brownlee, of Illinois, the wife, and now the widow of a
						Presbyterian clergyman. Mrs. Farwell died in 1848, and this school, probably, was  closed for a time, but was reopened in 1849 at Brunswick, in
						a log house near the residence of Mr. Joseph Schmall.
					Judge Ball, with the younger members of his family, kept up this school for some time,
						aided by Mrs. Carlos Farwell, who took charge of the school in his absence, members of
						the Burns, Robbins, Farwell, and other Brunswick families, attending. A library was kept
						here which was well read, and especially in later, days by young Stillman A. Robbins,
						who, when a soldier in the 12th Indiana Cavalry, died at Huntsville, Alabama, July 18,
						1864. (See "The Lake of the Red Cedars," page 243.)
					In 1849 Mr. H. S. Fuller, with quite a family of sons and daughters, became a resident
						on one of this row of sections, in range 10, bordering on the Illinois line. West of him
						was then the almost boundless prairie, without a railroad, extending to the Mississippi
						River. East of him was the almost impassable stream called West Creek, with its broad,
						marshy valley and its quicksands. He was a staunch Presbyterian, and, no church or
						school privileges being near, in the spring of 1850 he opened a Sunday school in his own
						house. In the summer of 1851 this family school was transferred to the Graves school
						house, then newly erected. H. S. Fuller was still Superintendent. For some ten years,
						each summer, a school was continued here, J. Milton Blayney and Mrs. Blayney being some
						of the time superintendents. Forty, and sometimes more than this number, were in
						attendance, including the Marvin, Gordinier, Graves, Blayney, Bliss, Fuller, Pattee, and
						DeGroff families.
					Then the school house was burned. In its stead two others were built; one north of Mr.
						Marvin's, the other south of Mr. Blayney's, on the east and west road near  the State line. In each of these new houses a Sunday school
						was organized. The one school which closed with the burnt school house was divided and
						became two. At the northern school Elliott Graves, Mrs. Marvin, Mrs. Blayney, were the
						superintendents. At this school house Rev. H. Wason preached every other Sunday
						afternoon, at the close of the school session. This school continued till about 1871. At
						the other school house, which was near his home, H. S. Fuller was the one
						superintendent. Different ministers preached here and good results followed.
					One of these pastors had an experience in reaching his afternoon appointment. He had
						preached at Lowell in the morning and was to ride over, crossing the Torrey bridge, with
						the Graves family. But, by some disappointment, the conveyance was not present. Riding
						westward, therefore, as far as he had opportunity, he left the buggy and took a direct
						course through the West Creek woods to a spot where he hoped to find a boat. The boat
						could not be found. It was almost time for the services to commence. But the creek, with
						its then marshy valley of tall grass and rushes, with its quicksands here and there--and
						to step into one of these concealed spots was dangerous--with its water snakes and other
						perils, was between him and the school-house. He hesitated not long, but crossed over in
						a way that only those having some knowledge of frontier life would understand and
						appreciate. It would be safe to say that no minister ever crossed that then dangerous
						valley in that way before or since.
					(That same missionary pastor has, in the winter time, in the same manner, passed a
						barrier in the Kankakee valley region, when the ice would in places support his weight,
						and in places would give him the full benefit of the cold water.)

					

					This school closed about 1873, the Fuller family removing to a more western home.
					About twenty-seven years then, from 1846 to 1873, will measure the life of the west
						side West Creek schools, in which Baptists and Presbyterians worked ever harmoniously
						together.
					It may be noticed by the observant reader that the early Baptists, and to quite an
						extent the Presbyterians, established only Union schools.
					From 1850 to 1873, almost continuously, H. S. Fuller was a superintendent. Constantly
						for twenty- three years he was active in the Sunday-school cause and work; and to him
						along with members of the Graves and Blayney and Gordinier families, the credit largely
						belongs of three and twenty years of diligent Sabbath instruction. Of the members of the
						Fuller family, Mrs. Marvin only remains among us.
					Some of those once so active in those schools are yet among the living, and many are
						among the dead. Surely many names of those in the West Creek schools will be found
						written in the "Life Book."

					

					

						WEST CREEK.

						Near the southwest limit of the upland of the county, near the stream called West
							Creek, but on the east side, near the "shore line" of the Kankakee Marsh, we found an
							early Methodist neighborhood, preaching point and Sunday school. How long Adam
							Hamilton, called from his age Father Hamilton, continued to conduct this school is not
							now known. Amaziah Gear is named as one who succeeded him, probably also Aaron Fisher,
							perhaps Henry Parsons, and very surely Levi Tarr. How the school prospered for several
							years is not known. It is not named among the thirty- one schools reported for 1872.
							The neighborhood  changed. In later years Superintendents
							have been Hugh Moore, C. T. Bailey, and Charles Belshaw. It has always had a church
							building in which to meet. It contains some good workers, some interesting
							children.

					

				

				

				

					XIV. SOME SCHOOLS OF THE PAST.

					What was known as the UNDERWOOD school was held at the school house
						of that name from about 1871 to 1877. John Underwood, now a resident of Hobart, author
						of "El Muza," was Superintendent. Mrs. P. Banks, Mrs. D. Underwood, and Mrs. Joy were
						the main supporters of the school. In 1872 the number of scholars in this school was
						sixty.
					Other schools, of which little can now be learned, are: The ADAM'S,
						reporting forty members in 1872; LIVINGSTON'S, also numbering forty;
							HESSVILLE, numbering thirty; LAKE STATION of 1872, numbering twenty-five; ENSIGN'S, numbering
						twenty-five; HICKORY TOP, afterward Ainsworth,
						numbering forty; VINCENT'S, then numbering sixty; PRAIRIE VIEW, also numbering sixty; PLEASANT PRAIRIE, numbering fifty. These numbers are all for
						1872. I am sorry that so little can now be placed on record of schools that were
						fourishing only eighteen years ago.
					Of the schools once held at the CLARK and BUCKLEY
						school houses no report as to numbers has for any year been found.
					The Prairie View school, named above, was for several years quite prosperous. The date
						of organization has not been learned. It was in existence before 1859. About that time
						Dr. Vandewalker, of Hammond, thirty years younger than he is now, was one of the
						superintendents. Mrs. R. Fancher, the family residing in the neighborhood for five
						years, was Superintendent and teacher here. There were others whose  names are not at hand for this record. The school house was one of the many
						in our county, where, in earlier days, regular preaching appointments were kept up. The
						later School Grove school was new. Horace Bliss, a youth in one of the West Creek
						schools, a young merchant in Crown Point sixteen or eighteen years ago, aided in
						religious work at School Grove. He was a noble, Christian young man, and set an example
						worthy of imitation for the young men of to-day. Here the Williams, Chapman, and Farmer
						families of School Grove also helped to maintain Sunday-school life; but all are gone
						from that neighborhood now. As families change Sunday schools start into existence or go
						down. Families make the neighborhood life.
					The Pleasant Prairie school, held at what is now the Winfield school house, was a
						prosperous summer school. When this was first organized is uncertain. Perhaps about
						1870. A school had been held at Eagle Creek Prairie, now Palmer. Mr. Jacob Wise, now a
						resident of Crown Point, Superintendent. This school was commenced about 1863 or 1864.
						The attendance was quite large. The school was kept up for a few summers, quite a
						library having been obtained, and attention being given to singing. After this closed
						about the same community opened a school at the then new school house, and Mr. Wise was
						Superintendent. The young people here gave large attention to singing, their
						Superintendent being a leader and teacher of vocal music. Probably the second
						Superintendent was Joseph Patten. The last school session here was about 1885, Mr. Isaac
						Handley Superintendent. The name of Elliott Bibler belongs somewhere in connection with
						this school; the Baldwin, Smith, Crisman, Bibler, and Blakeman families, the two Handley
						and the two Patten families, and some others, aiding in making it interesting and
						prosperous. In  1885 changes commenced in the neighborhood,
						and it ceased to be a center for preaching and for school. For a part of one term the
						public school had but two pupils. A few particulars have been gathered in regard to the
						Vincent school. As early as 1856 the school house was one of those used on Sundays and
						evenings for religious meetings. There was regular Sabbath preaching here for several
						years. Brother Hines, a Methodist minister, not Episcopal nor Protestant nor Wesleyan,
						simply "Methodist," resided for a time in the neighborhood. His wife was an excellent
						singer, and it was pleasant to hear them sing in Sunday school or church that beautiful
						song, "The Only Way to Heaven is the Royal Way of the Cross." The date of school
						organization is here also uncertain. Perhaps in 1865.
					An early Superintendent, the only one whose name has been obtained, was Frank Larabee.
						He was an earnest, living Methodist, and for a time no little religious life was
						manifested in this Vincent neighborhood. The Holton families and others were here;
						Captain Woodbury lived here; and the social life was pervaded by the religious element.
						A live Sunday school would naturally follow, if it did not precede; and sixty members
						are reported for 1872.
					The second school house here was known as the "Red" school house, and a third one has
						been built. The last Sunday school here was carried on by Superintendent G. Handley and
						others in the summer of 1886.
					Some have been found--Mrs. Underwood, Miss Lathrop, Mrs. Smith, and Mrs. Blachley--who
						have recollections or traditions of the Hickory Top school before 1860. It is probable
						that Mr. Booth, then living in the neighborhood, and Mr. Brown were superintendents or
						active in the school. The school house was a center for religious meetings and other
						social gatherings. About  1863, the Harper family came, and
						soon Mrs. Ruth Harper became and continued for many years active in this school as
						teacher or superintendent. She died March 9, 1884, having been a wife for forty years,
						and having been an earnest, useful Christian woman for about twenty years at Hickory Top
						in our county.
					For the last few years Rodney A. Castle has been superintendent. The name was changed
						to Ainsworth, none were left to sing, he removed to Hobart, and the school was
						closed.
					In 1847 Miss Esther Castle opened a school in a private, house, not then occupied, on
						the farm of Mr. Lathrop, Mrs. Underwood's father, where, for those days, a large number
						attended, as many sometimes as forty. Miss Castle was ta niece of R. A. Castle,
						evidently an active woman, and kept up this school for some years. Out of this school
						probably grew, when a school house was built, perhaps much earlier than 1860, the
						Hickory Top, the Ainsworth school.
					Another quite early school, of which one trace has been found, was also in a private
						house, west of Merrillville. The one who remembers it is not quite sure whether it was
						in the Butler house or in another house near by. Mr. Julius Demmon was either
						Superintendent or a principal teacher in this school. The year has not been determined,
						but it must have been before 1850.
					The Hickory Point school was commenced in 1847. Superintendents: W. A. Nichols,
						1847-1849; W. Gibbs, 1849-1854. Average attendance 40. Interested in the school were the
						Beebe and Gregg families among others. In the early church here were at one time some
						seventy- five members. The religious interests closed here about 1887. The school closed
						much earlier.

				

				

				

					XV. CROWN POINT METHODIST EPISCOPAL SCHOOL.

					In 1843 Rev. Major Allman, who has been already mentioned, came to Crown Point and
						became a resident among us, not as a pastor but as a local preacher, and a helper and
						worker in Christian activities, and especially in building up the Methodist church. He
						concluded it was well to organize a denominational school, and soon therefore left the
						Crown Point Union school, and, according to the best authority we now have, in this same
						year of 1843, encouraged and assisted by Silas Hathaway, he organized the Methodist
						Episcopal Sunday school of Crown Point. It is probable that he was the first
						superintendent. He soon became county recorder, and held that office from 1845 to 1856,
						preaching occasionally and doing school and church work as occasions required. In 1847
						the school began to be held in the then new Methodist church building, and there
						continued until the present building was erected in 1860. In this year of 1847, when the
						two schools of Crown Point were each in church buildings, there were in the county five
						church buildings,--the county was now ten years of age--seven postoffices, about fifty
						frame houses, two brick dwelling houses, and four or five stores. There were five local
						preachers, one circuit, preacher, one Presbyterian pastor. There were two lawyers, six
						or seven physicians, fifteen justices of the peace. There were two saloons. There was
						one village. Crown Point contained about thirty families.
					The Sunday school, of course, was not very large. The school increased in number with
						the growth of the town, for some years, and then for a time declined, and in 1857 its
						members were quite discouraged, but one woman began to give her energies more .fully to
						the work; a new pastor, Rev. J. W. Green, came into the field, church and school
						revived, and the school has continued  to grow as the
						population of the town has increased. Seasons of declension and seasons of revival have
						had their day; but in the main the school has held steadily on.
					The superintendents, so far as can be ascertained, have been the following: Samuel
						Cade, elected in 1849; Sylvester Green, the years not certainly known; Martin Wood; the
						different pastors for a time succeeding, till 1857; Mrs. S. G. Wood, if not by election,
						became for a time largely the life of the school. There followed as elected
						superintendents,--Upthegrove, about 1858; George Krinbill, 1859, in office eight years;
						Andrew Krimbill; J. Hauk; W. T. Horine; again for some time J. Hauk; Mrs. S. G. Wood,
						1886; S. Witherell, 1887, 1888; Dr. Gibbs, 1889, 1890.
					The names of the teachers can not all he given, but the following have been obtained
						for this record. First of all is the name of Mrs. S. G. Wood, a daughter of Rev. George
						W. Taylor, of Pleasant Grove, married to Martin Wood in August of 1849, and entering
						upon home, church, and other duties in Crown Point in 1855.
					Commencing her work as a Sunday-school teacher before her marriage, as many others do
						and have done, she has continued it till the present time, a teacher for forty-three years. As might well be supposed she has been active also in other
						kindred work. Other teachers are: Mrs. R. Fancher, a superintendent and teacher from
						1860 for about twelve years, and for the last eighteen years kept out of the school by
						bodily afflictions; J. Hauk, Mrs. Horine, Mr. and Mrs. Upthegrove, Mrs. Griggs, Miss
						Cordelia Wood, now Mrs. Judge Herrick, of Kansas; Miss Addie Meeker, now Mrs. J.
						Rockwell, for three years teacher of the infant class; Miss Mattie Dresser, now Mrs. Dr.
						Gibbs, teacher for five or six years; Mrs. Witherell, Miss Ann M.  Millikan, George Krinbill, Jr.; Miss Julia Krin bill, Miss Lily Krinbill, T.
						A. Muzzall, Arthur Griggs, Benton Wood, and Miss Ada Griggs. There have been other
						teachers for a longer or shorter time in this school.
					For several years George Krinbill, Jr., now teacher of vocal music in the Public school
						of Red Wing, Minnesota, was chorister in this school.
					T. A. Muzzall has done not a little for several years in building up the material
						interests of the school. Be has been Secretary, Treasurer, a leading singer, as well as
						teacher, and has put his prompt, active, business habits into the life of the
						school.
					Professor O. J. Andrews, Principal for some years of the Crown Point Public school, was
						an active member of this Sunday school.
					In numbers this school has been for many years one of the large schools of the
						county.
					In these forty-seven years of school life additions from time to time have been made to
						the church membership from the classes in the school.

				

				

				

					XVI. BAPTIST SCHOOLS IN CROWN POINT.

					The first school in the Baptist church house at Crown Point was held by T. H. Ball in
						1857.
					Rev. J. Benney became pastor in 1857, but did not continue the school. Rev. A. E.
						Simons became pastor in 1860 and conducted a Baptist school till April 19, 1863. In the
						fall of 1863 the school was reopened by T. H. Ball and continued till 1870. The teachers
						were: Mrs. Ball, Miss Mary Bacon, Mrs. L. G. Bedell, now Dr. Bedell, of Chicago, and
						Mrs. Sarah Robinson. In 1865 three members of the school, and in 1867 ten, became church
						members.
					After 1870 a school was again opened in the church building by Mr. and Mrs. 4.brams and
						Mrs. Whipple.  In 1877 Rev. R. P. Stephenson was pastor,
						and he with others carried on the school.
					In 1880 and afterwards Rev. E. H. Brooks was pastor, and Mr. and Mrs. Osborne and Mrs.
						E. Church were for several years active in this school. The school was transferred from
						East Street to Main Street, after the erection of the brick Baptist church on Main
						Street in 1881, and was kept up here until after the resignation of Rev. L. A. Clevenger
						in, the fall of 1884. It has been revived once or twice since by Mrs. Church Sand
						others, but has not been in session for some considerable time.
					In 1875 was organized in the North Street Baptist church building the North Street
						Sunday school, which school continued till 1888. T. H. Ball was Superintendent. Teachers
						at different times were Mrs. E. Hodson, Mrs. Hartupee, Mrs. Mary Thompson, Miss Georgie
						E. Ball, and constantly Mrs. M. C. C. Ball., In this school was a mission circle which
						sent the first funds from this county to the Foreign Sunday-School Association at
						Brooklyn, New York. Funds were sent to a school at Copenhagen in Denmark and various
						interesting missionary letters were received. A record of two of the members of Mrs.
						Ball's Infant class, who died in 1877, one seven and one six years of age, may be found
						in "Lake of the Red Cedars," pages 285-296. This North Street school was prosperous for
						several years and gave its peculiar training to many children, but finding its mission
						accomplished it was closed in the spring of 1888.
					There has been for the last few years, therefore, no Baptist school in Crown Point.

				

				

				

					XVII. OTHER CROWN POINT SCHOOLS.

					The German Methodist school was organized soon after the erection of their building,
						which was in 1874. It is a true church school, composed of the younger members of the
						church, the school sessions being held before the morning service. As most of the
						members of this church live in the country, they come early as families together, and
						attend the school and then the church services. The school is well conducted. J.
						Knoedler is Superintendent. The school contributes well for missions. As the members so
						largely live in the country, they hold their Christmas tree exercises each year in the
						daytime with darkened windows. These exercises are very interesting. As might be
						expected, this is an evergreen school, and the members are very regular in their
						attendance.
					In the same year, 1874, the German Evangelicals erected a church building and also
						organized a school. Theirs is also a church school, and some of their members come from
						the country. C. Weis has been one of the officers of the school. The exercises of both
						these schools are conducted in the German language.

					

					

						THE FREE METHODIST SCHOOL.

						In 1876, in the summer, and at Ross, a new religious movement commenced in this
							county. An appropriate name is the "Band work." Meetings were held daily at Crown
							Point during most of the winter of 1876 and 18'7. As one result of these meetings a
							church was constituted in 1877, in the North street church building, clled the Band
							church. In October, 1880, the name cosen was the "Union Mission Church" at Crown
						:Not long after, in 1881 or 1882, the church became Methodist. A house for worship
							was erected and  a Sunday school organized. The date of
							organization can not be earlier than 1881. The Superintendents have been, about one
							year each holding office, Rev. T Westerdale, Rev. C. S. Spalding, Miss Phoebe Colby,
							Mrs. F. E. Fessenden, Rev. W. Ferries, Mrs. M. Ross, Mrs. Ida Day, wife of the pastor,
							and Mrs. M. Ross. The school has not been large, but quite prosperous. T. Cleveland,
							Esq., an earnest Christian man, has usually attended this school.
						The "Cheshire Hall" school is peculiar among the schools of the town and county. It
							has three teachers, no officers, no records. It is a Bible school, conducted by a
							congregation of Believers, or Plymnouth Brethren. It is supposed to number about
							twenty.

					

					

					

						Beautiful banners have often been brought by the schools to the annual gatherings.
							Among the banners this year was a new one; a beautiful, small, blue banner, fringed
							with red, on which was this name, THE SCHOOL IN THE WOODS, and this quotation from the Scriptures, "And they shall dwell
							safely in the wilderness, and sleep in the woods." Ez. 34: 25. This school is held in
							a school house, the White school house, sometimes in the shade of the trees without,
							about half way from Crown Point to Cedar Lake, in the midst of that once well-wooded
							region, where sometimes when passing through, in the still and lone night hours, on
							his well-trained steed, the present Superintendent of this school would ride almost
							into a herd of deer; and these, as they bounded swiftly away into the darkness,
							startled themselves, would also for a moment startle the horse and his rider. Long has
							it been since a deer was seen in all those six miles of woods. But now there gather,
							from their homes in the clearings, from American, German, Bohemian families, dear and
							precious little  children, to learn each day "something
							new about Jesus."

					

					

					

						AN EXTRACT.--JANUARY, 1890.

						"One delightful Christmas gathering was held in Lake county, 'in
								the woods,' between Crown Point and Cedar Lake, in the White school house. This
								school was lately organized by the missionary of the American Sunday School Union.
								It is the youngest school in the county. There were present in the school house, on
								Christmas night, eighty persons-fathers and mothers and children; some of the
								children had not before seen Christmas-tree. The tree, procured by the boys, was a
								very fine red cedar. Little children were placed under the tree and the whole was
								illuminated with red chemical light. The tree was beautifully decorated. The
								children received oranges and candy and pictures and little books. Miss May
								Williams, teacher in the public hol in that district, gave valuable aid. The
								exercises seemed to be enjoyed by all."

					

					

				

				

					XVIII. CEDAR LAKE GERMAN METHODIST SCHOOL.

					The pioneer German Methodist west of Cedar Lake was John Beckley, Sr. He made his home
						in the edge of that long strip of West Creek woodland, in which then the deer were so
						abundant, about 1845. He had a quite large family. About 1848 he opened a Sunday school
						in his own house. Other families came in. In 1851 George Krinbill, Sr., made his home in
						that neighborhood. He had a store. As the neighbors were together here, Mr. Beckley
						proposed that they make a "bee," and erect a little log school house. This was done, and
						in about 1852 the school was held in this school house. Other families came. A church
						was constituted, then a church building was erected, and in  1855, perhaps earlier, the school was removed to the church, where for thirty-five
						years it has been kept up. The second Superintendent was George Krinbill, Sr., about
						1850. Superintendent Stitzel was the third, in, perhaps, 1856. Superintendents Rudolph
						and Locker followed. And then at times the pastors of the church wbuld take charge of
						the school. George Krinbill, then. young, now known as Senior, before his removal to ._
						Crown point in 1858, taught singing to. the members of the school; and, as they could
						not well understand the common notes, he taught them by figures. Vocalmusic seems to
						belong to his family line.
					The names of the superintendents of this Cedar Lake German school, for the last few
						years have not been obtained. The school was quite large for several years; the members
						attended the convention anniversary at Crown Point in 1880, singing two pieces, and
						their pastor, Rev. Mr. Doering, giving an address; and they have contributed for the
						county and mission work. So many families have removed of late years that in numbers the
						school has declined. It has been doing good work and valuable in the community and
						county for some forty-two years. Such schools are needed, as forts, as bulwarks, to help
						in holding for the Lord of earth's great battlefield our county and State. Often have we
						sung in various gatherings that stirring battle song, "Hold the Fort."

				

				

				

					XIX. OAK GROVE.

					There are now living in a home by themselves, in the eastern limit of Oak Grove, three
						brothers by the name of Allbright. They are of that family connection that gave the name
						Allbright to what is now called the German Evangelical church: Their date of settlement
						in the grove is 1863. The other members of this family  are
						gone. From these brothers it has been learned that a school was organized here by Lewis
						Guise, and afterwards re-opened and carried on by Mrs. Shafer and their mother, Mrs.
						Allbright, perhaps in 1876. In March, 1880 Mrs. Allbright died.
					Mrs. Shafer left the county and state. The Oak Grove neighborhood was found without any
						school, and with another group of children then living, by a missionary of the American
						Sunday School Union, who organized asa new school, not building on any one's'foundation,
						the present Oak Grove Sunday school, April 1, 1888. Mrs. M.K. Hill was elected
						Superintendent. This family had removed to the grove from the east side of Cedar Lake.
						Mrs. Hill died May 28, 1889, then thirty- five years of age. For a time Miss Jennie
						Sanders was the superintendent, but the difficulties of the situation were too great for
						a girl so young to overcome and the school for several months was closed. In July, 1890,
						it was re-opened, and the enrollment page will show the officers and the membership.
					In this once truly island grove, where is situated a Chicago club-house, "Cumberland
						Lodge," there ought to be a permanent school.

				

				

				

					XX. SHELBY UNION.
					From "OUR BANNER." Extracts.

					"The Shelby Union Sunday school, the first school near the
							Kankakee river in Lake county, the second school south of the marsh "shore" line, was
							organized in its present form July 24, 1887. There were present and taking part in the
							organization, besides those residing at Shelby, two young men, Mr. Adolph Pfender, of
							New York city, and Mr. Melvin A. Brannon, a student from Wabash College,
							Crawfordsville, Indiana. Such young men as these, having their Bibles with them  where they go, ready to aid in Sunday-school work at any
							place, are blessings in any community where they may reside even for a day. One of
							these, Mr. A. Pfender, has for two seasons spent considerable time at Shelby, aiding
							materially this school and one organized in the spring of 1888 at River
						Ridge."
					"Children's Day was duly observed at Shelby on Sunday afternoon,
							June 10th. Some of the girls had provided flowers, some of the beautiful wild flowers
							of that locality, with which to decorate the room, and the beautiful concert exercise,
							entitled "Scattering the Seed," prepared and published by the American Sunday School
							Union, was rehearsed by the school. The collection taken was for the mission work of
							the American Sunday School Union, 'the society that takes care of the children.' Of
							course, thousands of schools observed the same day; hundreds of thousands of children
							brought their offerings. None could appropriate them for the use of a grander society
							or for a nobler work."1888.

					

					

						CHRISTMAS EVE AT SHELBY, 1888.

						"Although the evening was dark and rainy, as it was generally in northwestern
							Indiana, some pleasant hours of the afternoon had been spent by the teachers and some
							of the young people of the school in preparing a tree and loading it for the children,
							and in the evening very pleasant exercises were held. Of course there was singing, and
							other appropriate services were conducted by the Superintendent; a beautiful poem and
							an instructive story were read; some of the children had recitations; and some solos
							were neatly rendered by a temporary resident of Shelby, a man from Scotland, who in
							his native land had heard "the sweetest of all Scotia's holy lays." Songs from the old
							countries and  of the olden times are pleasant amid the
							freshness of our new life. Those representing at least four nationalities could
							rejoice for the Christmas time and for the gift long ago of the Bethlehem Babe. The
							young men and the young ladies of this Shelby school deserve praise for their hearty
							efforts in aiding to sustain public worship, and the probability is that they will
							soon take steps towards securing a permanent place for a Sunday-school home."

					

					

					
						APRIL, 1889.

						"Present officers: Superintendent, T. H. Ball; Secretary, Miss Ida Gorde; Treasurer,
							Miss Jennie Larson; Librarian, Miss H. Lange. Trustees elected March 18, 1889, R.
							Fuller, G. Peterson, J. Lange, J. W. Cox, and B. Erickson.
						A lot has been promised to the school by the President of the Lake Agricultural
							Company, Mr. W. R. Shelby, of Grand Rapids, Michigan, and it is expected that the
							Committee to solicit funds for the erection of a building will soon be ready for their
							work."

					

				

				

					XXI. ROBINSON PRAIRIE UNION SCHOOL.

					Of all our schools, this one alone, situated near the south part of the large prairie
						area of the county, has perpetuated the name at first given to this wide prairie, the
						name of the founder of Crown Point, Solon Robinson; a name that may fade out entirely
						from the prairie to which it was given, but which will always remain in the true annals
						of Lake county.
					This school was organized as early as 1870, perhaps earlier, by Mr. John Bates. The
						members of this family had more than ordinary musical talent. The son, Kossuth Bates,
						played on an instrument which he took to the school house; the daughter, Miss Alice, was
							 a very good child vocalist; and, aided by Miss Jennie
						Fuller; now Mrs. Dickinson, then a young girl; by Miss Mary Wood, now Mrs. Gregg; Miss
						Ida Foote, now Mrs. Tillotson; Miss Annie Wimple, and Mary Tilton, and others, the
						singing in this school was excellent. For a few years the school was prosperous, Mr.
						Warner and his family taking a large interest in it, and all in the neighborhood giving
						it good support.
					T. H. Ball, who has, at different times, been superintendent of eight schools in this
						county, conducted this school one season. Some of the young members then were, besides
						those already named, Ida Crawford, Ella McCann (not now living), Etta Warner, Ella
						Warner, Rhoda Antrim, Lydia Antrim, Adelaide Fuller, Emily Fuller, and others who were
						still younger children. F. A. Ewer was active in helping to keep up this school, Here,
						as in many other neighborhoods, family changes came. There is here now only a small
						Lutheran school.

					

					Of one of the little German Lutheran children the following extract is a memorial. The
						year is 1889:

					

						THE UNSEEN MESSENGERS.

						Dora Seegers, a winsome little girl, eight years of age, was on Thursday, July 18,
							suddenly called away from earth, called up to the other world. Her father's home is
							about nine miles southeastward from Crown Point, in Lake county, Indiana. Her father
							and his men were at work in the hay field, to them she was carrying water from the
							house. Northward it was cloudy and rather dark. At Crown Point it was raining. But it
							was not cloudy to any extent over that locality. A small cloud was observed over the
							head of the young child as she drew near to the men in the field, and, as they were
							very thirsty, her father called to her that she  might
							hasten a little her brisk footsteps. It was his last call to her; for her other
							Father, the great and good Father, whose claims and rights are first, also called her.
							Forth from that little cloud the quick lightning flashed, but the men observed it not.
							The next instant they heard the thunder crash and saw their little water bearer fallen
							on the earth. In a moment or two more, for she was not far away, that father raised
							from the ground the dear young form, but the other unseen messenger, God's good angel,
							was even then bearing upward the soul of little Dora.
						The lightning flash, strangely unseen, had separated soul and body, and what the
							sorrowful father raised from the ground was only a lifeless form. God has many ways in
							which to call His children home. Sometimes it is diphtheria, sometimes the typhoid
							fever, sometimes the scarlet fever, and many other forms of what we call disease.
							Sometimes it is water; sometimes wind; sometimes the gun or pistol shot; sometimes the
							railroad crash; sometimes the lightning's flash. All are equally and alike under God's
							control, held firmly by His own strong hand. And not one electric spark can flash
							beyond His permission. He, without whose notice and care not one sparrow falls on the
							ground, was then watching little Dora as she started from the well with the water. He
							knew of that little cloud and the lightning hid away in its foldings. He cared for
							Dora and took care of her. Does any child ask, "Why did God permit little Dora to come
							under that cloud just then?" Why? Why did He permit the gunshot that took the life of
							a little girl? Why did He permit the diphtheria to take all the children and darken a
							bright home? Why does he permit the measles, and the scarlet fever, and the typhoid?
							Why does H permit any little child to suffer, any little child  to die? We need not ask "Why? "to God. "What?" is generally the form of the
							question which it is proper to ask of Him. "What is this lesson for me? What is my
							duty? What shall I do? What is Thy will concerning me?" Let us leave the "Whys?" for a
							future explanation, and rest now lovingly, trustingly, in the hands of that great and
							good Father, without whose action or permission not one event on earth takes place.
							Children have died in various ways in the county of Lake, but very seldom has one
							fallen to the earth beneath the lightning's flash. None are more safe here than birds
							and little children.
						A family pictured group, the picture but recently taken by the artist; may be seen in
							the home of the Seegers' family. It is a fine picture. And as little Dora stands there
							in her meek child innocence, so trustingly beside her father, she will stand no more.
							The pictured image of herself will remain; the living reality has passed out of this
							life.


						

							DORA.

						

					

				

				

				

					XXII. THE LE ROY UNION.

					This school most probably was cdmmenced by Dr. W. B. Anderson, who resided for a time
						at Le Roy as a physician. He was an active Christian man, and zealous in the
						Sunday-school cause. The school was reported in 1875 and may have been organized in
						1874. It soon became quite a strong and prosperous school. It was a union of United
						Presbyterians, Reformed Presbyterians, and Methodists.
					Dr. Anderson soon left the county, and the school was kept up by the families in the
						neighborhood around Le Roy. The school house was large, central, and quite well seated.
						Active in the school, as officers, teachers, and scholars, were members of the McKnight,
						Love, Baldwin, Wilson, Ross, Turner, Thompson, Stewart, Gibbs, and Nethery families. And
						this is not a full list of names.
					At length the time came for the erection of two church buildings in Le Roy, and then
						the school was divided. The Methodists occupying their house in 1888, all united for a
						time in the school there. In April, 1889, a United Presbyterian school was opened in the
						Presbyterian house, the other school becoming Methodist Episcopal. Both schools have
						been prosperous.

				

				

				

					XXIII. EAGLE CREEK SCHOOLS.

					The date, "about 1860," is assigned, in the annual report, for te organization of the
						first school at Eagle Creek. In those years the lower Eagle Creek school house was a
						center for quite a large community. In the five months of the year 1862 a Baptist church
						was gathered there of sixty-four members, forty-four being there and then baptized. A
						Sabbath school should have prospered. "The ingathering was rapid; the young men went
						into the army; the pastor went as  chaplain; growth
						ceased." In 1868 eleven of those sixty-four were found; but in 1872 twenty-five are
						found still in Sunday school. The only name yet secured for a superintendent here is
						that of E. M. Robertson. The Fisher, Sarjeant, Ludy and several other families must have
						been interested in this school. When it was closed is not known.
					The present Eagle Creek school, organized as a new school in 1888, has been doing a
						good work.

				

				

				

					XXIV. THE HURLBURT SCHOOL.

					In the western part of Porter county, near Blackley's Corners, has resided for many
						years a zealous and faithful Sunday-school worker, ISAAC HARDESTY; and not far from him resided his friend and fellow-laborer
						know as DEACON PECK. These both aided in keeping
						up several schools near" the county line, and finding a neighborhood in Lake county
						without a school, one, if not both, of them came one mile within our borders and
						established one. These men were members of the farming community. They were in good
						circumstances. They were stout, heavy-built men, and then in middle age. They sought the
						good of the people. They were patriotic. They believed in the Bible teachings, and were
						sure those teachings would benefit every neighborhood. They could sing, and pray, and
						teach. They became true Sabbath-school men. Associated with them was DAVID HARDESTY. In what year they organized the Hurlburt
						school, Mr. Hardesty, who is still living, can not now tell. Quite surely before 1870.
						Perhaps in 1867. The writer of this record, on his first visit to the school, found two
						of these noble workers carrying it on. In 1872 the school numbered about fifty members.
						A young man grew up in the neighborhood, MICHAEL WAHL, and he was induced at  length to act as
						Superintendent. He has been kept in the office for many years. The school has grown to
						be the largest country school in the county, and only one or two town schools exceed it
						in numbers. Two of the sons of the Peck family, themselves men of middle age now, are,
						with their children, interested in the school. The names of the families of the
						neighborhood sustaining this school will be found in the enrollment list. The school
						owns an organ and has quite a large and new library. Some further mention of this school
						will be found in the Convention records. It has been up to this time a Union school.
					NOTE.--It is but justice to state that a note from the present
						Superintendent, M. Wahl, says: "The first school was organized at Hurlburt's corner as
						early as 1856 or 1858." He says it was organized by Orrin Peck, that John L Riecker
						succeeded him and had charge about four years, till 1883, since which time he has
						himself had charge of the school.

				

				

				

					XXV. SUNDAY SCHOOLS AT ROSS.

					In September of the year 1852 Rev. George Woodbridge removed with his family from Crown
						Point to Ross station. The Michigan Central railroad had been running trains on the
						newly constructed Joliet cut-off but a short time, and the station agent there was Mr.
						-- Wheeler. Mr. Amos Hornor became a resident in Ross in 1853. The railroad agent, who
						was different, surely, from many railroad men, organized here the first Sunday school,
						probably in 1853. Mr. A. Hornor, probably, was the second Superintendent. The custom
						was, for a time, to have Sabbath preaching every other morningg at seven o'clock, and
						Bible class and prayer meeting every Sunday at four P. M. Mr. Wheeler, Mr. Hornor, and
						.Rev. G. Woodbridge took turns in conducting the prayer meetings. Soon Mrs. Woodbridge
						became Superintendent, and she and Mrs.  J. Muzzall, then
						Miss Irish, carried on the school. They raised over $20 in money and obtained a good
						library. The death of a relative, Mrs. Humphrey, called Mrs. Woodbridge away, and this,
						which had been a Union school, was for a time closed. While carried on by Mrs.
						Woodbridge and Mrs. Muzzall the school was evergreen.
					A school was again opened at Ross by Rev. Mr. Bacon and Rev. Mr. Rutherford, of the
						United Brethren Church. These made it a denominational school. The United Brethren
						school did not continue long, and then the school was reorganized, again Union, A.
						Hornor, Superintendent. About 1877 Eugene Kongright was elected, again A. Hornor, and
						then L. T. Loucks. In 1878 a church building was erected and the school was held there.
						After the Band organization at Ross became a Congregational church, the school became
						denominational, and Mrs. N. C. Gallagher has since had charge of the school. The present
						membership is forty-five. This school was noted at the "twenty-fifth anniversary," on
						the street and at the Fair Ground, for its fine appearance. After returning home from
						the anniversary, the school sent $4 to the missionary of the county for his special
						mission work, a contribution which he thoroughly appreciated.
					This has been for several years an evergreen school.
					An interesting institute was held here December 2 and 3, 1887, the children of the
						public school and of the Sunday school having been then diligently trained by Miss Lida
						Smith and entering heartily into the institute exercises.
				

				

					THE DEEP RIVER OR WOODVALE SCHOOL.
					This school was organized in August, 1888, by the evangelist "Christian" minister of
						this district, Rev. Ellis B. Cross. First Superintendent, R. C. Mackey;  second, William Prichett; third, George Billings; fourth,
						Charles Longshore; fifth, B. H. Wood. The school is prospering.
				

				

					SCHOOLS OF 1888.

					This year is noted for the number of new schools. Some of these are mentioned
						elsewhere, but a brief notice of organization is inserted here, taken from OUR BANNER for the most part.

					

						The Bruce Union school was organized February 5, 1888. Classes, 4. Enrolled, 27.
							Rev. J. Bruce, Superintendent; Miss Lois Kaplin, Secretary; Miss Mirtie Hayden,
							Treasurer.
						The Oak Grove Union school was organized April 1, 1888. Classes, 3. Members,
							20.
						 The Morrison school was organized April 15, 1888. William Gibbs, of Hebron,
							Superintendent. Number of members, 30.
						 The Eagle Creek Union school was organized April 22, 1888. Palmer Temple,
							Superintendent. Classes, 7. Enrolled, 43. Secretary, Miss Maggie Ludy.
						 River Ridge Union school opened May 20, 1888, more fully organized May 27. Mrs.
							Eva Latta, Superintendent; Miss Lettie Stowell, Secretary; Miss Hattie Gale,
							Librarian; George Stowell, Treasurer.
						 The Sand Ridge school was organized May 27, 1888. Superintendent, Amos
							Hornor.
						 In June, 1888, was organized the Episcopal schoo1 at Hammond.
						 August, 1888, was organized the Deep River Union school, by Rev. Ellis B.
							Cross.
						 In November, 1888, was organized the East Chicago Methodist school. At a few
								of these localities there have been schools ion past years, but these are all
								essentially new schools.
						
						 "On Sunday, December 23, 1888, was organized  at
							Hammond the Hammond Christian Sunday school. Superintendent, J. L. Adams; Secretary,
							Mrs. M. E. Burrows. Classes, three. No. [of members] twenty."

					

				

				

				

					SHEFFIELD OR ROBERTSDALE.

					In 1884 a school was held in the northwestern school house of the county, conducted by
						Miss Minnie Chapman (now Mrs. Jenks, of Illinois), then a Lake county girl and a public
						school teacher. This was called the Sheffield school. The first school house was very
						near the shore of Lake Michigan, sheltered by trees and by sand ridges. In the summer it
						was a pleasant, secluded spot for the gathering of the few children who met there, the
						clear waters of the lake washing a beach of pure, white sand only a few rods away. The
						present school house is further away from the great lake.

				

				

				

					LAKE GEORGE SCHOOL.

					A few years ago comparatively few families were living in the north part of North
						township. South of Whiting Station, near the eastern shore of Lake George, called on the
						map of 1873 Berry Lake, was kept up for a short time a little neighborhood Sunday
						school, conducted by Mr. Gallagher, now living near Ross. The Secretary of the county
						Union, in his visits to the school, once reached this then secluded place in the wilds
						of our old North township, little thinking that in a few years one of the great oil
						refineries of the world would, gather so many people within that one square mile of
						surface.
					At the time of this writing it is claimed that there are in Whiting, a town built up by
						the Standard Oil Company, in round numbers, "1,700 men" and "700 women," and that "some
						45 houses are in process of  construction." To look at the
						oil tanks in hundreds and at the buildings there, at the rows of neat dwelling houses,
						at the church and Sunday-school life, one would think that the, days of the GALLAGHER Lake George Sunday school must have been half way back to the
						old Indian times. Improvement of some kinds is is makingg here the real giant
						strides.

				

				

				

					THE HAMMOND SCHOOLS.

					Settlements were not made very early along the Calumet and the State line, where is now
						the city of Hammond. A few families, among them the Hohman, Sohl, Drecker, Miller,
						Goodman, and Wolf families, found homes there between 1850 and 1865. About 1869 the
						George H. Hammond Company located a slaughter house here and commenced shipping beef to
						Eastern, and soon to Foreign, markets. Families from New England connected with this new
						enterprise made homes in this locality, and in 1872 they organized a Sunday school in a
						small school house near the Calumet river. The officers were: M. M. Towle,
						Superintendent; Miss Dow, now Mrs. C. C. Smith, Secretary; Miss Louisa Sohl, now Mrs.
						Beall, Treasurer. And these, with Mrs. M. M. Towle, were the teachers. Religious
						services were also held at the school house (Hammond has now its third school house);
						Brother Williams, a farmer, who became a student at Evanston, also afterwards, Brother
						Baker, from Evanston, aiding in the school and preaching to the people. The school
						increased in numbers as the group of clustered families grew into a town, and the
						locality was changed to the second school house. Here the school was re-organized in
						1879, by Porter B. Towle, now a well-known editor and newspaper publisher in the city of
						Hammond, having then just come into Lake county from Massachusetts,  and taking an active interest in Sunday-school work, and in giving literary
						and moral lectures. By him the school was kept up at the school house until it was
						removed in 1880 to the Union chapel that was erected. There the school was continued, as
						it had been carried on at the school house, being the one Sunday school of Hammond,
						others also aiding in the school, among them A. A. Winslow and Mrs. Winslow. In 1882 a
						Methodist church organization was perfected, and the next year a church building was
						erected, dedicated in December, 1883, where the school has since been held, as the
						Methodist Episcopal school of Hammond. A. A. Winslow, editor of the Hammond Tribune, and F. H. Tuthill, have been the superintendents. Mrs. Dr. Vandewalker
						has been one of the active and earnest teachers, and Miss Alice Sohl has had charge much
						of the time of the infant class. This has become, by far, the largest class of little
						children, and this school the largest school in the county.
					October 2, 1887, was organized the "Hammond Congregational Sunday school." Officers
						then: Superintendent, J. B. Guthrie; Assistant, Mrs. E. C. Gero; Librarian, Mrs. P. B.
						Towle; Secretary and Treasurer, Mrs. W. Gostlin. "The meetings have been held in the
						rink, but are now to be in the city court room." "Now" is November, 1887.
					 "A third Sunday school was organized October 16th, with six
							classes and some thirty scholars. W. R. Jones, Superintendent; Mrs. P. B. Towle,
							Assistant Superintendent; Miss Lesta Jones, Secretary. This is called the Hammond
							North Side Congregational school."
					This school was held in the home of Brother E. R. Williams, through the first winter,
						in two very pleasant rooms, kindly furnished by this pleasant, Christian, Americanized,
						Welch family. Brother Williams soon  became the leader of
						the school, and its name was slightly changed. Editor P. B. Towle, Miss Ousley, J. B.
						Guthrie, and others took an active interest in both these schools. The number in the
						north side school increased, and a chapel room was built, adjoining the Williams home,
						which became the Sunday-school home. The school has manifested a vigorous life. Eighty
						members were reported this year, and now a Congregational church building has been
						erected, to be, perhaps for years, the assembling place for this school, its third home
						spot. An excellent religious or Christian spirit seems to prevail in this school. A
						grand mission work it may yet accomplish.
					"A fourth school was organized November 13th, with about twenty
							scholars. C. D. Varney, Superintendent; Miss Clara Irish, Assistant; C. J. Gillett,
							Secretary and Treasurer. This is a Baptist school, at present the second Baptist
							school in Lake county."
					The above is a journal record of the organization of the present Baptist school of
						Hammond. For some time the school sessions were held in a hall. In 1888 a church
						building was erected, in which, since then, the school, with a large increase in
						numbers, has been held.
					The Episcopalian school, known as St. Paul's Mission Sunday school, was opened in June,
						1888. Of course the members of this school do not use the International Series of
						Lessons, but study the lessons of the churoh year, Those who know the forms of worship
						of this church, of which this is the only Sunday school in county, need not to be
						reminded that in this school observances which are impressive and attractive.
					In this same year of 1888 was organized a "Christian" Sunday school. A church of this
						denomination, the Hammond Christian church, was organized December  23, 1888, by Rev. Ellis B. Cross, with twenty-four members. The school
						numbered sixty members, but having no house for worship, and rents being high in that
						young, growing city, financial reasons caused a discontinuance of the school. It was
						re-organized December 21, 1890. Superintendent, -- Wilson; Secretary, H. E. Ball;
						Treasurer, Mrs. Isaac Hammond.
					A German Methodist school was organized as early as 1883, and conducted for a time in
						the Hammond Methodist church; but this school, small, yet pleasant and for a time
						prosperous, was discontinued. The present school was organized after the German
						Methodist house of worship was erected in 1889, and it is a growing, prosperous
						school.
					The Plymouth Congregational school, taking, in some sort, the place of the South Side
						Congregational school, was organized in the summer of 1890. It is, therefore, a new
						school. As the church with which this school is connected has erected this year a house
						for religious worship, the school may be expected to continue, to grow, and to be an
						instrumentality for good in the coming years.

				

				

				

					EAST CHICAGO SCHOOLS.

					The first family making a home in what is now quite widely known as East Chicago was
						the family of Mr. Penman. Mrs. Penman came August 2, 1888. Now East Chicago has three
						church buildings, one hundred and sixty-four children were enumerated in May last, and
						already the place has the appearance of a city. In a region of remarkable growth its own
						growth has been surprising.
					The East Chicago Methodist Episcopal school was organized in November, 1888. Its
						membership is about thirty. Superintendent, Mrs. J. V. Richardson.

					

					The East Chicago Congregational school was organized in November, 1889. Membership
						about forty. Superintendent, L. T. Loucks.

				

				

				

					WHITING.

					At Whiting, on Easter Sunday, 1890, was organized the Plymouth Congregational Sunday
						school. In this Standard Oil Company young city there will surely soon be room and need
						for more.

				

				

				

					LAKE COUNTY SUNDAY SCHOOL CONVENTION.

					Having finished our anniversary review of the schools of the county, let us listen to a
						brief rehearsal concerning the county organization.
					The County Union, called Convention, was organized at Crown Point, September 16, 1865.
						Those taking an active part in the organization were, Rev. J. L. Lower, Rev. R. B.
						Young, Rev. T. H. Ball, perhaps a few F others, of Crown Point; Judge Ball, of Cedar
						Lake; H. B. Austin and M. A. Halted, of Lowell. The first officers were: Hervey Ball,
						President; Rev. R. B. Young, Vice-president; Rev. J. L. Lower, Secretary, and M. A.
						Halsted, Treasurer.

					

						PLACES OF MEETING.

						
							1866, Lowell.
							1867, Crown Point.
							1868, Crown Point.
							1869, Crown Point.
							1870, Plum Grove.
							1871, Lowell.
							1872, Crown Point.
							1873, Crown Point.
							1874, South East Grove.
							1875, Crown Point.
							1876, Crown Point.
							1877, Lowell.
							1878, Crown Point.
							1879, Cedar Lake.
							1880, Crown Point.
							1881, Cedar Lake.
							1882, Lowell.
							1883, Crown Point.
							1884, Crown Point.
							1885, Hammond.
							1886, Lowell.
							1887, Lake Station.
							1888, Hobart.
							1889, Crown Point.
							1890, Crown Point.
						

					

					

					

						CONSTITUTION.

						ARTICLE 1. This organization shall be called the Lake County
							Sabbath School Convention.
						ART. 2. Its object shall be the promotion of the cause of Sabbath
							schools by endeavoring to awaken a greater interest in the religious instruction of
							youth, and by bringing the friends of the cause more fully together for co-operation
							in their efforts.
						ART. 3. The members shall be the pastors, and the officers and
							teachers of the Sabbath schools of the county who act with the Convention.
						ART. 4. The officers shall be a President, a Vice- President in
							each township, a Secretary, and a Treasurer, to be chosen at each annual meeting.
						ART. 5. The Convention shall hold annually on the last Wednesday
							in August a celebration at such place as may be designated from year to year, to which
							celebration all the schools shall be invited, whether or not represented in this
							organization.
						ART. 6. There shall be an Executive Committee of three appointed
							each year to provide speakers for the annual meeting, and attend to such other duties
							as may promote the interests of the Sunday-school cause.
						ART. 7. A Committee of Arrangements shall be appointed to prepare
							grounds and take the charge thereof at each celebration.
						ART. 8. Quarterly meetings shall be held in different parts of the
							county in February, May, and November, at which the Vice-president for the township in
							which such meeting is held shall preside, and for which the Superintendent of the
							school with which held shall arrange exercises.

					

				

				

				

					PRESIDENTS OF THE LAKE COUNTY SUNDAY- SCHOOL CONVENTION FROM
						1865 TO 1890.

					BY MISS ELLEN LITTLE.

					Judge Hervey Ball, the first President of the Lake County Sunday School Convention, was
						elected to that office at the first meeting of the Convention, September 16, 1865, that
						meeting being held, as this one is, at the  county seat. A
						better presiding officer could not have been chosen, Judge Ball being a man of
						education, refinement, and ability, a lawyer of no small caliber, and an earnest
						Christian worker. He was a native of Massachusetts, but in 1837, with his family of
						little ones, he came West and took up land on the west side of Cedar Lake. The country
						was new at that time, and men of learning and ability were in great demand. School
						advantages were limited, and for this reason the Judge and his accomplished wife decided
						to open a private school for their own and the children of other settlers.
					In 1840 the Cedar Lake Sunday school was organized, with Judge Ball for Superintendent.
						He was the first and only Clerk of the Cedar Lake Baptist Church, the Clerk and
						Moderator of the Northern Indiana Baptist Association, a Trustee of Franklin College,
						Judge of the Probate Court, President of the Agricultural Society, Master of a Masonic
						Lodge, and an officer in the Good Templars' Lodge.
					He possessed an excellent library, which he generously threw open to the youth around
						him. On account of his health he was obliged to decline a second re-election in 1867,
						and in a little more than a year afterward, when nearly seventy-four years of age, he
						passed to his long home, his life having been most salutary in its impression upon those
						with whom he mingled.
					Rev. Hiram Wason, of Lake Prairie, was the second man to be elected President of the
						Convention, which position he held from 1867 to 1872.
					Mr. Wason was born in New Boston, N. H., in 1814. He was a graduate of Amherst. In
						1857, after a long paatorate at Vevay, Ind., he removed to Lake county, and for seven
						years acted as pastor of the Lake Prairie Presbyterian Church, during which time
						twenty-three added to that church by profession of faith and  thirty-one by letter. He was also Superintendent of the Sunday school, which, under
						his efficient leadership, became one of the largest and most prosperous in the
						county.
					He was a member of the State Legislature during '67 and '68. To him belongs the credit
						of securing the passage of a bill by which the township trustee may be allowed to draw a
						tax of 25 cents on $100 for school purposes. Since the close of his ministry at Lake
						Prairie he has continued to live upon his farm in that place, and now, though well along
						in the seventies, he is still a regular attendant of the Sabbath school and a willing
						witness to the truth and beauty of the Christian religion.
					Rev. R. B. Young, after having served as Vice- president of the Convention seven years,
						was in 1872 elected President and served one term. Mr. Young came into Lake county in
						1853 as a circuit preacher. After being on the circuit one year he settled in Crown
						Point where he opened a drug store. In 1861 he was the preacher at Crown Point and in
						1872 preacher at Lowell. He was a man of strong temperance and religious principles, and
						very active for his age. He died April 24, 1879, being at the time of his death seventy-
						five years of age.
					The fourth president of the Convention, for the years '73 and '74, was Rev. Dr. S.
						Fleming, pastor of the Presbyterian church in Crown Point. He died in Michigan a few
						years ago, age and date of death unknown.
					"Died at his home in Crown Point, Ind., February 14, 1890, David Turner, aged 73 years,
						1 month and 28 days." Judge Turner, concerning whom this notice was given in a February
						number of the "Star," was President of the S. S. Convention for the year '74 and '75.
							 He was born in Ohio, but in early youth removed to this
						county, with his parents. The pioneer of those early days had few of the advantages of a
						Lake county boy of '90, and so the education of young David was acquired mostly by wise
						home training and by personal investigation of those subjects which his thirst for
						knowledge led him to study without a teacher. He held in succession the positions of
						probate judge, county representative, State senator and assessor of internal revenues.
						His political career was marked by a purity of motive and action which may well serve as
						a model to the youth of our county. His character can, perhaps, be best expressed when
						we say that he passed his earthly pilgrimage, "doing justly, loving mercy, and walking
						humbly with his God."
					Mr. Hugh Boyd, presiding officer from 1875 to 1877, came to Lake county in 1865, and in
						1874 purchased the farm near Southeast Grove where he now resides. Mr. Boyd has paid
						considerable attention to dairying. He has served as township trustee two terms and for
						several years has been superintendent of the Southeast Grove S. S. He is a Presbyterian
						and a man of stanch principles.
					To John L. Worley, of Lowell, belongs the honor of serving the convention as president
						for the longest term of years, from 1877 to 1886, when he declined another re-election.
						Also he is the first native born of the State to hold that position, his birthplace
						being near Union City, and the date of his birth being April 28, 1820. His education in
						the school room was limited, as that of many of his companions, but this deficiency was
						remedied by private exertions. Coming to Lake county in 1839, and, therefore, one of its
						pioneers, he entered the tract of land where he now lives, several miles south of
						Lowell.

					

					He has been a prominent member of the Christian Church at Lowell and an enthusiastic
						Sabbath-school worker and teacher. Mr. Worley has also gained quite a reputation as
						local preacher:
					Mr. A. A. Winslow, of Hammond, presiding officer for the year 1886 and '87, was the
						first of the second generation of Sabbath-school workers, as also the first native of
						Lake county to hold that office. His boyhood home was Crown Point. After spending a
						number of years in the capacity of a public school teacher, he entered upon his career
						as editor and publisher and settled in Hammond. At the time of his presidency the
						Hammond Methodist S. S., of which he was Superintendent, was the largest in the county.
						He has always been a faithful teacher, and the school has shown its confidence in his
						abilities by electing him again as Superintendent.
					Our present presiding officer, Mr. Cyrus F. Dickinson, of Lowell, has held the position
						since 1887. He is a member of the Christian Church, and Superintendent of the Lowell
						Union S. S. He is well known as a man well versed in music and, as such, has often added
						to the interest of our conventions.
					These are our nine presidents, and though they have been men of diverse vocations and
						of various religious denominations, in regard to the Sunday-school work they have been
						as one.

				

				

				

					OFFICERS OF THE CONVENTION--A SUMMARY.

					

						PRESIDENTS.

						 Judge Hervey Ball, 1865-1867. Died October 13, 1868, nearly seventy-four years of
							age.
						 Rev. H. Wason, 1867-1872.
						 Rev. R. B. Young, 1872-1873. Died April 24, 1879, seventy-five years of
							age.
						
						 Rev. Dr. Fleming, 1873-1874. Died in Michigan, age unknown.
						 Judge David Turner, 1874-1875. Died February 14, 1890, seventy-three years of
							age.
						 H. Boyd, 1875-1877.
						 J. L. Worley, 1877-1886.
						 A. A. Winslow, 1886-1887.
						 Cyrus F. Dickinson, 1887-1890.
					

					
						VICE-PRESIDENTS.
						 Rev. R. B. Young, 1865-1867.
						 Rev. R. B. Young, Rev. John Bruce, Rev. B. Wells, Dr. A. Brownell, H. Meyer, J.
							S. Sanders, H. B. Austin, 1867-1869.
						 Rev. R. B. Young, 1869-1872.
						 O. R. Spencer, J. Underwood, C. L. Hannaman, J. S. Sanders, H. Frevert, Rev. H.
							Wason, G. W. Handley, E. M. Robertson, 1872-1873.
						 Rev. H. Wason, J. L. Worley, 1873-1874.
						 Rev. H. Wason, Rev. J. Bruce, 1874-1875.
						 Dr. W. B. Anderson, 1875-1877.
						 No record, 1877-1881.
						 Rev. J. H. Dueringer, J. Curtis, Mrs. M. J. Dinwiddie, Orson Bacon, H. Farmer, H.
							Meyer, Amos Hornor, Mrs. S. Kean, A. A. Winslow, 1881-1884.
						 Rev. H. Wason, 1884-1886.
						 Cyrus F. Dickinson, 1886-1887.
						 T. E. Lincoln, 1887-1888.
						 Michael Wahl, 1888-1890.
					

					When several were elected, one was for each township. In 1884 or 1885, the title was
						changed and these were called Presidents.
					TOWNSHIP PRESIDENTS.
					Elected as early as 1885 and re-elected up to 1890: North, Mrs. Dr. Vandewalker;
						Calumet, L. T. Loucks;  Hobart, Mrs. S. K. Rice; Ross,
						Mrs. M. J. Hyde; St. Johns, Mrs. A. Davis; Hanover, A. Einspahr; Center, Mrs. S. G.
						Wood; Winfield, J. P. Baldwin; Eagle Creek, M. Nichols; Cedar Creek, H. Dickinson; West
						Creek, Lewis G. Little.

					
						SECRETARIES.
						 Rev. J. L. Lower, 1865-1866.
						 Rev. T. H. Ball, 1866-1877.
						 Prof. O. J. Andrews, 1877-1879.
						 Rev. T. H. Ball, 1879-1890.
						 Rev. L. W. A. Luckey, 1890.
					

					
						TREASURERS.
						M. A. Halsted.
						M. L. Barber.
						Rev. Ii. Wason, 1879-1884.
						Perry Jones, 1884-1888.
						F. H. Tuthill, 1888-1890.
						Perry Jones, 1890.
					

					So far as known the first Sunday-school celebration of the county was held at Crown
						Point about 1847. Another was held.at Crown Point in 1854. This gathering was not what
						would now be called large, as the schools all met within the walls of the Presbyterian
						church. There were five banners then present and "several small schools," among which
						was the Plum Grove school, all meeting with the UnionSunday school of Crown Point. But
						two names can with certainty be given of those then present--Rev. William Townley, of
						Crown Point, and Mrs. M; J. Dinwiddie, of Plum Grove.
					With her were some of the children of that school who are now, probably, men and women
						somewhere in the land.
					A third was held at Lowell, in 1863, of which mention 
						has been made. The fourth was at Crown Point in 1864. The fifth was at Cedar Lake, in
						1865. And soon after this very pleasant celebration the county organization was formed
						and anniversary meetings began to be held.

				

				

					EXTRACTS FROM CONVENTION RECORDS.

					These are taken, mainly, from "Lake County, 1884," a book now "out of print," scarce a
						copy of which could be obtained "for love or money;" and as many of the present and
						future Sunday-school members in the county can have no access to copies of that work, a
						few extracts are inserted here.

					Second Anniversary, 1867:
					"Thirteen schools reported, twelve of them more or less fully
							represented on the ground. Among these, the Lowell Union reported by far the largest
							number of scholars; the Lake Prairie school, the largest number of church members; the
							Lake Prairie and Methodist Episcopal of Crown Point, the largest number of volumes;
							the Crown Point Baptist school, the largest number of conversions during the year. The
							Orchard Grove and Lowell schools displayed upon the grounds the most showy banners.
							The Plum Grove school with its four-horse team, banner, and 'stars and stripes,'
							appeared on the street as the strongest force."
					The first annual report which was now made, August, 1867, gave the following: Sixteen
						schools in the county, thirteen reported. Of these, three were Methodist, one was
						Presbyterian, one Independent Presbyterian, one Baptist, seven Union. Number of
						teachers, 110; scholars, 790; volumes in libraries, 2,020; died in the year, 6;
						converted, 32; church members, 133; inhabitants in the county, 9,145; school children
						enumerated, 3,588; Number of school districts, 80.

					

					Fourth Anniversary, 1869:
					"E. Payson Porter, of Chicago, was present, and by request spoke concerning the
						Newsboys' and Bootblacks' Mission, of Chicago."
					"The three Grove schools, Orchard, Plum, and South East, seem deserving of special
						notice for their four-horse teams, banners, and large representations."

					Fifth Anniversary, August 31, 1870, at Plum Grove:
					"The gathering at Plum Grove was very large. Thirty schools were reported and thirty,
						places of Protestant Sabbath preaching."

					Seventh Anniversary:
					"For the first time a dark and rairly morning. The Secretary
							reported that he had, between September 3d of last year, and August 25th of this year,
							visited nearly all the schools of the county. He reported in Deer Creek school fifteen
							conversions."

					Eighth Anniversary:
					"The Secretary reported twenty-seven schools and whole number of members 1,162."

					Tenth Anniversary:
					"Thirty schools reported."
					"The Le Roy Union school from Cassville arrived first in Crown
							Point. Soon after came the Plum Grove and Robinson prairie schools. Next in order
							arrived the South East Grove and Center schools. These schools came in strong force,
							the Le Roy school procession led by a six-horse team, the Plum Grove banner wagon
							being drawn by four horses and carrying twenty-four persons, the Prairie school having
							two four- horse teams."

					Fifteenth Anniversary, 1880:
					As this year was celebrated by the Sunday-school world as their first hundredth year,
						the following from the Secretary's book is inserted in full:

					

					

						ANNIVERSARY EXERCISES OF THE CENTENNIAL YEAR.

						The following was the order of exercises at the North Street Concert Monday evening,
							August 23.

						

							 Opening words, among .which the Saviour's teachings from the lilies and the
								birds were named. A beautiful lily, from the green-house, of the variety called
								amaryllis, with five powers in full bloom, with large bouquets of beautiful flowers,
								adorned the room.
							 Prayer.
							 Swinging.
							 A Scripture exercise, Ps. 136 and 107 read by four voices.
							 A recitation by Miss Addie R. Woodard, "The Old Story."
							 A poem read by Miss Cynthia Wood, "Coming."
							 Singing.
							 An article from the Sunday-school Times, "Tempted to give up, " read by Rev. T.
								H. Ball.
							 A .recitation by Miss Alice Palmer, "The Land of Light."
							 A recitation by Miss Ella Clay, "All in Bloom."
							11. A song by Miss May Saylor.
							12. Recitation by Miss G. E. Ball, "The Seen and Unseen."
							13. Singing.
						

						Closed with prayer by Rev. O. C. Haskell,
						A good and appreciative audience was present; and the exercises, occupying one hour
							and a quarter, were of choice selections, well prepared and well rendered.
					

					
						TUESDAY AFTERNOON EXERCISES.
						A number met for Sunday-school institute work at the M. E. church.
						The President of the County Convention, J. L. Worley, occupied the chair. Rev. H.
							Sheeley, pastor of the Presbyterian church of Lake Prairie, was present;  also Mrs. Dinwiddie and Miss Mary Dinwiddie from Plum
							Grove. Three of the schools in Crown Point were represented by teachers present. After
							a season spent in devotional exercises, an essay was read by O. J. Andrews. Remarks
							were made by Rev. H. Sheeley.
						The following question was then presented: What means can we employ to secure more
							conversions among the children?
						Remarks were offered by Judge Turner, Mrs. Wood, and others. The discussion was
							earnest and instructive.
						The question of uniting with the. State Union was deferred till Wednesday.

					

					

						TUESDAY EVENING.

						An essay was read by Rev. M. Carson, and questions concerning the creative days, the
							first man, the deluge, and the work of the Holy Spirit, were discussed by Judge Turner
							and Rev. T. H. Ball.

					

					

						WEDNESDAY, MASS CONVENTION EXERCISES.

						
							 Opened with Singing, Ps. 24 and 23, and prayer by Rev. O. C. Haskell.
							 Address of welcome by Rev. T. H. Ball, in the absence of others, with a
								response from the President.
							 Singing by the Lowell M. E. school.
							 Report of Secretary.
							 Singing by the Crown Point schools.
							 Basket Dinner.
							 Singing by the Cedar Lake German school and the Handley school.
							 Ps. 121 and 122 and the Lord's Prayer by the North Street Baptist
								school.
							 Address by Rev. Mr. Doering, German Methodist pastor.
							 Singing by Plum Grove school.
							Catechetical exercise on the first twelve most 
								noted men of the Bible narrative. The following were named as these men: 
									Adam, because he was the first man;
									Abel, because his name stands first in the eleventh of Hebrews as eminent
										for faith;
									Enoch, because he walked with God and was translated;
									Noah, because he was the one righteous man when "the world that then was,
										being overflowed with water, perished;"
									Abraham, because he was the father of the faithful, with whom the great
										covenants were made;
									Melchizedec, because he was, the priest of the most high God, the king of
										Salem, greater than Abraham, the one priest after whose order Jesus Christ as an
										everlasting priest was made;
									Isaac, because he stood next to Abraham in receiving the Messianic
										promises;
									Jacob, because he received the same promises, the land grant being confirmed
										to him "for an everlasting covenant."
									Judah, because he was the head of the kingly tribe, in whose line came the
										Messiah;
									Levi, because he was the head of the priestly tribe.
									Joseph, because he became ruler of Egypt and his sons Ephraim and Manasseh
										were adopted by Jacob to become the heads of Jewish tribes.
									Moses, because he was a great prophet, the leader chosen to deliver his
										nation from Egyptian bondage, with whom God spake face to face as a man speaketh
										to his friend.
								
							 Singing by the Cedar Lake German school.
							 The question in regard to becoming auxiliary to the State Union was referred to
								the superintendents of the county, to report to the Secretary.
							
							 The present officers were re-elected.
							 Singing by Crown Point schools.
							 Appointed the next anniversary to be held at Cedar Lake, the next quarterly
								meeting to be at Merriliville.
							 A vote of thanks to Mr. Prier, for the use of the old Fair Ground, was passed.
								Adjourned.
						
					
				
				
					Sixteenth Anniversary, 1881:
					"Most all of the older members of the Convention, now in 'the
							county, were present. It was, indeed, a re-union of Sabbath-school friends, some of
							whom had not been able to attend such a meeting for nine years. The Secretary reported
							twenty-five schools, eighteen of which he had visited when they were in session. He
							reported the largest infant class in the Methodist school at Hobert, numbering
							eighty-five, and the second at Lake Prairie, numbering thirty-three."

					Eighteenth Anniversary, 1883:
					"Many of the schools were present with large delegations, the
							Hammond school representatives numbering 170. Among the others may be named the Plum
							Grove and Orchard Grove, the South East Grove and Center, the Lake Prairie, the Cedar
							Lake, the Crown Point Methodist and Presbyterian, the Merrillville and Butler, and the
							Lake Home. Other schools were represented by smaller numbers. The Lake and Hammond
							schools were present for the first time." The following was one address
						delivered:


					

						AN ADDRESS BY T. H. BALL.
							PREPARED EXPRESSLY FOR THE LAKE COUNTY SUNDAY SCHOOL CONVENTION,
								AND DELIVERED AUGUST 29, 1883.

						SUBJECT: The Desirableness of Cultivating a Missionary Spirit.
						We recognize these facts: That God "hath made  of one
							blood all nations of men for to dwell on all the face of the earth," all the families
							of man having a common origin, all being descendants from one human pair;
						That a Saviour was provided for all mankind, according to that early promise made to
							Abraham, "and in thy seed shall all the families of' the earth be blessed;"
						That, as yet, millions of human beings have no knowledge of a Saviour, and are living
							still, after almost nineteen hundred years of the. Christian age have passed, in the
							dark night of heatlhnitm, worshiping idols and false gods; and
						That it is a duty pressing upon all persons in the Christian lands to send the light
							of life to the benighted nations of the earth. As the missionary hymn df Bishop Heber
							says:

						
							
								"Shall we whose souls are lighted
								With wisdom from on high,
								Shall we to men benighted
								The lamp of life deny?
								Salvation oh, salvation
								The joyful sound proclaim,
								Till earth's remotest nation
								Has learned Messiah's name!"
							
						

						I have now stated four great facts, and who can doubt that the grandest object for
							which we can live here, after having begun to love and obey Jesus Christ, is to strive
							to lead others to love and obey Jesus Christ? Our Saviour said, "All power is given
							unto me in heaven and in earth. Go ye therefore and teach all nations." We have his
							express command to carry and to send this glorious Gospel over all the earth, to bring
							it to the ears, and, if possible, to the hearts of all mankind. And this is what we
							call "missionary" work, a work which is all one in its two special departments  at home and abroad, in our own land and in other lands,
							wherever on the face of the earth human beings dwell. It is a work that has now, for
							the last hundred years, enlisted the love and the sympathies, and called forth the
							energies of many of the noblest, of the most grandly endowed, of the loveliest, of the
							men and women and children of Christian lands. The chapters in the world's history
							that will tell of the carrying of the Gospel to the islands of the South Sea, to
							Madagascar and to Africa, to the frozen regions of the North, to the Karens and
							Brahmins and Buddhisis Qf India, to the crowded millions of China and Japan, will be
							far more grand than any chapters that will tell of national conquests, of battles lost
							and battles won. There is no work on earth so grand as that which has for its object
							the winning of souls, the winning of this world, to Christ. And in the coming fifty
							years there is to be done a mighty work in, perhaps, finishing up or almost finishing
							up, the preaching of the Gospel among the tribes and nations of the earth. Privileged
							will those be who have an active part in this great work.
						We need to cultivate, as Sunday-school friends and workers, a more earnest and richer
							missionary spirit. What is life worth in the great reckonings of the universe, that is
							spent, as to its few brief years on earth, in selfish pursuits, in seeking pleasure,
							in gaining riches, in securing fame? "Nothing but leaves," "no garnered sheaves, to
							present to the Lord of the soil! When the harvest time comes we will all want some few
							full sheaves, some bundles of grain, in our arms to bring when the angels shout the
							"harvest home." What can be so pitiful, when the Saviour comes and the angel bands, as
							to have lived here for self, to have lived in vain, and to gain not one smile from an
							angel then, not one look of love from the Lord of all? When, instead  of putting on the beauty of immortality, it will be the
							shame and the disgrace of an everlasting defeat; of having wasted life and lost the
							enduring rewards of faithful service to be bestowed upon multitudes by the eternal
							King, when the arches ring of the world of light with the songs of praise to the
							Ancient of Days. The thought of opportunities lost must eat into the soul forever.
						We need'to cultivate, I have said, a richer and more earnest, missionary spirit. The
							world is open for effort: There are brave and loving hearts now in almost every land.
							They are struggling on, bearing sometimes many burdens, and they need help-they need
							helping hands as well as praying hearts.
						I have here a small map of a great kingdom, the kingdom of China. The Chinese Empire,
							you know, is the second in area and the first in population among the kingdoms and
							empires of the earth. We are told that it contains more than one-third of all the
							inhabitants of the earth. And in Christian England an effort has been commenced to
							evangelize it, to win some of its vast throngs for Christ. In 1865 was formed The
							China Inland Mission, including members, it is said, "of all the leading denominations
							of Christians." They have already opened more than seventy stations and out-stations,
							they have one hundred and one missionaries on the field, thirty men and their wives
							and forty-one unmarried, and about one hundred native helpers. This mission work is
							sustained by donations from various sources, one family donation in the year just
							passed amounting to three thousand " pounds sterling, or about fifteen thousand
							dollars. Many Chinese have been converted and baptized, and many copies of the
							Scripture and many religious tracts have been distributed, and the work is going
							successfully on. Japan and  India are also now great
							missionary fields, and the doors of entrance into all the heathen world seem to be
							open wide. It is an age and it is a time calling for workers and for means to aid the
							laborers in their work. Crown Point has one representative in the mission field in
							distant India, that land of teeming millions, of mighty resources, of great historic
							events. Mrs. Annie Turner Morgan was a few years ago a memberof the Crown Point
							Presbyterian Sunday school, with as little thought that she would ever leave, home and
							friends and native land and give her life to the Saviour's cause on the other side of
							the world as any young girl who is a member of our schools to-day There may be girls
							here to-day who will also go to some far-off land to aid in extending the glad news of
							salvation. There may be here some boy who will yet preach Christ in, to us, an unknown
							tongue and on a far-off shore. We do not know what for us God has in store, but it is
							time for us to think of these things, to think and also to do, in sending the
							blessings of the Gospel, of a Christian civilization with all that it means of home
							and comfort, of virtue and intelligence, of the spread of science and of art, of
							manufactures and of commerce, of railroads and telegraphs and telephones, of the
							healing art and of charitable institutions, of the uplifting of woman, and the caring
							for helpless childhood, of a true and polished literature as well as a true
							religion--in sending all these to the now low and degraded tribes and families of man
							whether in the wilds of Africa or on the islands of the sea. If we do not go we can
							send, we must send, send our prayers up to Heaven's glorious Throne, to the listening
							ear of the everlasting God, and send our means, to aid those who do go, in carrying on
							this great work. The women and the children in all heathen lands need help,  they need lifting up, they need love, they need a share
							in the blessings of a Christian home. In Christian lands the joys of home "are passing
							lovely;" but what can a home be in a heathen land where woman is well-nigh or quite a
							slave,; where she knows no Saviour whom she can love, can lean on, no strong arm to
							hold her up? We must send, send to such as these, the means of help. Two of our three
							and thirty schools report nine dollars each, one reports sixteen dollars, and one
							seventeen dollars, the past year for missionary work; but most of our schools. report
							nothing. Let me urge every school and every member of every school to do something
							this coming year in sending the blessings which we enjoy to some far-off land in Asia
							or in Africa, or to some island of the sea
						Through our various church organizations we can send direct to missionaries in
							heathen lands, and let us not be content, while we enjoy and women and children
							suffer, unless we do something to lift them up. One Spenny apiece, or one nickel or
							dime apiece we each might send; and the good for suffering humanity, for improving,
							were it only the earthly condition, the home life condition, of women and children in
							heathen lands, saying nothing of the men, only eternity could tell. Let me then again
							urge each school, through some channel of missionary work, to ,do something this
							coming year, in behalf of and for the Lord of the vine- yard, the Lord of the harvest,
							in sending the knowledge of his name into some dark and distant realm df earth. For
							the time is coming when it will be found to have been the noblest of all work to do
							something for the. cause of Christ.
						"Give me a motive," said once a young and enthusiastic girl, to a minister of Christ;
							"give me a motive  and I can do anything." Well, motives
							are various; but if a girl here would be somewhere long and lovingly remembered and
							praised, she need not, it is true, follow the footsteps of Annie Turner Morgan to
							India, she need not go herself to a foreign land, but she must see that her loving
							deeds will cause her name to be written under the name of that loving woman who
							brought her "alabaster box of very precious ointment," and poured all that ointment
							out upon the person of her Lord.

					

					

				

				

					Nineteenth Anniversary, 1884:
					Reported: "In all 33 schools, 2,029 scholars, 284 teachers." Children enumerated for
						the public schools, 5,530. "Three recitations were given by young
							ladies: 'This shall be Immanuel's Land' by Miss Minnie Chapman, of Sheffield school;
							'The Great Famine Cry' by Miss Alice George, of South East Grove; and the 'Two
							Banners' by Miss Bertha Edgerton, of Creston. The little children of the various
							infant classes, gathering in one band, joined in singing 'What a friend we have in
							Jesus,' and then united in the Lord's Prayer. It was beautiful to see that large band
							of little children from different parts of the county, the voices of so many of whom
							had never united in song and prayer before."

					

					The Twenty-first Anniversary was held at Lowell, August 25, 1886:
					The Lowell schools had arranged seats and provided a convenient stand for the officers,
						and an organ platform for the singers and children, in a pleasant grove near the town;
						the weather was very favorable for a public gathering, and the exercises of the day,
						lasting from 10 A. M. to 4 P. M., seemed to be more than usually interesting. The
						printed programmes distributed in the morning stated the objects of our annual
						celebrations  to be the following: "1. To keep up our
						acquaintance with each other, and to form new acquaintances, as fellow-workers in a
						great and good cause. 2. To learn the welfare and progress of all our schools and
						encourage and aid each other in this work. 3. To make an impression; to create and
						increase general interest in this cause." These objects have been kept quite steadily in
						view for some thirty years, and have made our August gatherings different in character
						from the "conventions" of many counties of our State. The four things to which we give
						prominence are: to secure as large an attendance as practicable of individual schools
						with the children and their banners; singing by the individual schools of their favorite
						pieces; a full report of all the schools as furnished by the secretary of each school;
						and the social basket dinner in the grove, to which about two hours is devoted.
					The morning exercises were: A song of welcome by the Lowell schools, devotional
						exercises, an address of welcome and response, singing by all the schools, singing by
						the Lowell Union school, the Lake Home school, the Hammond, the Cedar Lake Union, the
						Lowell M. E., and reports from all the schools.
					In the afternoon there was singing by various schools, there were devotional exercises,
						an address by the Rev. E. S. Miller, of Crown Point, on the preparation of teachers for
						their work; a recitation by little Dora Hogue, of Hammond, three years of age,
						"Grandpa's Spectacles;" also recitations by Arthur Pattee, of Lowell, "The Burial of
						Moses;" by Lucy May Cutler, of Cedar Lake, "The Blind Man;" by Miss Allie Dumond, of
						Lowell, "Oh, why should the spirit of mortals be proud;" also, "Three little children,"
						by Julia and Edna Michael and Emma Little; "Papa's Letter," by Kittie Gerrish; a song by
						the children  of Lake Prairie school, "Singing as we
						journey;" Psalms 121 and 122 by all the schools; the Beatitudes by the little children,
						after which they joined in singing No. 282 G. H., and united their voices in the Lord's
						Prayer. Brief addresses then followed, officers were elected, institutes were arranged
						to be held at Merrillville in October, at Hobart in January, at Orchard Grove in April,
						and at Creston in June.
					The following is a tabular view of the Secretary's report as read at the anniversary
						with corrections in fifth column.

					

						
							NAME OF SCHOOLS.
							Officers and Teachers
							Total Enrollment.
							Average Attendance.
							Received unto Church.
							Missionary Work.
							State and County Work.
							Expenses of School.
						
						
							Lake Home
							8
							60
							40
							--
							$--
							$35
							$20 00
						
						
							Hobart M. E.
							12
							75
							50
							--
							--
							1 50
							30 00
						
						
							Hobart Ger. M. E.
							10
							46
							35
							--
							12 50
							--
							10 00
						
						
							Hobart Congregational
							8
							40
							25
							--
							8 00
							--
							24 00
						
						
							Ainsworth
							6
							50
							35
							--
							7 50
							--
							30 00
						
						
							Ross Band
							6
							40
							30
							--
							--
							50
							10 00
						
						
							Butler Union
							6
							40
							30
							--
							--
							--
							8 00
						
						
							Merrillville M. E.
							10
							75
							62
							--
							5 65
							1 50
							15 00
						
						
							Vincent M. E.
							7
							30
							25
							--
							--
							42
							8 00
						
						
							Crown Point F. M.
							8
							50
							30
							2
							--
							38
							20 00
						
						
							Crown Point, Ger. M. E.
							11
							27
							20
							--
							10 00
							50
							10 00
						
						
							Crown Point Ev. Ger.
							8
							25
							20
							--
							2 85
							50
							10 00
						
						
							North Street Baptist
							3
							20
							10
							--
							1 50
							1 00
							5 00
						
						
							Crown Point Presbyterian
							16
							105
							48
							1
							11 09
							1 23
							49 50
						
						
							Crown Point M. E.
							21
							126
							100
							5
							11 00
							--
							40 00
						
						
							Le Roy Union
							8
							80
							75
							--
							--
							--
							9 00
						
						
							Plum Grove Union
							6
							55
							45
							--
							1 40
							50
							5 35
						
						
							Orchard Grove M. E.
							5
							50
							30
							4
							1 00
							59
							8 00
						
						
							Lowell M. E.
							12
							80
							60
							--
							3 40
							1 00
							35 00
						
						
							Lowell Union
							15
							140
							80
							--
							1 30
							1 50
							40 49
						
						
							West Creek M. E.
							7
							34
							27
							--
							--
							50
							5 98
						
						
							Lake Prairie Presbyterian
							7
							60
							30
							3
							7 50
							2 00
							10 00
						
						
							Cedar Lake Union
							11
							45
							30
							--
							--
							53
							9 75
						
						
							Cedar Lake Ger. M. E.
							14
							65
							60
							4
							15 00
							50
							20 00
						
						
							Dyer Union
							6
							40
							30
							1
							9 00
							70
							12 00
						
						
							Hammond M. E.
							19
							242
							138
							8
							6 00
							2 10
							60 00
						
						
							Totals
							250
							1700
							1165
							28
							114 60
							17 08
							505 00
						

					

					

					Of the twenty-six schools all use the International series of lessons; two, the Crown
						Point Presbyterian and the Lowell M. E., report teachers' meetings held; and two; the
						Lake Home and Hammond schools, report "house to house visitation."
					Some changes were made in the county officers. The President, J. L. Worley, who has
						held the office nine years, declining another re-election, A. A. Winslow, editor of the
						Hammond Tribune, was elected President; Cyrus Dickinson, Vice-president, and the other
						officers were re-elected.
					The following ministers were present and took some part in the exercises: J. F. Smith,
						H. Wason, J. Bruce, W. H. Broomfield, E. A. Schell, S. Hathron, E. S. Miller, M. F.
						Stright, of Hebron, and the Christian pastor at Lowell.

					

					Twenty-second Anniversary at Lake Station, with the Lake Home school, August 31,
						1887:
					"The grove in which the schools assembled is a very fine one for
							such a gathering, only that it was too near the railroad. As was expected, the Lake
							Home school had made excellent preparations, and had seated the platform better than
							was ever before done.
						The morning exercises were: Song of welcome by the Lake Home school; prayer; singing
							by all the schools, No. 14 G. H.; address of welcome; singing by the Hammond school;
							address by J. B. Hawkins, President of Porter County Union; address by Rev. S. P.
							Edmondson, of Hammond; singing by the Hobart Methodist Episcopal school; secretary's
							report, and singing by Dyer school and Lake Home school.
						A collection was then taken, amounting to $5.52, and. Sthe usual basket dinner
							followed.
						The afternoon exercises were more varied, and as  there
							was one not on the programme that quite overwhelmed the secretary with surprise he
							will hope to be excused for not presenting an orderly record. After singing by all the
							schools No. 391 G. H., psalms 23 and 24 were recited in concert; there was singing by
							the Hurlburt and Merrillville schools; a reading by Miss Lillie Davis, of Dyer school;
							recitations by Mabel Sydel, Maggie Burt, Kitty Fabian, Orpha Eastwood, and Nellie
							Patterson, of Lake Home school, and a Scripture recitation by the Dyer school was to
							follow. But about this time Superintendent Davis, of Dyer, came upon the platform and
							began an address to the secretary, with a large morocco pocket-book in his hand. His
							words were surely appropriate and well chosen, but the astonished secretary could
							hardly comprehend their meaning. Yet when the pocket-book changed hands and he felt
							its weight, he soon took in the situation, and then returned thanks as best he could,
							holding such a testimonial of the appreciation of his services by the schools of his
							county. As will be seen elsewhere, the amount of the "testimonial" was nearly $60, a
							surprise as great. and complete to the secretary of Lake county, in office nineteen
							years, as was the one to President Levering at Lafayette, and of which he had no
							warning.
						As might be expected, the interest in the exercises was not diminished by the
							suddenness and completeness of the "surprise and capture" of the secretary, and a
							recitation followed by Miss Emily Haywood, of Merrillville; a solo by Henrietta Peck,
							of the Hurlburt school; recitations by Eva Page, May Gordon, and Lulu Mitchell, of
							Hobart; Infant class exercises, Scripture recitation, singing 282, and the Lord's
							Prayer; singing in which the Lowell Union school was .represented; election of
							officers, appointment of institutes, place for next anniversary selected, closing with
							psalm 133 and  benediction. Thanks were voted to the
							Chicago & Atlantic road for their proffered courtesies, and to the people of Lake
							Station for their great kindness."
					Reported for 1887: Schools, 35; using Int. lessons, 34; officers and teachers, 295;
						number of scholars, 1,901; average attendance, 1,413; received into church, 118; amount
						for missions, $165.11; expended for schools, $453.28.
					The report for 1888 contained the following: "EDITH V. HALSTED, born August 8, 1877, the only daughter of
							Mr. and Mrs. T. H. Halsted, of Lowell, Lake county, Indiana, died Monday, May 7, 1888.
							She was a member of one of the Lowell Sunday schools; was a bright, active, gentle,
							affectionate child, and when she went up to Paradise much of the light of earthly love
							departed from her home. An only brother, some two years older than herself, is left to
							walk the paths of life without the help of a gentle sister's life and love.
					From one of the Hobart schools also death has removed a choice
							little child. HATTIE E. FORD, nearly nine years
							of age, daughter of Brother and Sister Ford, a sweet little singer, intelligent and
							interesting as a child, dearly beloved and cherished as a daughter and a sister, died
							at her home in Hobart on Monday, May 21, 1888. God's ways are not as our ways; His
							purposes and plans are far beyond our plans."
					From report for 1889:
					"Death has been among our schools since we met at Hobart. Miss
							Lois Foote, an estimable young lady, a teacher in the Lowell Union school, died at her
							home in Lowell October 7, 1888.
					"A sad accident has removed from the Shelby Union school and from
							this life one of our most active, manly boys. John Criss Lange was born May 19, 1871.
							On Thursday, October 25th, he was driving the horses where  some neighbors were pressing hay. A trace broke, he was struck by a
							whipple-tree, and died on Saturday morning, October 27, 1888."
					The report also contained a. notice of the death in Oak Grove of the Superintendent
						there, Mrs. Mary Kesiah Hill, on Tuesday morning, May 28, 1889.
					"One school, the Hurlburt Union, now the largest country school in
							Lake county, besides other conveyances, came with two four-horse teams; and in one of
							these large wagons were fifty-eight children. It does not take many schools like this
							one to bring together a thousand children." This school reported for school,
						expenses of 1889, $92.00; the Hammond M. E. school, the largest in the county, reporting
						199 scholars, reported for expenses $104.16.
					From report of 1890:
					Officers, 160; teachers, 230; scholars, 2,180; average attendance, 1,345; received into
						church, 24; contributed for foreign missions, $129: Sunday school mission, $20.20;
						expended for schools, $690.79; church members under 15 years of age, 55; scholars under
						15 years of age, 999.
					Sunday-school institutes have been held by the county Secretary, aided by others, at
						the Butler school; at Ross, Merrillville, and Hammond; at Hobart, Lake Station, and the
						Hurlburt Corners; at Le Roy, Eagle Creek, and Plum Grove; at Orchard Grove, South East
						Grove, and at Lowell; at Pine Grove, Creston, and at Crown Point. Institutes have been
						held by others, especially by W. H. Levering and Rev. L. L. Carpenter, at Lowell; W. H.
						Levering, at Hammond, and by some visitors at Crown Point. Some of these were
						denominational.
					All of these institutes have been interesting; surely all profitable. Some have been of
						special interest; but these on this day we can not review. We are here now in the
						present.

					

					One of the papers specially prepared for this anniversary of 1890 was the following
						address by the Secretary, T. H. Ball.

					

					

						SOWERS AND REAPERS.

						"One soweth and another wreapeth."

						These words, spoken by our Saviour to his disciples beside Jacob's well in Samaria,
							where he had been resting in the noon-tide hour, seem to be an old Jewish proverb.
							They had been true many times before, according to Jewish observation; they have been
							true many times since. Who knows in the time of seeding when the wheat, the rye, the
							barley, the oats, are carefully buried in the prepared soil--who knows how many of
							those that did the sowing will.be in the field in the time of harvest? Some may have
							gone to other homes, to other lands, or to another world. We do not know in sowing
							time who will live to see the reaping. But what matters it, if the main thing is
							having ripened grain to gather? Some one will see that the golden grain is safe within
							the barn.
						A youth has been toiling diligently in the time of seeding in the great grain field.
							He has worked faithfully. Nobly along with his father and his brothers has he done his
							part in preparing the soil and in putting in the seed. That season passes and another
							comes. But while the rain and .the sunshine are doing their work, and the wheat is
							already promising a yield of thirty or of sixty-fold, and there is now no more work to
							be done in the field, the vigorous form of that young husbandman is lying in his
							father's home with the typhoid fever rapidly consuming his young life. He looks out
							from his window upon that field of grain and he says: "Oh mother! I wish I could live
							and do that harvesting. I wish I could take my seat next month upon the reaper. I wish
							I could help to put the bundles  in the shock. I wish I
							could measure the grain from the thresher." And the mother says, "Rest satisfied, my
							son, you have done your part. It was much, very much to do all that sowing. If no
							sowing there could be next month no harvest. That was an important part of the work to
							be done in securing a barn full of grain. God thinks that you have done enough. Rest
							satisfied, and let others do the reaping. The grain will be safe. The harvest is now
							quite sure. We shall not forget your part of the work when the bushels are all
							counted."
						Saying nothing, now, of the mere enjoyment of earthly life, saying nothing of social
							enjoyment, having present with us those whom we love, if the main thing is having
							ripened grain to gather, then should not that mother's words have been sufficient
							comfort for her son? And if so in literal sowing and reaping, how much more in the
							spiritual realm of work? "One soweth and another reapeth" said the great Teacher. "I
							have chosen you and ordained you," he said to his first disciples, "that ye should go
							and bring forth fruit." "All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth, Go ye,
							therefore, and teach all nations;" "He that reapeth receiveth wages and gathereth
							fruit unto life eternal; that both he that soweth and he that reapeth may rejoice
							together." If bringing forth fruit, if teaching, if sowing, is a great part of a
							Christian's work on earth, then how fitting as well as beautiful are those words of a
							modern poet,

						
							
								

									"Sow good--and tend it with steadfast care--
									And beyond all dreams shall the fruit be fair;
									What matter--you helped the fruit to bring--
									If you fall asleep ere the harvesting?"

								
							
						

						Bye and bye, yes, bye and bye, the sowers and reapers will together rejoice. He who
							taught that certainly  knew full well those older words,
							"They that sow in rs shall reap in joy. He that goeth forth and weepeth, bearing
							precious seed, shall doubtless come again h rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with
							him."
						While this day we ought surely to remember our early sowers, we need not, then,
							lament their departure. Their work was well done. Their joy is sure. Some of their
							names have been sounded in our ears today; although in regard to most of us their
							names bring not back the aspect of their living forms. Another generation has already
							taken their places. And to you, who have no remembrance of our earliest workers, let
							the Saviour's words sink to-day into your hearts, "Other men labored, and ye are
							entered into their labors." Long have the voices been silent of MNorman Warriner and
							J. C. Brown; of Thomas L. Hunt and Philip Reed; of George W. Taylor and Charles
							Barton; of William Townley and Major Allman; of George Woodbridge and William Forbes;
							of Alexander Hastings and Daniel Crumpacker; of Robert Hyde and of R B. Young. And
							these are only a part of those that years ago preached the word of God among us. The
							superintendents, the teachers, the active workers in our schools for these fifty
							years, no one now living can name them all. Truly, some are sent to reap that whereon
							they bestowed no labor. Into the labors of others most of this generation have
							entered. Brothers and sisters, somebody sowed where you now reap. And in these fifty
							years have many fallen asleep. They are resting from their labors, and their works
							will follow them. They sleep in death to wake in glory. Some of us remain who were
							children in the earliest schools. But on our heads the hair is gray. The young are
							almost crowding us aside, and soon we shall cease to sow. Said that same poet, E.
							Nesbit, who combines so well truth and beauty:

						

						
							
								

									"Youth will be, though our youth go by;
									Life will last, though our life be done;
									Love will live, though our love should die;
									And the strife go on, though our rest be won."

								
							
						

						Let us who are soon to pass away be content in having done the sowing. Let us be glad
							that our eyes may see the coming of the reapers. For we can not forget that by and by,
							when the full harvest of the earth is ripe, that then, not others younger and fresher
							than ourselves, but the strong angels, the great angels of God, will be the reapers.
							As some used to sing:



						
							

								"Sow in the morn thy seed;
								At eve hold not thy hand;
								To doubt and fear give thou no heed;
								Broadcast it o'er the land.

							
							

								Beside all waters sow;
								The highway furrows stock;
								Drop it where thorns and thistles grow;
								Scatter it on the rock.

							
							

								And duly shall appear,
								In verdure, beauty, strength,
								The tender blade, the stalk, the ear,
								And the full corn at length.

							
							

								Thou canst not toil in vain;
								Cold, heat, and moist, and dry,
								Shall foster and mature the grain
								For garners in the sky.

							
							

								Thence, when the glorious end,
								The day of God, shall come,
								The angel reapers shall descend,
								And Heaven shout, 'Harvest home!'"

							
						

					

				

				

					Following this address was a song given by fifty young girls, each wearing a badge on
						which was printed, "Lake Co. S. Schools. 50 Years. 1890;" and each ten having a banner,
						these bearing the dates 1840, 1850, 1860, 1870, 1880, 1890. The girls, during the
						address,  had been seated in chairs at the south of the
						speakers' platform, in a beautiful semicircle, or, rather, in a semi- circle of
						beauty.
					The other badges worn that day had printed on them "L. C. S. S. U., 25th Anniversary,
						1890."
					(From these two sets of badges comes the form of the opening sentence of this
						book.)

					




						GIRLS' SONG--OH, WHERE ARE THE SOWERS? 
							WRITTEN BY T. H. B., FOR THE LAKE COUNTY SUNDAY SCHOOL
								SEMI-CENTENNIAL.

						

							Oh, where are the sowers who sowed good seed ?
							Who helped both the sheep and the lambs to feed ?
							Who watched and who prayed in these fifty years;
							Who went forth to sow, and oft sowed in tears ?

						

						
							CHORUS.
						

						
							Where are the sowers? Oh who can tell
							The joy and the life where they now safely dwell?
							The sowers have gone to dwell in light,
							Where comes no discord and falls no night.
						

						

							Both sowers and shepherds these toilers were;
							They loved Zion's ways, and they prayed for her;
							Much had they to do, there were wolves not few;
							They knew with the wheat that tares also grew.

						

						
							CHORUS.
						

						

							These sowers and shepherds were fishers true;
							They drew in the fish from the waters blue;
							The long Gospel net they knew how to spread,
							Where the waters were deep in the dark sea bed.

						

						
							CHORUS.
						

						

							Yes, sowers and shepherds and fishers, too;
							Not light was the work which they had to do;
							They did their work well and went home to rest,
							And now evermore they dwell with the blest.

						

						
							CHORUS.
						

					

				

				

					The words of the song pass away into the August sunshine, and up into that deep blue
						that is above us.  There is not even an echo left, only in
						human hearts, of the last words that came from the lips of childhood.

					
						

							"The sowers have gone to dwell in light,
							Where comes no discord and falls no night."
						
					


					The white-robed girls are no longer grouped before the Fair Ground Platform. The sun of
						this long August day has passed the midday hour. And so we close here-our listening
						attitude as in the presence of that large assembly. And the further gathered facts in
						this book we examine in our own peaceful homes where earth's night will surely come.

					 


				

				


				

					ADDENDA.

					In 1873 twenty-seven schools were reported. Among them were two only in North Township,
						Hessville and Sand Ridge, the latter reported as Episcopalian.
					In West Creek were three as reported: the West Creek M. E., Mrs. Bonham's, and the
						Livingston school.
					The Prairie View and Orchard Grove schools were reported as having been kept open all
						the past winter. The total school membership as reported that year was, according to
						townships, North, 50; Hobart, 75; Calumet was not; Ross, 212; Winfield, 140; Center,
						230; Hanover, 50; West Creek, 85; Cedar Creek, 205; Eagle Creek, 125; total 1,162.
					ABSTRACTS OF .SOME REPORTS.
					From the individual school reports now on file:
					The eleventh annual report was made August 29, 1877.
					The journal for that year said: "April 22d, organized the Pleasant Hill Sabbath school.
						Superintendent, W. Mikel; Assistant Superintendent, Mrs. Ferree; Secretary, Miss M.
						Collins; Treasurer, Miss A. Patton; Librarian, Miss Collins; Teachers, Mrs. Blowers,
						Mrs. Ferree, Mrs. Collins, W. Mikel."
					Thirty-nine schools are named in the report, but three as being not then in
						session.
					Among these the Whiting school is mentioned as having been organized in 1877 with sixty
						members, and the report says: "During the past year an unusual religious interest has
						spread over much of our county."

					

					The name following each school name in this abstract is that of the superintendent. The
						Ross "Union Band," E. M. Kronkright, reports members 25; conversions, 5; Merrillville,
						Mrs. M. J. Hyde, 57, 13; German M. E., Crown Point, Daniel Behrens, 24; Emanuel, Frank
						Basel, 25; Crown Point M. E., J. Houk, 125; infant class, 40; under twenty-one years of
						age, 80; Sec. Daniel Krinbill; Crown Point Baptist, J. H. Abrams, 80, ,14, Sec. Hattie
						Austin; North Street Baptist, T. H. Ball, 35, infant class 20, under twenty- one 34;
						Crown Point Presbyterian, Charles F. Griffin, 80, conversions 15, Sec. Mellie Vilmer;
						"Union," G. Handley, 60, conversions 25, Sec. Lewis Dresser; School Grove, George
						Averill, 44; Pleasant Prairie, G. W. Chapman, G. Williams, 30, 6; Pleasant Hill, Mr.
						Bacon, 30, Sec. Bell Collins; S. E. Grove, H. Boyd, 40, 9, Sec. Mat Brown; Center,
						Jerome Temple, 30, 14, Sec. W. Turner; Robinson's Prairie, H. B. Wood, 43, 2, Sec. Mary
						B. Wood; Plum Grove, Mrs. M. J. Dinwiddie, 87, 4, under twenty-one 70, Sec. Aaron
						McCann; Lowell, Alonzo Martin, 90, 16, 70; Lowell Union, Rev. J. Bruce, 90, 3, 79;
						Lowell Christian, H. Dickinson, 41; Pine Grove, S. R. Tarr, 48, 3, 45, Sec. E. W. Booth,
						number of verses recited 2,400; Lake Prairie, T. A. Wason, 65, under twenty-one 45;
						Cedar Lake Union, Victor Gear, 40; Ewen, Mrs. Ewen, 30; Oak Ridge, James Woodberry, 30,
						5, 20, Sec. Henry G. Klinefelter; Hammond, W. H. Goodman, 23, children in infant class
						11, under twenty-one 18, Sec. J. B. Smith, teacher of infant class Miss Alice Sohl. It
						appears from the above, which are all from the official reports now on file, that the
						largest school in Lake county now was the smallest in 1877; and that the infant class,
						having the same teacher now, has increased from eleven members to one hundred and
						forty-seven.

					

					As the names of the infant class teachers were nearly all given inthe reports for this
						year, it may be a matter of interest to have them recorded here. The names are in the
						order of the schools as given above. The figures annexed are the number in each
						class:
					Miss C. E. Hayward, 10; Mrs. G. Morgan, 12; Miss Philopene Rittmuller, 8,---10; Mrs.
						Griggs, 40; Miss Addie Ferguson, 25; Mrs. M. C. C. Ball, 20; Mips Mamie Turner, 15; Miss
						Albertha Mann, 10; Mrs. C. Chapman, 9; A. Bacon, 5; Mrs. Blowers, Miss Mary Patten, 16,
						no infant class, Miss Rhoda Antrim, 11; Mrs. M. J. Dinwiddie, 11, Mrs. M. N. Dinwiddie,
						12, 23; Mrs. Emma Grogg, 20; Miss Alta Fry, 10; Mrs. Jane Sanger, 12; Mrs. Olive Booth,
						12; Miss Mia L. Wason, 11; Mrs. Anna Taylor, 8; Miss F. Reed, 17; Charles Vincent, 9;
						Miss Alice Sohl, 11; 324. The reports for 1883 and 1884, besides the other usual
						particulars, gave the number in the girls' classes and the number in the boys' classes.
						In combining these reports in this abstract, the numbers are for 1883, and are for whole
						number, for girls' classes, and for boys' classes. Crown Point Ev. Ger., C. Weis, 30,
						12, 7; Crown Point German M. E., J. Knoedler, 31, 10, 10; Crown Point F. M., S. C.
						Spaulding, Sec. Ruby Underwood, Supt. 1884 Mrs. F. Fessenden, 38, 8, 4; Crown Point
						Baptist, J. H. Abrams, Supt. 1884 Rev. L. A. Clevenger, Miss Mabel Northrup Sec. 30, 12,
						10; C. P. Pres., C. F. Griffin, 120, 17, 17, Sec. Jules Jouvenot, 1884 Miss May
						Northrup; C. P. M. E., W. S. Babbitt, 1884 Jacob Houk, 119, 33, 18, Sec. Mrs. C. L.
						Ingersoll; North Street Baptist 1884, T. H. Ball, Sec. Miss Georgie E. Ball, 30, 10, 8;
						Red Cedar, Marshall Nichols, Sec. Willie Haan, 1884 Mrs. Hill, Sec. Miss R. Brown, 32,
						6, 8; Cedar Lake Union, M. Nichols, 60, 15, 15; Ceder Lake Ger. M. E., Charles Sauter,
						1884 F. L.  Sunderman, 70, 32, 38, Sec. Miss Louisa
						Mondernach; Lake Prairie, Rev. H. Wason, 1884 L. G. Little, 80,10, 10; Pine Grove, J. A.
						Little, 1884 W. H. Bradley, Sec. Mrs. Delia Burhans; Oak Grove, H. W. Dodd, Sec. C.
						Cushman, 12, 6, 3; Egypt Union, Ellis Cross, Sec. Wm. Dickinson, 60, 6, 9; Lowell Union,
						C. F. Dickinson, Sec. Miss Lois Foote, 70, 10, 12; Lowell M. E., J. W. Viant, 1884 C. E.
						Chaffee, Sec. Mrs. R. A. Haskin 1884, 70, 20, 20; Orchard Grove M. E., G. W. Handley,
						56, 15, 8, Sec. 1884 Miss Olive J. Kenney, 1883 Miss Effie Kenney; Plum Grove, Martin
						Nichols, Sec. Ellis Shoup, 100, 16, 6 (Auguste 19, 1883, 70 present); Center, J. M.
						Temple, Sec. M. J. Brown, 34, 0, 7; S. E. Grove, H. Boyd, Sec. Miss Amy Crawford, 1884
						Miss May Doak, 52, 5, 5; Handley Union, 1884 S. Gehr, Sec. W. Skinner, 25, 7, 7;
						Winfield, 1884, J. P. Baldwin, Sec. Miss Eda Williams, 28, 10, 9; Deer Creek M. E., G.
						Handley, 30, 12, 0; Hurlburt Union, John L. Riecker, 1884 Michael Wahl, 60, 10, 6, Sec.
						M. C. Riecker, 1884 Miss Lena Wahl; Hickory Top Union, R. A. Castle, 50, 15, 12, in 1884
						called Ainsworth, 1884 E. Harper, Sec.; Merrillville M. E., Mrs. M. J. Hyde, 1884' M.
						Pierce, 55, 6, 6, Sec. Mrs. C. L. Merrill;--a revival seems to have come, for in 1884
						the members were 72, 24, 8;--Butler Union, A. T. Davis, Sec. Miss Lillie Davis, 40, 8,
						7, in 1884 Mrs. Mary E. Nicholson, Sec. Frank Paine; Dyer Union, Mrs. Biggs, 1884 George
						Davis, 40, 6, 2, Sec. Miss Lillie Davis in 1884, numbers 45, 18, 16; Ross Band, Alfred
						Hayward, 35, 5, 5, Sec. Leroy Holmes, 1884 Supt. John Muzzall; Hobart Ger. M. E., F.
						Hamann, Sec. Jacob Lutz, 1884, F. F. Frank, 40, 5, 9; Hobart Christian Association, W.
						Ballantyne, Sec. Alice Cowlin, 57, 32, 15; Hobart M. E., Mrs. M. Higgins, 116, 25, 20,
						Sec. W. W. Truesdell, 1884 Sec. H. C. Hanson; Lake Home, Mrs. T. E.  Lincoln, 40, 15, 8, Sec. E. E. Willis, in 1884, 112, 24, 27; Hammond M. E.,
						A. A. Winslow, 130, 42, 11, in infant class 65; Sec. A. T. Robinson, numbers in 1884,
						200, 70, 37, infant class 75, Sec. Miss Rettie E. Kirkpatrick; Hammond Ger. M. E., Emiel
						K---, 30, 16, 14. A note appended says, "Mostly members also of the American Hammond M.
						E. school. Some of the girls good singers." 1884 Supt. Fred Mahlee, 20 then reported, 5
						attending also the other school; Sheffield, 1884 Miss Minnie Chapman, 28, 8, 9, infant
						class 11, Sec. Miss Amelia Kreuter; Clarke, Mrs. Hoyt, 12, 4, 8. A note says, "A winter
						school. Mrs. Hoyt, a Congregationalist from Morris, Ill., spending her winters in Lake
						and the wife of the station agent, a Baptist, Mrs. Cole, carry on this school. No
						American families, or very few, around Clarke." Total of the above members, whole number
						1844, girls 452, boys 345. In infant classes 450.
					In 1885 James Pinkerton and C. E. Chaffee were Superintendents at Lowell, A. A. Winslow
						at Ham= mond; J. Muzzall at Ross, W. H. Bradley at West Creek, and Louis Locker at the
						Cedar Lake German school.

					

					From report of 1888:
					
						"We held institutes the last year at the Hurlburt school house, at
							Ross, at Hammond, at Le Roy, and at Lowell. All of these were interesting and
							profitable. At Hammond we had the presence and help of B. F. Jacobs, of Chicago, for
							one evening. * At Hurlburt, Ross, and Lowell rich basket dinners were furnished, and a
							bountiful vestry supper at Hammond. At Le, Roy the families entertained at their
							homes."
					

					

					It was the privilege of the Lake county secretary to be one of the Indiana delegates to
						the International S.  S. Convention in 1884 and in 1887.
						At Louisville he took the responsibility of pledging twenty-five dollars from Lake
						county to the International fund, the delegate of one other county only in Indiana, Rush
						county, doing the same. The following is the receipt from the treasurer showing that
						Lake county enabled the secretary to make good that pledge:
					"Chicago, June 1, 1887. Received from Rev. T. H. Ball twenty-five
							dollars, being for subscription to International S. S. Convention by Lake county,
							Indiana, made at Louisville, Ky., 1884. L. H. Biglow,
							$25.
							Treas. In. S. S. Con."
					

					This money had been saved out from the annual county collections of 1884, 1885, and
						1886. Secretary.

					

				
				

					EXTRACTS FROM SECRETARY'S JOURNAL.

					This journal was kept in quite an abbreviated form and is given here, for the most
						part, as originally written. Some of its statements may correct inaccuracies that have
						come from personal recollections, and some new particulars will appear which it is hoped
						are worthy of preservation in these school records. From September 3, 1871, to August
						25, 1872.
					September 3. Visited Presbyterian school at Crown Point; present, 75.
					September 24. Prairie View; one large Bible class; few children out on account of
						sickness.
					October 15. S. E. Grove. Found that little Mary Spragte had lately died.
					October 22. Lake Prairie; 40. Few children. National series of lessons.
					May 5. 1872. Organized a school at Pleasant Prairie. Superintendent, J. Patten;
						Assistant, Mrs. Williams; Secretary, G. Wise. Teachers: J. P. Baldwin, Mrs.  Baldwin, Miss Wise. Hour, 3 o'clock. Also, May 5, S. E.
						Grove and Deer Creek were re-opened.
					May 14. Hickory Top school. Present, 40. A good library. Take several copies of papers.
						Brother Hines, pastor.
					May 26. S. E. Grove. Fair attendance. Lesson in the Gospel by John. Consecutive Union
						Question books. Union school. Evening. Attended Pres. S. S. concert. T. J. Turner
						addressed the school.
					June 23, Bryant's school house, 3 P. M. Present, 50. Nearly all young. Have different
						lessons. Quiet and atentive.
					June 30. Cedar Lake. Present, 40. Using Union Question Books. Lesson in John's Gospel.
						Library volumes, 150.
					Jones' school house. Present, 40, 2 P. M., Robinson's Prairie, 30. Good voices and
						cultivated in singing.
					July 14. 9 A.M., Deer Creek. A very hot morning. Number about 40. Lesson in John, 6.
						School sing-- Several girls. Not many small boys. Quiet and attentive to the
						exercises.
					Hurlburt's school house, 10 A. M., O. Peck, Supt. Present, 36. Union S. S., 1867. Whole
						number, 50.
					Pleasant Prarie, 3 P. M. Present, 50. Seven classes. Supt., J. Patten. Use "Fresh
						Laurels."
					July 21. At South East Grove. Small school. Morning wet. 3 P. M., Bryant's school
						house. An excellent class of young men, attentive and thoughtful. A small library of
						about 75 volumes. [School at Vincents. Members, 60. Not visited.]
					July 28, Lake Station. Present, 18, but the school numbers 25. Supt.,--Pelham. Children
						quite attentive.
					12 M., Hobart. Whole number, 62. Officers, 10.
					Ensign S. S. Close by county line. Members, 25. Met at 11 A. M., August 4.

					

					Centerville S. S. (now Merrillville), 9:30 A. M. Four classes. Solicited their
						attendance at the anniversary. 10:30 o'clock, at Adams school house. Present, 26.
						Classes, 4. Number, 40. Sup't, R. Randolph. Repeated verses commencing with the letter
						J.
					1 o'clock, Underwood school house. Whole number, 60. Present, 45.
					3:30 or 4 o'clock, at Pleasant Prairie. Present, 60.
					Aug. 11. 9 o'clock, M. E. school at Lowell. 50. Large infant class. 10:30 o'clock, Lake
						Prairie. 40.
					3. Buncombe, at Burhan's school house. Whole number, 30. Present, 23. School recited
						during the season 2326 verses.
					Aug. 18. Eagle Creek. Rainy morning. School meets at 3 o'clock. Whole number, 25. E. M.
						Robertson, Sup't. Good singing.
					Aug. 25. Visited Orchard Grove. Sup't, G. W. Handley. Present, about 30. Aug. 28.
						Convention.
					Another school year.
					Sept. 1, 1872. Visited the Jones school. A small attendance. Some good teachers. Use
						question books.
					Sept. 15. Visited school at South East Grove. 3 P. M., visited Bryant school. Good
						attendance. All young.
					Sept. 22. Visited M. E. school at Crown Point. The new pastor made. some remarks.
						Number present, 84. Election of officers for the year. Sup't elected, Andrew Krinbill.
						Sec., W. T. Horine.
					September 29. Visited Presbyterian school at Crown Point. No session on account of cold
						and storm.
					November 3. Visited Vincent school. Present, about 30. Adjourned until April.
					1873. April 27. Bryant school re-opened.
					May 4. Visited Presbyterian school. Present, 60. Using Westminster leaves. South East
						Grove to re-open to-day.

					

					May 25. At South East Grove. School prospering. Union. Mr. Parkinson,
						Superintendent.
					June 1. Visited Methodist school at Deer Creek. Present, 50. Mr. Coffey,
						Superintendent. Use Berean Lesson Paper. 2:30 P. M., visited German Union school at Deer
						Creek. Number, 30. 3 o'clock, visited Pleasant Prairie school. Superintendent, Albert
						Bacon. Number, 60. Lesson in Luke. No lesson papers.
					June 8. Visited the M. E. school at Lowell. Present, about 70. School increasing. Meets
						at 9:30 A. M. 3 P. M., visited the Lowell Union school. Present, 57. School lately
						re-opened.
					June 15. Visited the Jones school.
					June 22. At South East Grove in the morning. Subject came up of two anointings. 3:30 P.
						M., at Bryant's. Present, 49. The Superintendent says, "The object of the Sabbath school
						is to bring the scholars to Christ.
					July 6 Visited Orchard Grove. P. M., visited Eagle Creek. Good attendance. Several
						classes.
					July 13, 20, 27, August 17, records omitted.
					August 24. Vincent school, 9:30. Number, 52. 1 o'clock, Underwood school. Number, 52.
						50 papers. Library of 150 volumes. 3 P. M., Centerville school. Number present, 40.
					Saturday, 23. At Hobart. Number in school, 50.
					The journal for 1874 opens with that quotation from Rev. James Hamilton, which is on
						page two of this book, and the remark is added, Solomon's prayer, an example of right
						feeling. Visiting the schools was commenced May 10th.. There are, entries in, the
						journal for May 17, 24, 31, and the following for June 7. Visited Robinson Prairie
						school house. Conducted a Sunday-school exercise, Acts 1:1-12. Those present agreed to
						meet and endeavor to organize-re-organize it  means--next
						Sunday, at 2 P. M . 5 o'clock, Center school arranged to meet next Sunday.
					June 14, 3.30 P. M. Met with the Center school. School re-opened. Officers appointed:
						Supt. T. H. Ball; assistant, Mrs. L. V. Pearce; Secretary, Seth Pearee.
					June 21. Attended at the Center school. Lesson: 1, of Acts.
					And further record for that summer there is none. In the annual report made August,
						1874, is found the following: "When the spring-time came and the schools were re-opened,
						I commenced my usual visits, but was prostrated by disease; left the county for eight
						weeks, and returned last Saturday evening."
					With that Center school the Convention was that year to meet, and did meet in South
						East Grove.
					Of that Robinson Prairie school the report from the Superintendent, F. A. Ewer, said,
						among other encouraging things, "The school commenced"--was re-opened --"on July 5th,
						1874, with 15 members. During that month, the names on record increased to fifty-three."
						"* * there is an increasing interest shown in the school and a desire for its welfare
						and prosperity." "The heads of families take a lively and active part."
					A few extracts are here recorded from journal of eight years Iater. SCHOOLS VISITED, July 9, 1882. Free Methodist, Presbyterian,
						and M. E. schools, all at Crown Point. July 16. Baptist and Lutheran at Crown Point.
					July 23. Visited Lowell M. E. in the morning. 2:30 P. M., Band of Hope. 4 o'clock,
						"Lowell new Union school.
					July 30, 2:30 P. M. Visited school at Hammond.
					July 31. Visited Whiting. Obtained report from a man on Mud Lake. Got lost in the tall
						grass and undergrowth  south of Whiting. Walked about
						twenty miles.
					August 6. Visited school at Merrillville in the morning. In the afternoon visited the
						Butler school.
					August 13. Visited South East Grove school in the morning. In the afternoon the LeRoy
						Union. Walked fifteen miles.
					August 20. Visited Orchard Grove in the morning. At 3 P. M., Plum Grove. Interesting
						schools and exercises. Plum Grove the large country school of Lake.
					August 27. Ten in the morning at the Cedar Lake school. Superintendent sick. Assistant
						Superintendent not present. 2:30 P. M., at Lake prairie. A New England like assembly.
						School prosperous.
					Another year. 1883. July 1. Visited M. E. school at Crown Point. As the next entry is
						peculiar I quote it entire.
					"July 8. Visited the Free Methodist at 9:30 A. M. A pleasant,
							earnest school. 12M., visited the Presbyterian school. Ten classes. Both of these at
							Crown Point. At 2:30 P. a., visited the South Crown Point school. Small, earnest,
							interesting. Prayers. Tears. The most attractive for real work. There are those, even
							in Crown Point, for whose souls it would seem no man cares."
					July 15. Visited the Crown Point Baptist school.
					July 22. Visited the German M. E. school of Crown Point. A very pleasant school.
					July 29. Visited the Lowell Union, Lowell M. E., and Egypt Union schools. All
						prosperous.
					August 3 and 4. Walked twenty-five miles in getting reports at Clarke, Miller's
						Station, Lake and Hobart.
					August 5. Visited school at Hammond.
					August 12. Visited South East Grove and Center  schools.
						Walked fifteen miles. Another record says: "Walked ten miles in getting reports. Have
						been in every township except St. John."
					Perhaps thus the schools .were educated up to make out and to send reports.
					Note. Perhaps as editor I might say for the Secretary, what he would not like to say
						for himself, that since the dark-brown " Zella," so gentle, so trusty and true, so
						useful in aiding to do missionary work, was killed by a freight train, he has scarcely
						cared to keep a buggy and horse; and that for the last few years, as Secretary of tie
						County Union, as President of the 22d District, as Missionary of the American Sunday
						School Union, he has walked from a.thousand to fifteen hundred miles each year in the
						counties of Lake, Porter, and LaPorte, of Starke, and Jasper, and Newton.

					

				

				

					SCHOOL ENROLLMENTS.

					The following pages contain the names of the members of our schools for the year 1890.
						The date attached to each school name is the date, so far as known, of first
						organization. The schools are given according to townships:

					

						WEST CREEK.

						

							LAKE PRAIRIE PRESBYTERIAN SCHOOL, 1857.

							Superintendent, L. G. Little.
							Assistant superintendent, Rev. J. F. Smith.
							Secretary and Treasurer, Miss Sadie Morey. 

									Bible Class, Rev. J. F. Smith, Teacher.
									Rev. H. Wason,
									W. H. Michael,
									Mrs. H. Wason,
									Mrs. W. H. Michael,
									Mrs. S. Dyer,
									L. G. Little,
									E. N. Morey,
									Mrs. L. G. Little,
									E. Michael.--9.

								
								
								

									Young People's Class, Mrs. Smith, Teacher.
									Maggie Michael,
									John Avis,
									Cyrus Kettenring,
									Maggie Sunderman,
									Mrs. C. S. Kettenring,
									Fred Sunderman,
									James Robinson,
									Axel Johnson,
									Willie Kobelin,
									Bertha Max
									Laura Kobelin,
									Abby Maxwell,
									Anna Cover,
									James Little,
									Minnie Kobelin,
									Jesse Little,
									Ella Rollins,
									Henry Gerrish.--18

								
								

									2d Young People's Class, Mrs. M. G. Little, Teacher.

									Myra Little,
									Lena Sunderman
									Emma Livingston,
									Fred Einspahr,
									Loren Micheal,
									Ida Michael
									Sadie Morey,
									Kittie Gerrish.
									Hattie Fuller.--9

								
								


									Children's Class, Miss Ellen Little, Teacher

									Julia Wason,
									Otto Dahl,
									Emma Little,
									William Morey,
									Lena Sunderman,
									Will Einspahr,
									Kittie Robinson,
									Ernest Livingston,
									Hannah Dahl,
									John Kobelin,
									Frank Avis,
									Frank Kobelin,
									Orville Edmonds,
									Emma Dahl,
									Melvin Robinson,
									Julia Michael.--16.

								
								


									Infant Class, Miss Nellie Morey, Teacher.

									Edna Michael,
									Herbie Michael,
									Carrie Morey,
									Esther Dahl,
									Jessie Michael,
									Reana Dahl,
									Alice Livingston,
									Bessie Burhans,
									Blanche Plumer,
									May Burhans,
									E. Louise Robinson,
									Edith Burhans,
									Gilbert Maxwell,
									Frank Robinson.--15
									Total membership, 72.

								
							

						


						

						

							BRUCE UNION SCHOOL, 1888.

							Superintendent, Rev. J. Bruce.
							Secretary, Miss Myrtie Hayden. 

									Bible Class, Rev. J. Bruce, teacher.
									William Sautter,
									Ella Stowell,
									Sarah Sautter,
									Cyrus Hayden,
									Emma Sautter,
									Caroline Hayden,
									Bertha Rudolph,
									John Timm,
									Johnnie Rudolph,
									William Hayden,
									Frank Rudolph,
									 Maria Hayden,
									Annie Bruce,
									Vina Koplin,
									Nora Stowell,
									George Koplin.--16.
									Children's Class, Miss Myrtie Hayden, teacher.
									Freddie Sautter,
									Lydia Rudolph,
									Thuel Hayden,
									Clifford Stowell,
									Jodie Hayden,
									Frankie Stowell.--7.
									Edna Hayden,
									Total membership, 25.

								
							

						



						

							PINE GROVE UNION SCHOOL, 1883.

							Superintendent, L. G. Little.
							Secretary and Trasurer, Miss Minnie Miller. 

									Young People's Class, Rev. S. F. Smith, teacher.
									August Miller,
									Charley Pulver,
									Albert Maxwell,
									Will Spry,
									Bertha Maxwell,
									Mollie Spry.
									Fred Miller.-7.

								
								

									Second YoungPeople's Class, Mrs. Sanders, teacher.
									Lena Miller,
									Elsie Shirley,
									Willie Belshaw,
									Eunie Shirley.-4.
									Girls' Class, Miss Bessie Spry, teacher.
									Mary Rosenbrook,
									Grace Pulver,
									Mary Bixermann,
									Anna Miller,
									Lula Pulver,
									Emma Miller,
									Mertie Pulver,
									Vinnie Shirley.--8.

								
								
								

									Boys' Class; Miss Cora Pulver, teacher.
									Eddie Bixermann,
									Solomon Spry,
									Louis Belshaw,
									George Miller,
									Albert Belshaw,
									Howard Slocomb,
									Clement Spry.--7.
									Infant Class, Miss Ellen Little, teacher.
									Marshall Brannon,
									Julia Belshaw,
									Willie Brannon,
									Willie Bixermann,
									Caroline Bixermann,
									Anna Miller,
									Earl Pulver,
									*Ella E.
										Belshaw.--7.
									Total membership, 40.

								
							

						

						

							OAK GROVE UNION SCHOOL, 1888.

							Superintendent, Miss .Clara Barrett.
							Secretary, Miss Jennie Sanders.
							Treasurer, Miss Ella Sims.
							Librarian, Miss May Bryant.
							Before September, Miss Anna Bailey. 

									Bible Class, Mrs. Barrett, Teacher.
									D. Hoover,
									H. Barrett,
									Mrs . Ella Hoover,
									J. Sangers,
									Cora Saylor,
									L. Mayard,
									Harry Meadows,
									T. Sims,
									Tiny Uhter.--9

								
								

									Children's Class, Mrs. Barrett, Teacher.
									Alta Dodd,
									Ada Doty,
									Ella Sims,
									Andrew Childers,
									Anna Bailey,
									May Bryant,
									Daisy Bailey,
									George Sims,
									Anna McCaskey.--9.

								
								

									Infant Class, Miss Jennie Sanders, Teacher.
									Bell Bryant,
									Edna Dodd,
									Mertie Dodd,
									Salie Childers,
									Etta Dodd,
									Searl-Childers,
									Gertie Sanders,
									Edna Doty.--8.
									Total membership, 30.

								
							

						

						*Died March 3, 1890.


						

						

							WEST CREEK M. E. SCHOOL. 1843.

							Superintendent, Charles Belshaw.

							On account of diphtheria, school was closed in the spring. The enrollment is
									probably not perfect. Names: Roy Nelson, B. Nelson, Jessie Hayden, Grace Hayden (a
									winsome girl, about eleven years of age, died of diphtheria in May, 1890), Abby
									Hathaway, Harry Hathaway, Sylvia Hayden, A. Hayden, Carrie Hayden, Floyd Hayden,
									Stella Foster, Clyde Foster, Kittie Foster, Bertha Foster, Wayne Foster, Blanche
									Hathaway, Carrie Hathaway, Nannie Bailey,-- Bailey, Arthur Trump, Jodie Hayden,
									Edna Hayden, EdithY Hayden, Helen Moore, W. Moore, West Moore. Teachers' names not
									given, 30.

						

						

							RIVER RIDGE UNION SCHOOL, 1888.

							Not now in session on account of two or three great wants, largely for the
									want of a suitable room in which to meet. The school has a small library, and the
									children are furnished with papers.

							Members, not numbered in the attendance of this year:

							Mrs. George Cole,
							Lettie May Stowell,
							Mrs. Latta,
							Jes. Stowell,
							Lizzie Gale,
							Floyd Stowell,
							Hattie Gale,
							Icie Stowell,
							Mary Gale,
							Katie Cheever,
							Annie Gale,
							Marvin T. Latta,
							George Gale,
							Edward Latta,
							Alta Thullen,
							Mary Blanche Latta,
							George Stowell,
							Alexander 'Black.--18.
							Total membership for township, 197.

						

						

					

					


						CEDAR CREEK.

						

							CEDAR LAKE UNION SCHOOL, 1840.

							Location at Creston.
							Superintendent, George Taylor. Before Sept., B. Cross.
							Secretary, Mrs. Martha Love.
							Chorister, Byron Cross.
							Organist, Ora B. Cross. 

									Bible Class, J. E. Love, teacher.
									Mrs. Emma Nichols,
									Mrs. Ella Taylor,
									Mrs. Ella Barber,
									George Taylor,
									L. G. Cutler,
									C. N. Barber,
									M. A. Palmer,
									Mrs. Alice Palmer,
									Mrs. Susan Taylor,
									Mrs. Martha E. Love,
									C. A. Taylor,
									B. F. Palmer.--12.

								
								

									Young People's Class, B. Cross, Teacher.
									John Wheeler,
									Robert Scritchfield,
									Mattie Garrison,
									Lucy Cutler,
									Ruth Edgerton,
									Alla Garrison,
									Ora B. Cross,
									Ernest Cross,
									Jasper Palmer,
									Charles Cutler,
									John Thompson,
									Theodore Cutler,
									Henrietta Palmer,
									George Edgerton,
									Alma Edgerton,
									Carrie Garrison.--16.

								
								

									Infant Class, Mrs. Mary Cross, Teacher. Former teacher, Mrs.
										Scritchfield.
									Belva Cross,
									Blanche Nichols,
									Grace Love,
									Hattie Nichols,
									Mertie Barber,
									Owen Taylor,
									Edna Taylor,
									Robert Palmer,
									SBessie Love,
									Florence Palmer,
									Mollie Love,
									Grace Palmer,
									Fannie Edgerton,
									Warren Meyers,
									James Hill,
									Harry'Meyers,
									Maggie Vinnedge.--17.

								
								
								

									Girls' Class, Mrs. Dora Palmer, Teacher.
									Maud Hill,
									Mary Hill,
									Ella Vinnedge,
									Lula Heath,
									Emma Stuppy,
									Grace Spaulding,
									Mary Palmer,
									Nellie Taylor,
									Clara Nichols,
									Bessie Palmer,
									Celina Nichols.--11.

								
								

									Boys' Class, Miss Annie Taylor, Teacher.
									Harry Taylor,
									James Palmer,
									Cordie Cross,
									 Fred Scritchfield,
									Arthur Taylor,
									Cassius Scritchfield,
									Earle Taylor,
									Edward Stuppy,
									Elmer Vinnedge,
									Cal. Pixley,
									Henry Cutler,
									Edward-Garrison,
									Clifford Thompson.--13.
									Total membership, 75.

								
							

						

						

							ORCHARD GROVE M. E. SCHOOL, 1843.

							Superintendent, George Ragon.
							Assistant, Lester Wallace.
							Treasurer and Librarian, Miss Stella Wallace.
							Secretary, Miss Addie Wallace. 

									Bible Class, L. Wallace, Teacher.
									George Ragon,
									Henry Spalding,
									James Craft,
									Clifford Kenney,
									Albert Davis,
									Fred Ebert,
									Harry Kenney,
									Burt Craft,
									Clifford Hill,
									E. McNay.--10.

								
								


									Bible Class No. 2, Mrs. Anna Davis, Teacher.
									Stella Wallace,
									Bertha Wallace,
									Flora Craft,
									Isabel Spalding,
									Addie McNay,
									Laura Cottrill,
									Myrtle Hill,
									Alice Ebert,
									Locena Hills,
									Minnie Fuller,
									Alice Kenney,
									Cora Davis,
									Cora Kenney,
									Addie Wallace.--14.

								
								
								

									Children's Class, Miss Minnie Ebert, Teacher.
									Merl Kenney,
									Georgie Davis,
									Maggie Ebert,
									Gretna Norton,
									Alice Spalding,
									Georgia Norton,
									Jessie Kenney,
									Grace Norton,
									Kate Kenney,
									Vern Kenney,
									Edith Ebert,
									Harry Hill.--12.

								
								

									Infant Class, Miss Grace Ebert, Teacher.
									Ethel Davis,
									Walter Craft,
									Roy Kenney,
									Vera Hill,
									Charley Kenney,
									Joe Ebert,
									Anna Ebert,
									Frank Ebert,
									Nellie McNay,
									Vada McNay.--10.
									Total membership, 50.

								
							

						

						

							LOWELL UNION, 1871.

							Superintedent, Cyrus F. Dickinson.
							Secretary, Miss Bessie Ackerman.
							Treasurer, Mrs. E. Harrison. 

									Bible Class, Teacher, J. L. Worley.
									J. Pinkerton,
									Mrs. Pinkerton,
									H. Dickinson,
									Mrs. Dickinson,
									Will Northrup,
									Mrs. Worley,
									Mr. Sprague,
									Mrs. Sprague,
									Mrs. Collins,
									Mrs. Potter,
									Mrs. Cox.--11.

								
								

									Young People's Class, Teacher, Mrs. Baughman.
									James Grant,
									Miss Lizzie Grant,
									Mrs. Katie Handley,
									Miss Grace Gordon,
									Mrs. Alice Klein,
									Mrs. Susie Allen,
									Miss Bessie Driscoll,
									Arthur Dickey,
									T. Collins,
									Miss Fanny Vosburg,
									F. Weakly,
									Mrs. Weakly,
									Miss G. Tuthill,
									Mrs. W. Clark,
									H. Dumond.--15

								
								
								

									Young Ladies' Class, Teacher, Mrs. Pinkerton.
									Bessie Purdy,
									Eva Spry,
									Maggie Smith,
									Dollie Smith,
									Elsie Gordon,
									Cora Pattee,
									Lottie Field,
									Cora Harrison,
									Daisy Moore,
									Mamie Witt.--10

								
								

									Girls' Class, Teacher, Miss Dora De Witt.
									Pearl McNay,
									Veva Castle,
									Mabel Purdy,
									Ida Berlun,
									Maud Nichols,
									Kittie Marmon,
									Lola Ragon,
									Ada Sanger,
									Lillian Wood,
									Jessie Nichols,
									Nora Pattie,
									Mamie Jeffrie.--12.

								
								

									Second Girls' Claas, Teacher, Miss May Deathe.
									Zoda Ackerman,
									Irma Collins,
									Lotta Metcalf,
									E. Nichols,
									Laura Bates,
									Helen Peterson,
									Ora Wood,
									D. Marmon,
									Jessie Deathe,
									Bessie Post,
									Ina Klein,
									 Ella Anderson,
									Icie Fross,
									Dora Witt,
									May Cottrell,
									Pearl Nichols,
									Sadie Nichols,
									Bernice Allen,
									Hattie Smith,
									Alice Shurte,
									Grace Pinkerton.--21.

								
								

									Infant Class, Boys' Division, Teacher H. Dickinson.
									Clyde Hill,
									Clay Chitwood,
									Lint Wood,
									Bert Wood,
									Earl Fross,
									Mint Clover,
									David Lee,
									Fred Lee,
									Jeddie Sanger,
									Harry Lloyd,
									Harry Peterson,
									 Hal Handley,
									Cordie Ragon,
									Arthur Fisher,
									Walter Powell.

								
								
								

									Boys' Class-Teacher, Miss Pinkerton.
									Will Smith,
									Lute Smith,
									Alva Wood,
									Daniel Klein,
									Charles Fisher,
									Fred Tillotson,
									Fay Pattee,
									Freddie Kyle,
									Samuel Babcock,
									Cal Nichols.--10.

								
								

									Infant Class-Girls' Division-Miss Bessie Ackerman.
									Minnie Spry,
									Alice Spry,
									Viola Spry,
									Ella Atwood,
									Bessie Chitwood,
									Bessie Peterson,
									Mabel Hitt,
									Mabel Simpson,
									Abby Simpson,
									Mary Ault,
									Jennie Witt,
									J. Klein,
									Jessie Fisher,
									Neva Deathe,
									Edith Dickinson,
									Alice Sprague,
									Ella Ackerman,
									Ethel Sprague,
									Bessie Fross,
									 Madeline Driscoll,
									Susie Gordon,
									Luella Spry,
									Mira Mee,
									Florence Mulliken--39.
									Total membership, 124.

								
							

						


						

							LOWELL M. E. SCHOOL, 1871.

							Superintendent, J. C. Spindler.
							Secretary, Miss Mattie McMinimy.
							Treasurer, --- ---.
							Organist, Miss Blanche Dickinson. 

									Class No. 1, Rev. J. Bruce, teacher.
									John Thorn,
									G. W. Handly,
									Perry Jones,
									Mr. and Mrs. Shouff,
									Mrs. Daum,
									C. Ketchem.--7.

								
								

									Class No. 2, Mrs. S. J. Clark, Teacher.
									Luella Fuller,
									Clara Webb,
									Clara Spindler,
									Clara Horhan,
									S. Dwyer,
									C. C. Dwyer,
									Mrs. Gregg,
									Mrs. Chs. Ketchem,
									Mrs. R. Cullum,
									John Ault,
									Oscar Hill.--11.

								
								
								

									Class No. 3, Mrs: D. Burhans, Teacher.
									Gracia Nighols,
									Hiram Gregg,
									Ruth Bacon,
									Bernard Robson,
									Ruby Bacon,
									Kill Davis,
									Ora Sarjeant,
									Albert Post,
									Cora Sarjeant,
									Irvin Spindler,
									Winnie Deathe,
									Mattie Hill,
									Blanche Dickinson,
									Merle Ashton,
									Etta Clark,
									Mattie McMinimy,
									Bertha Maxwell,
									Lucian Brannon,
									Maud Sanger,
									Walter Sanger.--19.

								
								


									Class No. 4, Mrs. Etta Davis, Teacher.
									Vira Harris,
									Gracie Bacon,
									Annie Johnson,
									Maimie Nichols,
									Norma Cullum,
									Ida Hoshaw,
									Sylvia Dwyer,
									Maud Hoshaw,
									Jennie Ault,
									Myrtie Chapman.--10.

								
								

									Class No. 5, Mrs. Sara Sherrat, Teacher.
									Bernie Burhans,
									Clyde Cullum,
									Mellie Nichols,
									Willie Lawrence,
									Willie Kyle,
									Charlie Sherrat,
									 Willard Farwell.--7.

								
								

									Class 6, Sylvia Bacon, Teacher.
									Juddie Davis,
									Ernest Dickinson,
									Charlie Warn
									Clifford Halsted.--4

								
								

									Class No. 7, Miss Eva L. Waters, Teacher.
									Jessie Hill,
									Lillie Tillotson,
									Flourrie Waters,
									Carrie Castle,
									Dollie Lee,
									May Lawrence,
									Ella Ketchem.--7.

								
								

									Class 8, Mrs. Mary Warner, Teacher.
									Cordie Burhans,
									Willie Davis,
									Freddie Kyle,
									Willie Purdy,
									Juddie Sanger,
									Sammy Babcock,
									Hermia Purdy,
									Harry Sanger,
									Hall Viant,
									Bird Viant,
									Don Driscol.--11.

								
							

						

						

						

							INFANT CLASS.

							Class No. 9, Maud Sherrat, Teacher.
							George L. Foster,
							Eddie Johnson,
							Blanche Cullum;
							Myrle Belshaw,
							Lena Kyle.
							Lillian Kyle,
							Madeline Driscol,
							Ione Chapman,
							Willie Nichols.--9.
							Total membership, 98.

						

						

							EGYPT UNION, 1883
							Superintendent, J. L. Worley.
							Secretary, Charles Griesel.
							Treasurer, Dora Griesel. 

									Ladies' Bible Class.
									Mrs. Worley,
									Mrs. Watson,
									Mrs. Griesel,
									Mrs. Johnson,
									Mrs. Ebert,
									Mrs. Fisher.--6.

								
								

									Men's Bible Class, J. L. Worley, Teacher.
									Herman Tahm,
									P. R. Dickinson,
									S. E, Dickinson,
									John Uhter,
									A. L. Gronberg,
									Lew Uhter,
									Albert Anderson,
									Perry Worley,
									Cyrus Griesel,
									Nathan Worley,
									Charles Sanders,
									Ben Worley,
									John Griesel,
									Lewis Wood,
									Irvin Spindler,
									Ovid Westberg,
									Frank Fisher,
									E. Watson,
									W. Worley,
									C. Dickinson,
									Will Uhter,
									Sam Worley.--22.

								
								

									Young Ladies' Class, Mrs. Allen, Teacher.
									Ida Anderson,
									Mrs. Worley,
									Dora Griesel,
									Minnie Fisher,
									Hattie Griesel,
									Maggie Smith,
									Mrs. Uhter,
									Grace Ebert,
									Dollie Smith,
									Wildie Fisher,
									Mrs. Hayden,
									Hattie Sanger,
									Maud Hill.--13.

								
								
								

									Boys' Class, Henry Worley, Teacher.
									Melvin Griesel,
									George Bartholomew,
									Forest Griesel,
									Alva Hayden,
									Cecil Johnson,
									Frank Worley,
									Fred Worley,
									Otto Johnson.--8.

								
								

									Girls' Class, Mrs. Rosa Worley, Teacher.
									Carrie Castle,
									Polly Watson,
									Myrl Griesel,
									Carrie Johnson,
									Bessie Allen,
									Hattie Smith,
									Sylvia Worley,
									Florence Fisher,
									Eliza Ebert,
									Ellen Fisher,
									Emma Uhter.--11.
									Total membership, 64.
									Total membership for township, 411.

								
							

						

					

					

						EAGLE CREEK.

						

							PLUM GROVE UNION SCHOOL, 1852.

							Superintendent, Mrs. L. V. Pearce.
							Secretary, John A. Dinwiddie, till Septenmber; since September, Elmer
								Dinwiddie.
							Treasurer, Miss Jessie Bryant. 

									Bible Class, Mrs. J. Pearce, Teacher.
									Jay Pearce,
									Alice Brownell,
									Florence Pearce,
									Bertha Bryant,
									Albert Buchanan,
									Jessie Bryant,
									Maggie Buchanan,
									J. J. McCann,
									O. Dinwiddie,
									Mrs. McCann,
									Jerome Dinwiddie,
									Mrs. C. C. Shoup,
									Elmer Dinwiddie,
									Will Dunn,
									John A. Dinwiddie,
									Hattie Cottrill,
									E. W. Dinwiddie,
									Rebecca McDaniel,
									Mrs. D. Dinwiddie,
									Etta Ewer,
									Grace Dinwiddie,
									Lizzie Hogan,
									Carl Brownell,
									Mrs. Hole.--24.

								
								
								

									Children's Class, Mrs. I. Bryant, Teacher.
									Joe Dinwiddie,
									Matie Brownell,
									Belle Dinwiddie,
									Jessie Hole,
									Daisy Dinwiddie,
									Blanche Bryant,
									John Brownell,
									Charley Henderson,
									Claud Brownell,
									Lettie Ewer,
									Katie Brownell,
									Myrtie Ennis--12.

								
								

									Infant Class, Mrs. O. Dinwiddie, Teacher.
									Lorraine Dinwiddie,
									Ina Buchanan,
									Edith Dinwiddie,
									Roy Shoup,
									Guy Brownell,
									Harry Tatman,
									Ruth Brownell,
									Willie Tatman,
									Eddie Brownell,
									May McCann,
									Cora Dinwiddie,
									Lottie McCann,
									Maggie Stahl.--13.
									Total membership, 52.

								
							

						

						

							EAGLE CREEK SCHOOL, ABOUT 1860.

							Superintendent, Palmer Temple.
							Assistant, Oscar Snider.
							Secretary, T. K. Fisher.
							Treasurer, W. Dunn.
							Chorister, Miss Nettie Hughes. 

									Bible Class, John Morrow, Teacher.
									William Dunn,
									Thomas Dilley,
									Orrin Thomas,
									O. B. Ludy,
									Will Nethery,
									Ellis Serjeant,
									Harry Berdine,
									T. K. Fisher,
									Ralph Berdine,
									Moses Handerson
									Carl Berdine,
									Will Glenn,
									George Dilley,
									Joe Henderson.
									Frank Richard.--12.

								
								

									Class No. 2. P. Temple, Teacher.
									Libbie Hughes,
									Tillie Nethery.--2.

								
								
								

									Class 3, O. Snider, Teacher.
									Mrs. Morrow,
									Marguerite Ludy,
									Lillie Hughes,
									Bertha Heise,
									Nettie Hughes,
									Carrie Berdine,
									Minnie Thomas,
									Minnie Wilson.--8.

								
								

									Class 4, Miss Hughes, Teacher.
									Bertha Ludy,
									Josie Nethery,
									Dora Blanchard,
									---Hughes.--4.
									Total membership, 33.
									Total membership in township, 85.

								
							

						

					

					

						WINFIELD TOWNSHIP.

						

							LE ROY M. E. SCHOOL, 1889.

							Superintendent, S.L. Beach. Secretary, Miss Maggie Stewart. Treasurer, Miss
								Pearl Hart.
							Teachers: Samuel Love, Sen.; Wm. Turner, Mrs. Wm. Turner, Mrs. S. L. Beach, Mrs.
								Addie Love.
							Members of the School : Mrs. Susie Miller, Mrs. A. E. Flint, Mrs. Harvey Gibbs,
								Mrs. Mary A. Phillips, Mrs. Jennie Love, Mrs. Ella Klinger, John R. Klinger, Peter
								Love, Harriet Stewart, Jacob Teeple, John Cunningham, Harvey Gibbs, Alvah Gibbs,
								Chas. Keehn, Maud Gibbs, Mabel Gibbs, Floy Beach, Florence Dulein, Frankie Dulein,
								Marion Riflie, Hugh Turner, John Turner, May Turner, Fred Love, Ella Stewart, Ara
								Green, Mertie Downs, Lula Flint, Cora Dulein, Mettie Kelly, Rebecca Downs, Willie
								Stewart. Total membership, 40.

						

						

							LE ROY U. P. SCHOOL, 1889.


							J. P. Baldwin's Class.
							Maggie Baird, Joseph Baird, Mary Baird, Jennie Nethery, Christopher Nethery,
								Martha Baldwin, Maggie Wilson, Lula Wilson, Dave McKnight, Willie McKnight, Lizzie
								McKnight (young people).--11.



							


							Mrs. R. Wilson's Class.
							Willie Baird, Lizzie Baird, Charles McCay, Delbert McCay, Eddie Wilson, Albert
								Wilson, Nannie McKnight, Jimmie McKnight (younger people).--8

							D. H. Thompson's Class.
							Mr. and Mrs. J. Nethery, R. Wilion, Mrs. J. Wilson, Mrs. Thompson, Mr. and Mrs.
								McKnight, Mrs. Baldwin, Mr. and Mrs. West.--10.

							Mrs. Stewart's Class.
							Edith McCay, Ella Stewart, Sammie Thompson, Jennie Thompson, Mattie Baird,
								Phoebe Baird (children).--6.
							Superintendent, James McKnight. Secretary, Miss Mary Baird.
							Total membership,40. Membership in township, 80.

						



					

					

						CENTER.

						

							CROWN POINT GERMAN M. E., 1874.

							Superintendent, John Knoedler.
							Secretary, Conrad Bitzer.
							Organist, Miss Hattie Bach. 

									Class 1. Conrad Bitzer, Teacher.

									George Bach,
									Titus Peters,
									Willie Peters,
									George Peters,
									Dan Bitzer,
									Herman Schroeder,
									Henry Kuehl,
									Willie Kuehl.--8.

								
								

									Class 2. Miss Christina Bitzer, Teacher.
									Lizzie Bitzer,
									Hattie Bach,
									Lydia Bitzer,
									Barbara Wagner,
									Annie Kuehl,
									Annie Schroeder.--6.

								
								

									Class 3. Miss Rosa Knoedler, Teacher.
									Emma Bach,
									Carrie Kuehl,
									Mary Bach,
									Ella Schroeder,
									Dora Kuehl
									Lydia Peters.--6.

								
								

									Class 4.Mrs. F. Peters, Teacher.
									Susie Ludwig,
									Carrie Ludwig,
									Ida Ludwig,
									Emma Kuehl.--4.

								
								
								

									Class 5. Mr. Kuehl, Teacher.
									Willie Bach,
									 Wesley Peters.--2.
									Total membership, 32.

								
							

						

						

							CROWN POINT GERMAN EVANGELICAL SCHOOL, 1874.

							Superintendent, C. Weis. Secretary, W. Raasch.
							John Houk,
							Matt. Houk,
							Mrs. Houk,
							Mrs. Houk,
							Sarah Houk,
							Susie Houk,
							Minnie Houk,
							Lena Houk,
							Bertha Houk,
							Gertie Houk,
							Willie Houk,
							Etta Houk.
							Rosa Houk,
							Ben Houk,
							Clarence Houk,
							George Houk,
							Mrs. Houk,
							Florence Honk,
							L. Weis,
							Joseph Ade
							Ida Weis,
							Mrs. Ade,
							Dena Weis,
							Ida Ade,
							Total membership, 26.

						

						

							CROWN POINT FREE METHODIST, 1881.

							Superintendent, Mrs. M. Ross.
							Secretary, Miss Etta Mills.
							Treasurer, Mrs. D. Ross.
							Librarian, Miss Hattie Kinney. 

									Bible Class, T. Cleveland, Teacher.
									W. Ross,
									David Ross,
									Mrs. D. Ross,
									Miss Frances Yirsa.--4.

								
								

									Girls' Class, Mrs. M. Ross, Teacher.
									Ula Hall,
									Grace Ross,
									Ola Lane,
									Rosa Delcamp.--4.

								
								

									Young Ladies' Class, S. Crawford, Teacher.
									Hattie Kinney.
									May Wilder,
									May Stevens.--3.

								
								
								

									Boys' Class, Mrs. Fessenden, Teacher. Part of the year, Mrs. D.
										Ross.
									Melvin Ross,
									Harry Ross,
									Dennis Brown,
									Carson Ross;
									Arthur Brown,
									John Wise,
									Clay Foster,
									James Wise,
									B. Foster,
									T. Moriarity.--10.

								
								

									Girls' Class, Mrs. Wise, Teacher.
									Pearl Wheaton,
									Addie Smith,
									Jessie Ross,
									 Allie Brown,
									Bertha Didie,
									 Susie Ludwig,
									Ida Ludwig,
									Clara Conway,
									Delia Conway,
									Edna Rhodes,
									Sarah Shafer,
									---- Shafer,
									Myrtle Day.--13.

								
								

									Infant Class, Miss Allie Fessenden, Teacher.
									Willie Didie,
									Arthur Bush,
									Charlie Didie,
									Eva Bush,
									Glbert Ross,
									Hattie Delcamp,
									Gouldie Ross,
									Ruth Fessenden,
									Clarence Bush,
									George Fry,
									Hattie Hall,
									Eldridge Hall,
									Victor Day.--13.
									Total, 54.

								
							



						

						

							CROWN POINT METHODIST EPISCOPAL SCHOOL, 1843.

							The other Crown Point schools meet in the morning.
							 This school meets in the afternoon.
							Superintendent, Dr. Gibbs. 

									NAMES OF MEMBERS.

									Ella Warner,
									Ida Westphall,
									Alta Meeker,
									Mabel Wilder,
									Anna Fisher,
									Edith Maxwell,
									Lilly Krinbill,
									Allie Houk,
									Lizzie Pratt,
									Mrs. Allison,
									Belle Hendly,
									Mary Muzzall,
									Sabra Babbitt,
									Josie Pratt,
									Ola Barton,


									

									Allie Fuller,
									Ida Lisbern,
									Richard Scoates,
									Minnie Sholtz,
									Ruby Flemming,
									Hazel Sanders,
									Delia Canway,
									Lizzie Sage,
									Hans Cook,
									Bessie Rosenbar,
									Jennie Westphall,
									Edna Maynard,
									Edith Fuller,
									 Ray Rockwell,
									Blanch Salisbury,
									Rae Lathrop,
									Ora Farley,
									Floy Vincent,
									 Marie Ames,
									Georgia Crawford,
									Ruth Fessenden,
									Louera Steb,
									Mattie Hall,
									Edith Steb,
									Louis Coffin,
									Lizzie Cook,
									Freddie Cook,
									Winnie Hack,
									Bessie Hildreth,
									Margaritte Allison,
									Bessie Scoates,
									Gertie Fisher,
									Ernest Pierce,
									Charlie Wedtphall,
									Ernest Hall,
									Willis Wood,
									Clarence Flemming,
									Willie Ainsworth,
									Harry Houk,
									Frank Beck,
									Willie Stolz,
									Wells Ainsworth,
									Georgie Fry,
									Dan Scoates,
									Wesley Peters,
									Ba1lard Hale,
									Frank Muzzall,
									George Perleywitz,
									 Emil Blinkhaan,
									Robert Henry,
									Charles Wise,
									George Peters,
									William Peters,
									Earl Caswell,
									John Melcher,
									Claude Roller,
									 Ward Marble,
									Harry Hayward,
									Eugene Cooper,
									Toots Moriarity,
									Johnnie Letterer,
									Harry Hart,
									Carson Ross,
									Burr Wheeler,
									Johnnie Houk,
									Harry Ross,
									Willie Tuttle,
									Roy Klinefelter,
									John Kenny,
									Henry Fredrick,
									Malvin Ross,
									Arthur Brown,
									Willie Hagedorn,
									Nina Hayward,
									Maud Smith,
									Anna Westphal,
									Martha Jones,
									Allie Fessenden,
									Ula Hall,
									Jena Case,
									Mable Stolz,
									Bessie Roller,
									Hannah Ketzman,
									Phebe Anesworth,
									Ida Fredrick,
									May Melcher,
									Hannah Diddee,
									Grace Ross,
									Frank Houk,
									John Wise,
									Henry Wise,
									Walter Atwell,
									Albert Killborn,
									Archie Farley,
									A. M. Markle,
									W. A. Scheddell,
									E. J. Muzzall,
									T. A. Muzzall,
									Jos. Patton,
									W. D. Jones,
									F. M. Armstrong,
									Olive Jones,
									Jennie Patton,
									May Fancher,
									May Lathrop,
									Clara Houk,
									Flora Houk,
									Cleo Wolf,
									Emma Handly,
									Bessie Harmon,
									Pearl Mallery,
									Lilly Fredrick,
									Lydia Peters,
									Juno Henderson,
									Essie Handly,
									Emily Hayward,
									Lulu Baker,
									Nellie Luther,
									Lilly Furneld,
									Flora Wood,
									Nettie Teeple,
									Della Killborn,
									 Birdie Smith,
									 Della Flemming,

									

									Grace Fancher,
									Hattie Kenny,
									Daisy Phelps,
									Myrtle Phelps,
									Anna Imhoff,
									Tracy Koupal,
									Clara Sherman,
									Mamie Melcher,
									Myrtie Fellman,
									Allie Merrill,
									Ruth Marble,
									Mamie Swartz,
									May Barton,
									Kittie Swartz,
									Tillie Griesel,
									Eva Wolf,
									May Wolf,
									 Mertie Westphal,
									Ruth Lathrop,
									Julia Maynard,
									Hattie Haggerdarn,
									Luella Edgerton,
									Mertie Crowell,
									Frankie Wheaton,
									Maggie Dietel,
									Bessie Rose,
									 Edna Ames,
									 Ida Maynard,
									Tillie Letterer,
									Mary Steeb,
									Bertha Keitzman,
									Mary Vincent,
									Floy Coffin,
									Anna Wheeler,
									Effie Crawford,
									Edith Rudolph,
									Amy Sailsbury,
									May Kenny,
									 Neva Hayward,
									Alice Wise,
									Lilly Goff,
									Jennie Simon,
									Maggie Mulcher,
									Pearl Wheaton,
									Clara Conway,
									Ada Edgerton,
									Barbara Clement,
									Alvira Brown.
									Total, 188.

								
							

						

						

							CROWN POINT PRESBYTERIAN SCHOOL, 1840.

							Edith Pettibone,
							Alice Holm,
							Harry Laws,
							Harvey Rockwell,
							Herbert Luckey,
							John Kemp,
							Elmer Kemp,
							Bessie Brown,
							Bernice Brown,
							Eva Brown,
							Grace Brown,
							Addie Smith,
							Clara Jarard,
							Winnie Hack,
							Arthur Bowes,
							Mamie Bowes,
							Edith Rudolph,
							Julian Youche,
							Edna Martin,
							Clara Borchert,
							Neva Hayward,
							Nellie Eldridge,
							Bertha Eldridge,
							Lena Donch,
							 Addie Edgerton,
							Debbie Wolf,
							 Clarence Rudolph,
							Howard Kemp,
							Cora Horst,
							Maggie Morgan,
							Belle Peterson,
							Murray Morgan,
							Hattie Morgan,
							Eddie Ruschli,
							Delia Herst,
							 Benton Lee,
							Jay Williams,
							Ned Wheeler,
							 Neddie Ames,
							Frank Beck,
							Ralph Gromann,
							Jay Clark,
							May Wolf,
							Pearl Nicholson,
							 Minnie Smith,
							May Davis,
							Pauline Pettibone,
							Nellie Greisel,
							Luella Edgerton,
							Mabel Brown,
							Myrtle Westphal,
							Jenie Case,
							Alice Willy,
							Edna Gromann,
							May Brown,
							Nina Hayward,
							Linda Wells,
							Jennie Wheeler,
							Maud Williams,
							Jessie Clark,
							Louisa Borchet,
							Tillie Borchet,
							Emma Westphal,
							Allie Merrill,
							Ruth Morgan,
							Earle Caswell,
							Homer  Williams,
							Ray Ames,
							Carl Ames,
							Delbert Shirland,
							George Jarrard,
							Birch Wells,
							Howard Hack,
							Bernie Foster,
							Clay Foster,
							Myra Wheeler,
							Jennie Wells,
							Bertie Lee,
							Daisy Barr,
							Myrtle Phelps,
							Daisy Phelps,
							Julia Hughes,
							Mabel Hofton,
							Alice Williams,
							Eva Pierce,
							Josie Pratt,
							Elizabeth Hickcox,
							Flora Wood,
							Jessie Doak,
							Claribel Clark,
							Mrs. Rockwell,
							Jennie Northrup,
							May Northrup,
							Mrs. Clara Clark,
							Mrs. Atkin;
							Mr. .Gromann, superintendent;
							Mrs. Gromann,
							Mrs. Thomas Fisher,
							 Mrs. John Fisher,
							Florence Pratt,
							Lizzie Pratt,
							May Williams,
							Mrs. Biggs,
							 Miss Flora Stout,
							Dr. Ma Whinney,
							Celia Jewett,
							Rev. Luckey,
							teachers--107.

						

						

							THE SCHOOL IN THE WOODS, 1889.

							Superintendent, T. H. Ball.
							Secretary, Miss Ella Goff.
							Librarian, Albert Mracek.
							Treasurer, Miss Ida Schwuchow.
							Teacher, Miss Fanny Henry.
							Clarence Sherman,
							Ella G. Goff,
							Charlie Sherman,
							Mary Coon,
							Maud Sherman,
							Annie Coon,
							Cora Sherman,
							Ida Schwuchow.
							Albert Mracek,
							Emma Schwuchow,
							Peter Mracek,
							John Schwuchow,
							Annie White,
							Bertha Burge,
							Arthur Burge,
							John Coon,
							May Burge,
							Mary Weiderman,
							George Barman,
							Lulu Weiderman,
							Annie Norak,
							Annie Siems,
							Tony Norak,
							Emma Norak,
							Louisa Norak.--25.
							Total membership, 27.
							Total in Township, 434.

						

						

					

					


						HANOVER.

						

							CEDAR LAKE GERMAN M. E. SCHOOL, 1850.

							Superintendent, August Einspahr.
							Secretary, Bennie Nitsche. 
									Bible Class:
									Conrad Ortmyer, teacher;
									William Sautter,
									Martin. Musbach,
									George PIiepho.--3.

								
								
									2d Bible Class:
									Martin Sautter, teacher;
									August Einspahr,
									F. Einspahr,
									William Einspahr.--3.

								
								
									Young Ladies' Class:
									Mrs: Sutter, teacher;
									Minnie Piepho,
									Sarah Sautter,
									Louise Piepho.--3.
								
								
									Girls' Class:
									Mrs. Nitsche, teacher;
									Pauline Groman,
									Carrie Ortmyer,
									Julia Groman,
									Emma Fedler,
									Emma Sautter.--5.

								
								
									2d Girls' Class:
									Mrs. Piepho, teacher;
									Emma Einspahr,
									Lydia Mueller.--2.

								
								
									Boy's Class:
									Bennie Nitsche, teacher;
									Martin Einspahr,
									Emil Ejnspahr,
									Walter Einspahr,
									Eddie Ortmeyer,
									Arthur Ortmyer.--5.

								
								

									2d Boys' Class:
									Will Sautter, teacher;
									William Hoffman,
									John Bansie,
									George Hoffman,
									Henry Ortmyer. --4.

								
								
									Infant Class:
									Mrs. Musbach,teacher;
									Lydia Fedler,
									Lizzie Fedler,
									Dora Groman,
									Emma Storgman.--4.
									Total membership, 40.

								
							

						

					

					

						ST. JOHN'S TOWNSHIP.

						

							DYER UNION SCHOOL, 1880.

							Superintendent, Mrs. M. Flanagan.
							Secretary, Frank Seidler.
							Treasurer, Mrs. Templeton. 

									Bible Class.
									Dr. Turner,
									Mrs. Turner,
									Mrs. Dustin.--3.

								
								

									Young Men's Class,
									Mrs. Brewer, Teacher.
									SFrank Scidler,
									Thomas Flanagan,
									John Dustin,
									Frank Jenks,
									George Scidler,
									Barney Flanagan.--6.

								
								
								

									Young Ladies' Class,
									Mrs. Johns, Teacher.
									Alice Davis,
									Katie Johns,
									May Davis,
									Zippie Davis,
									Maud Dustin,
									Minnie Stadfield,
									Willie Davis,
									Flossie Davis.--8.

								
								

									Boys' Class No. 1,
									Mrs. Templeton, Teacher.
									Herman Ohld,
									Charley Scidler,
									Fred Sanders,
									George Claud Smith,
									Claud Dustin.--5.

								
								

									Boys' Class No. 2,
									Mrs. Smith, Teacher.
									George E. Young,
									Charles Stommel.
									Freddie Young,
									Dana G. Smith,
									Eddie Young.--5.

								
								

									Infant Class,
									Mrs. Flanagan, Teacher.
									Alfred Davis,
									Annie Kruse,
									Louisa Davis,
									Bessie Smith,
									Tillie Scidler,
									 Verna Jessie Brewer,
									Katie Young,
									Susie Turner,
									Clara Davis,
									Emma Scidler.--10.
									Total membership, 42.

								
							

						

					

					

						ROSS TOWNSHIP.

						

							HURLBURT UNION SCHOOL. 1867.

							Superintendents Michael Wahl, Jr.
							Assistant Sup't, James Philips.
							Chorister,David Peck.
							Organist, Miss Malita Young.
							Secretary, Miss Susie Guernsey.
							Treasurer, James McKinney.
							Librarians, Miss Orrinda Peck, Randolph Guernsey. 

									Bible Class No. 1. Teacher, James Philips.
									Joseph Guernsey,
									Henry Hurlburt,
									Homer E. Smith,
									Thomas Strong,
									Milan Hurlburt,
									Joseph Pitt,
									George Wieler,
									D. B. Sturtevant,
									Enoch Jones,
									Thomas Roper,
									George Sheffield,
									Orson Bacon,
									E. Bragington,
									Ezra  Furgeson,
									Thomas Frame,
									Solon French,
									B. Cliffard,
									David Guernsey,
									Chester Guernsey, Jr.,
									Isaac Hardesty,
									Orrin Burge,
									Chauncy Bacon,
									F. Williams,
									Samuel Campbell,
									Dr. Peck,
									Dr. Mackey,
									D. M. Daum,
									Otis Guernsey,
									Mr. Dollhoover,
									Mr. Plumer.--30.

								
								

									Bible Class No. 2. John Peck, Teacher.
									Mrs. M. C. Wahl,
									Mrs. J. Sturtevant,
									Mrs. P. Strong,
									Mrs. A. Hurlburt,
									Mrs. L. Sargeant,
									Mrs. C. Burge,
									Mrs. J. Pitt,
									Mrs. S. Guernsey,
									Mrs. A. Frame,
									Mrs. W. Clifford,
									Mrs. S. French,
									Mrs. Tabor,
									Mrs. fF. Jones,
									Mrs. F, Campbell,
									Mrs. I. Peck,
									Mrs. I. Wieler,
									Mrs. A. Furgeson,
									Mrs. J.Sheffield,
									Mrs. G. Guernsey,
									Mrs. E. Peck,
									Mrs. J. Williams,
									Mrs. N. Hardesty,
									 Mrs. J. Beam,
									Mrs. O. Stegmeier,
									Mrs. S. Hurlburt,
									Mrs. V. Hollister,
									Mrs. Emma Wert,
									Mrs. Emma Dollhoover,
									 Mrs. J. Riecker,
									Mrs. E. Plumer,
									Mrs. R. Guernsey.--31.

								
								

									Class, No. 1. D. B Peck, Teacher.
									Orrinda Peck,
									Rosa Stegmeier,
									Abbie Smith,
									Calla Sargeant,
									Annie Peck,
									Flora Patton,
									Lena Wahl,
									Cora Burge,
									Susie Guernsey,
									Etta Campbell,
									Clara Yager,
									Nellie McKinny,
									Lyda Hutton,
									Stella Strong,
									Eda Williams,
									Libbie Sykes,
									May Moran,
									Carrie Hollister,
									Martha Maybaum,
									Ada Peck.--20.

								
								

									Class No. 2. Teacher. Clinton Peck.
									John Sturtevant,
									Randolph Guernsey,
									James McKinny,
									James Frame,
									William Furgeson,
									Grant Peck,
									Orrin Peck,
									James Patton,
									Mark Philips,
									James Tabor,
									Archie Kinworthy,
									Asa Strong,
									George Chandler,
									John Campbell,
									Am. Peck,
									Frank Bpllsoover,
									Schuyler-Hardestey,
									Fred Bragington,
									Burton French,
									Amel Knoblock.--20.

								
								

									Class No. 3. Mrs. Rachel Smith, Teacher.
									Howard Smith,
									Edward Clifford,
									Jacob Hurlburt,
									William Clifford,
									Harry Tabor,
									Vance Peck,
									Henry  Lipp,
									David Young,
									Charles Sargeant,
									Robert Clifford,
									Cal Bellzoover,
									Walter Hogberg,
									Clarence Hogberg.--13.

								
								

									Class No. 4. Rose Hurlburt, Teacher.
									Etta Peck,
									 Celeste Peck,
									Ida Roper,
									Rhoda Smith,
									Addie Guernsey,
									Sophie Meyers,
									Melissie Melcher,
									Lottie Story,
									Jennie Hurlburt,
									Carrie Young,
									Maud Moran,
									Mary Huepel.--12.

								
								

									Class No. 5. Mrs. Sarah E. Niles, Teacher.
									Clayton Strong,
									Lawrence Cooper,
									Harry Beltzhoover,
									Henry Hogberg,
									Jimmy Hutton,
									Richard Nantz,
									Irvin Frame,
									Burton Frame,
									Jesse Porch.--4

								
								

									Class No. 6. Nancy Peck, Teacher.
									Millie R. Smith,
									Carrie Sturtevant,
									Ella Guernsey,
									Emma Guernsey,
									Ora Peck,
									Mary Roper,
									Ella Wert,
									Mary Peck,
									Anna Keuphal,
									Lizzie Moran,
									Bettie Chandler,
									Teny Huebel.--13.

								
								

									Class No. 7. Mrs. E. Guernsey, Teacher.
									Chester Hurlburt,
									Arthur Strong,
									Theodore Yager,
									Hazzy Guernsey,
									George Plumber,
									Albert Morehouse,
									Edward Maybaum,
									Albert Maybaum,
									George Hurlburt,
									George Murray.--10.

								
								

									Class No. 8. Teacher, Malita Young.
									Lucy Niles,
									Fanny Strong,
									Emma Stegmeier,
									Charlotte Roper,
									Jennie Keuphal,
									Ray Guernsey,
									Jennie Maybaum,
									Herbert Morehouse,
									Altie Williams,
									Ada Williams,
									Malita Wert,
									Ollie Beam,
									Clara Beam,
									Ora Peck,
									Ella Beam,
									Gracie Hollister,
									Mina Plumer.-17.

								
								

									Class No. 9. Teacher, Mrs. Mary Wert.
									Gracie Wahl,
									Frantie Guernsey,
									Fannie Hurlburt,
									Maudie Hollister,
									Arthur Wieler,
									Robbie Morehouse,
									Harry Williams,
									Nathan Wert,
									Jay Beam.--9.
									Total membership, 196.

								
							

						

						

						

							DEEP RIVER UNION SCHOOL, 1888.
							Superintendent, Charles Longshore;
							part of year, B. H. Wood.
							Secretary,
							Organist, Mrs. Eva Pattee Wood.
							Treasurer, 

									Bible Class. C. Longshore, Teacher.
									George Wood,
									A. F. Wood,
									Mrs. Wood,
									Mrs. Wood,
									B. H. Wood,
									--- Yager,
									Mrs. Wood,
									Mrs. Yager,
									Nathan Wood,
									W. Pritchett,
									Mrs. Wood,
									Mrs. Pritchett,
									Walter Deety.--13.

								
								

									Young Men's Class. R. Ketchem, Teacher

									G. Wood,
									Lawrence Casbon,
									N. R. Wood,
									Charles Barney,
									Charles Casbon,
									T. Casbon,
									Dick Manty,
									Dick Everts,
									Mark Everts,
									Will Wood.--10.

								
								

									Young Ladies' Class. R. C. Mackey, Teacher.
									Mollie Strong,
									Minnie Marquett,
									Rosa Strong,
									Carrie Strong,
									Minnie Chase,
									Minnie Miller,
									Jennie Gordon,
									Mary Miller,
									Callie Sargent,
									Lizzie Miller,
									Minnie McGraph,
									Dora Yager,
									Eunice Carbeir,
									Anna Johnston,
									Eva Barney,
									Fannie ---,
									Dora ---.--17.

								
								
								

									Boys' and Girls' Class. Teachers, Mrs. Yager and Mrs. B. H. Wood.

									Celesta Peck,
									Stella Casbon,
									Mella Peck,
									Martha Carbein,
									Ida Johnston,
									Lula Wood,
									John Christman,
									F. Chandler,
									Bettie Chandler,
									John Johnston,
									Allie Chase,
									Theodore Yager.--12.

								
								

									Infant Class, Mrs. R. C. Mackey, Teacher.

									Wood Mackey,
									Jerald Billins,
									Wright Mackey,
									Grace Billings,
									Freddy Carbein,
									Willie Strong,
									L. Yager,
									Lottie Strong.--8
									Total membership, 65.

								
							

						

						

							MERRILLVILLE METHODIST EPISCOPAL SUNDAY SCHOOL,
								1862.

							Superintendent, C. L. Merrill.
							Assistant, C. Glazier.
							Secretary, Clara B. Saxton.
							Librarians, Lillie Niksch, Sabra Zuvers. 

									Bible Class. C. Glazier, Teacher.
									J. Coffey,
									Mrs. White,
									Mrs. Coffey,
									Mrs. Randolph,
									C. L. Merrill,
									Mrs. M. Pierce,
									Mrs. Merrill,
									Mrs. C. Klinefelter,
									S. White,
									Mrs. C. Muzzall,
									Mrs. A. Randolph.--11.

								
								
								

									Class No. 2. Mrs. Maria Pierce, Teacher.
									Phoebe Glazier,
									M. D. Ragon,
									August Laison,
									--- Whiteside,
									Floyd Pierce,
									Marion H. Pierce,
									Bert Pierce,
									Claud M. Pierce,
									Ed. Niksch.--9.

								
								

									Young Ladies' Class, Myiel Pierce, Teacher.

									Clara Saxton,
									May Nicholson,
									Lulu Pierce,
									Jessie Bothwell,
									Anna Klinefelter,
									Alice Demmons,
									Sabra Zuvers,
									Nettie Hanson,
									Emma Niksch,
									Ollie Banks,
									Lillie Niksch,
									Rosa Fortune,
									Frances Hyde,
									Stella Ragon.
									Eva Harper,
									Viola Richerson.--18

								
								

									Class No. 4. S. Pierce, Teacher,

									G. Nessenhahn,
									George Boyd,
									Lawrence Niksch,
									Eddie Undine,
									Arthur Merrill,
									Jimmie Undine,
									John Iddings,
									Albert Halsted,
									Willie Smith,
									Teddie Zuvers.--10.

								
								

									Girls' Class. Miss Alice Coffey, Teacher.
									Cora Pierce,
									Ella Ragon,
									Isabelle Harper,
									Maud Bailey,
									Jannetta Cangerty,
									Alta Halstead,
									Arminta Burge,
									Maggie Undine,
									Louisa Gertz,
									Mabel Randolph.
									Della Demmons.--11.

								
								
								

									Infant Class. Miss Angie Glazier, Teacher.
									Nora Pierce,
									Guy Merrill,
									Dora Pierce,
									Harold Iddings,
									Pearl Pierce,
									Harry Iddings,
									Maud Zuvers,
									Della Undine,
									Grace White,
									Ura Halstead,
									Carrie Harper,
									Willie White,
									Willie Nessenhahn,
									Grace Demmons,
									Minnie Nessenhahn,
									Clarence Demmops,
									Mabel Hewitt,
									Celia Demmons,
									Lawrence Hewitt,
									Maggie Demmons,
									Herbert Saxton,
									Florence Bothwell,
									Edna Saxten,
									Floyd Bothwell,
									Alice Boyd.--25.
									Total membership.-88.

								
							

						

						

							BUTLER UNION SCHOOL. 1880.

							Superintendent, E. J. Nicholson.
							Assistant Superintendent, Mrs. Nicholson.
							Secretary and Treasurer, Miss Jesie Bothwell.
							Librarian, Miss Florence Bothwell. 

									Young Men's Class, E. J. Nicholson, Teacher.
									Willie Nicholson,
									John C. McGee,
									Earle Newell,
									Dick Mitchell,
									George Baker,
									Hugh Nicholson,
									Arthur Merrill,
									Daniel Demmon,
									Samuel Smith,
									--- Whiteside.--10,

								
								

									Young Ladies' Class, Mrs. Nicholson, Teacher.
									Mrs. Manda Bothwell,
									Emily Phillips,
									Mrs. R. Phillips,
									Victoria Christianson.
									Jessie Bothwell,
									Lillie Schofield,
									May Bell Nicholson,
									Carrie Dutton,
									Alie Demmon,
									Chloe Dutton.--10.

								
								
								

									Infant Class, John Bothwell, Teacher.
									Alfred Nicholson,
									Hattie Bothwell,
									Clara Nicholson,
									Floyd. Bothwell,
									Florence Bothwell,
									Harry Bothwell,
									Clifford Bothwell,
									James Robinson,
									Alvin Shutt,
									Esther Robinson,
									Willie Shutt,
									Lulu Neweil,
									Nancy Shutt,
									Anna L. Newell,
									Lizzie Shutt,
									Mark Newell,
									Tecumseh Freeman,
									Doc Demmon,
									Julia Christianson,
									Chuza Demmon.--20.
									Total membership, 48.
									Total membership in township, 392

								
							

						



					

					

						HOBART TOWNSHIP.

						

							HOBART M. E. SCHOOL, 1876.

							Superintendent, Mrs. M; Whitmore.
							Secretary, Miss Hattie Rice, also Miss May Gordon. 

									TEACHERS.

									Dr. Turner,
									Mrs. Hanson,
									Mrs. Scoffern,
									Mrs. Spray,
									Mrs. Owen,
									Mrs. Blackhall,
									Mrs. Dr. Gordon,
									John Underwood,
									George W. Scholler,
									Mrs. Whitmore,
									Miss Whitmore.

								
								

									MEMBERS OF SCHOOL.

									Herman Mickleson,
									Fred Craft,
									Frank Craft,
									Chas. Craft,
									Dan Craft,
									Hantz Stemmer,
									George Howe,
									Moses Bullock,
									Mable Hanson,
									Jessie Heartman,
									 Myrtle Nearpass,
									Lizzie Balco,
									Bessie Scoffern,
									Annie Mickleson,
									Hulda Johnson,
									Susie Turner,
									Emily Roper,
									Bessie Spencer,
									Lillie Newman,
									 Bessie Banks,
									Jessie McIntire,
									Ruth Portmers,
									 Mamie Portmers,
									 Gurtie Brown,
									Emily Miller,
									Mellie Howe,
									Pearl Banks,
									Ester Peterson,
									Amanda Nelson,
									Alma Miller,
									Agnes Miller,
									Mary  Orence,
									Emma Johnson,
									 Minnie Tabbert,
									Daisy Rowe,
									Mabel Baker,
									Lottie Graves,
									Hulda Peterson,
									Will Alby,
									Perley Hunt,
									Howard McIntire,
									Robert Roper,
									 Earnest Roper,
									Luther Roper,
									Lottie Baker,
									Liby Wilson,
									Kate Barney,
									Emily Newman,
									Martha Harrison,
									Myrtie Banks,
									Ethel Gordon,
									Rose Truesdell,
									Nellie Chenney,
									Jennie Miller,
									Lida Howe,
									Alfa Bullock,
									Bessie Oar,
									Eddie Gordon,
									Fletcher Call,
									Roy Hanson,
									Eddie Banks,
									Peter Mickleson,
									Luther Roper,
									Mr. Whitmore,
									H. C. Hanson,
									Mrs. Hanson,
									Alex. Ballantyne,
									Mrs. Rice,
									Mr. Portiness,
									Mr. and Mrs. Harrison,
									Howard Gordon,
									Rob Scholler,
									Leonard Owen,
									Mrs. John Gordon,
									George Scholler,
									Homer Nearpass,
									George Stocker,
									Willie Owen,
									Allen Orcutt,
									Rudolph Bofinger,
									Arthur Newman,
									Orsewen Spencer,
									Mortie Miller,
									Frank Feister,
									Eddie Feister,
									Joe Mundell,
									Paul Schillo,
									John Roper,
									Roy Banks,
									Oliver Bullock,
									Gilbert Bullock,
									Harry Miller,
									Charlie Passono,
									Floyd Scholler,
									Owen Roper,
									Charlie Spencer,
									Howard Maybaum,
									Lossie Roy,
									Emanuel Schillo,
									Earl Korause,
									George Burns,
									Joe Burns,
									John Howe,
									Howard Howe,
									Hartly Howe,
									Floyd Scoffern,
									Phonso Smith,
									Lorie Krause,
									Jeff Wilkleson,
									Norma Scholler,
									May Cheney,
									Katie Jacob,
									Julia Jacob,
									Minnie Rice,
									Lil Chase,
									Tillie Brown,
									Carrie Maybaum,
									Edna Croxford,
									May Blackhall,
									Emma Able,
									Bliss Roper,
									Emily McIntire,
									Blanche Peterson,
									Plin Truesdell,
									Christ. Mickleson,
									Calvin Scholler,
									May Gordon,
									Hattie Rice,
									Cora Ostrander,
									Bessie Bofinger,
									May Mundell,
									Agnes Feister,
									Maggie Stresser,
									Carrie Banks,
									Fannie Nash,
									Ida Petterson,
									Mate Reggen,
									Ada Howe,
									Carrie Stocker,
									Carrie Scholler,
									Etta Henderson,
									Ida Webber,
									Maggie McCormick,
									Fannie Smith,
									Laura Bofinger,
									Frona Horner.

									Total membership, 158.

								
							

						


						

						

							HOBART CONGREGATIONAL SCHOOL, 1883.

							Superintendent, Abel Wood; Secretary, M. Ostrander.
							Teachers:
							A. R. Castle,
							Mrs. Andrews,
							A. K.Garhart,
							Mrs. McCollum,
							Mrs. Nuhman,
							Mrs. Davis,
							Hettie Stevens,
							D. Castle. 

									NAMES OF MEMBERS.

									Geo. Kelly,
									M. Ostrander,
									Mary Castle,
									Mrs. Harper,
									Mrs. Marenus,
									Mrs. Kay,
									Mrs. Rice,
									Alice Garhart,
									Mrs. McPherson,
									 A. R. Castle,
									Frank Harper,
									Nellie Parker,
									Mrs. Laury,
									May Johnson,
									Elsie Johnson,
									Walter Shearer,
									Albert Hancock,
									Geo. Lutz,
									Emanuel Lutz,
									Silas Shearer,
									Willard Stevens,
									Willie Smith,
									Harry Davis,
									Geo. Thompson,
									Flossie Davis,
									May Davis,
									Ida McDlaniels,
									Rose Shear,
									Rachel Shearer,
									Robt. Tabbett,
									Earnest Newman,
									Daniel Sholler,
									Fred Warner,
									Ed. Crouse,
									Henry Kehewrl,
									Hattie Quirk,
									Emely Ammenne,
									Cora Ostrander,
									Fannie Croutse,
									Charles Roper,
									Mellie Thompson,
									Sammy Shearer,
									Chas. Passow,
									Frank Feister,
									Polly Davis,
									Willie Wettenberg,
									Clarence Roper,
									Eddie Feister,
									Robby Harper,
									Willie Davis,
									Fletcher Caul,
									Chas. Nuhman,
									Jimmy Shearer,
									Fred Parker,
									G. F. Parker,
									Bertie Ford,
									Ida Lutz,
									Ida Shearer,
									Emma Lutz,
									Mamie Hancock,
									Recky Stemmer,
									Amanda Frieless,
									Hattie Stevens,
									Maggie McCormick,
									Kate Barney,
									Louie Andrews,
									May Andrews,
									Bertha Steven,
									Pearl Kint,
									Lula Johnson,
									Laura Nuhman,
									Katie McPherson,
									Cassie Harper,
									Pearl Smith,
									Daisy Lambert,
									Mable Caul,
									Tressie Loague,
									Allie Smith,
									 Olga Wettingell,
									Matha Smith,
									Lula Ford,
									Hattie Kay,
									Tessie Garhart,
									Ruth Nuhman,
									Mabel Kent,
									Minnie Vanloon,
									Lady Vanloon,
									Delia Brownbrye,
									Clara Brownbrye,
									Amos Johnson,
									Harry Castle,
									Dick Parker.--102.

								
							

						

						

						

							HOBART GERMAN M. E. SCHOOL, 1856.

							Superintendent, F. F. Frank.
							Secretary, Frederic Hormmer. 

									MEMBERS.

									Eddie Harney,
									Charles Wirtenberger,
									Christopher Abel,
									Henry Harman,
									George Lutz,
									Emanuel Lutz,
									Fred Harman,
									Christopher Wirterberger,
									Jacob Wirtenberger,
									Ricka Stemmer,
									Ida Lutz,
									Martha Engebbretht,
									Mary Wirtenberger,
									Ida Shearer,
									Amanda Triebers,
									Carrie Triebers,
									Emma Abel,
									Ricka Wirtenberger,
									May Andrews,
									Loje Andrews,
									Emma Wirtenberber,
									Julia Wirtenberger,
									Bliss Rloper,
									Lena Batterman,
									Annie Mikeleson,
									Lena Mikelson,
									Hano Slemmer,
									Peter Mikelson,
									Harman Mikelson,
									Bert McIntire,
									Frank Harder,
									Howard Gordon,
									Fred Stelow,
									George Young,
									 Fred Parker,
									Eddie Triebers,
									Willie Fox,
									Henry Fox,
									Fred Fox,
									George Wirtenberger,
									Fred Wirtenberger,
									Robert Engelbreth,
									James Roper,
									Melia Triebers,
									Emily Roper,
									May Abel,
									Ida Fox,
									 Fred Harney,
									Willie Harney,
									Frank Abel,
									Willie Wirtenberger,
									Christopher Mikelson,
									Charlie Pason,
									Allen Orcutt,
									Rudolph Boffinger.--57.

								
							

						

						

							HOBART SWEDISH METHODIST SCHOOL, 1887.

							Superintendent, Ellis Anderson.
							Secretary, Willie Olson.
							Teachers,
							Mrs. Anderson,
							Andrew Nolin,
							Lewis Erickson and P. S. Peteison. 

									NAMES OF MEMBERS.

									Oscar Carlson,
									Earnest Peterson,
									Eddie Anderson,
									Leonard Melin,
									Daniel Anderson,
									Axel Peterson,
									Walfred Strom,
									Arwid Helin,
									Willie Olson,
									 Hannah Carlson,
									Axel Helin,
									Celia Peterson,
									Albert Helin,
									Ellen Peterson,
									Axel Carlson,
									Clara Peterson,
									Earnest Strom,
									Blanche Peterson,
									Adolph Helin,
									Ada Peterson.--25.

								
							

						

						

						

							LAKE HOME SCHOOL, 1882.

							Class No. 1, Mrs. Stearns, Teacher.

							Willie Hazelgreen,
							Albian Hazelgreen,
							Bertha Eastwood,
							Marion Eastwood,
							Connie Fabian,
							Walter Fabian,
							August Miller,
							Leta Patterson,
							Minnie Meier,
							Willie Meier,
							Gusta Papka,
							Charlie Papka,
							Martha Schultz,
							Clara Dombye,
							Ina Dombye.--15.

							Class No. 2, Miss Bertha Burt, Teacher.
							Anna Meier,
							Lizzie Meier,
							Anna Miller,
							Lana Miller,
							Minnie Burt,
							Clara Hazelgreen,
							Cora Eastwood,
							Lizzie White,
							Ora White,
							May Brown.--10.

							Class No. 3, Mrs. Corey, Teacher.
							Herman Schultz,
							Albert Schultz,
							Malcolm Hazelgreen,
							Charlie Larson,
							Frank Larson,
							Alfred Thorn,
							Seth Corey,
							Theodore Johnson.--8

							Class No. 4, T. E. Lincoln, Teacher.
							Maggie Burt,
							Mary Peterson,
							Jennie Johnson,
							May Eastwood,
							Katie Fabian,
							Mrs. Lijoln.--6.
							Total Membership, 43.

							In Township, 385.

						

					

					

						CALUMET.

						

							ROSS CONGREGATIONAL SCHOOL, 18--.

							Superintendent, Mrs. W. C. Gallagher.
							Secretary and Treasurer, Miss Mamie B. Gallagher. 

									Bible Class, L. L. Holmes, Teacher.
									Mrs. Woodbridge,
									Frank Southworth,
									Mrs. Frank Southworth,
									Lou Southworth,
									Mrs. Lou Southworth,
									John Johnson,
									Nellie Johnson;
									Wm. Johnson,
									Annie Coodecker,
									Amos Hornor,
									Norma Loucks,
									W. C. Gallagher,
									Katie T. Gallagher,
									Charlie Schafer,
									Mrs. D. F. Hall,
									W. C. Prott,
									Mrs. Ewing,
									Mrs. L. L. Holmes,
									Annie Ewing.--19.

								
								
								

									Intermediate Class, Mrs. W. C. Gallagher, Teacher.
									Amelia Schafer,
									Mary Klahn,
									Lena Klahn,
									Minnie Klahn,
									Steve Reed,
									Lulu Reed,
									Mary Prott,
									Olie McGary,
									Eugene McGary,
									Julius McGary,
									Willie Ewing,
									Henry Ewing,
									Earle Newell,
									May Southworth,
									Delia Schoon.-15.

								
								

									Juvenile and Primary Class, Mamie B. Gallagher, Teacher.
									Hubert Holmes,
									Arthur Holmes,
									Eddie Nelson,
									Willie Nelson,
									Georgie Nelson,
									Harold Woods,
									Chralie Prott,
									Johnnie McGary,
									Ray Southworth,
									Charlie Woodbridge,
									Eddie Johnson,
									Mark Newell,
									Henry Freiwald,
									Eddie Freiwald,
									Freddie Reed,
									Duey Hall,
									Harvey Hall,
									Nickie Moss,
									Ellen Ewing,
									Minnie Shearer,
									Blanche Southworth,
									Rosy Watts,
									Lulu Newell,
									Auna Newell.--24.

									Total Membership, 61.

								
							

						

					

					

						NORTH TOWNSHIP.


						HAMMOND M. E. SCHOOL,
							187-.

						

							OFFICERS.

							Superintendent, Mr. W. C. Belman,
							till September, F. H. Tuthill.
							Ass't Superintendent, Mr. A. A. Winslow.
							Secretary, Miss Belle Weed.
							Ass't Secretary, Miss Flora Wakefield.
							Treasurer, Mrs. J. W. Dake:
							Librarians,
							Miss Ida Fisher
							and Mr. J. Reed.

						

						

							TEACHERS.

							Rev. G. R. Streeter,
							 Mrs. G. R. Streeter,
							Mrs. Frank Nason,
							Miss Luna Freeland,
							Miss Kate Weed,
							Mrs. Fremont Nason,
							Miss Luella Parks,
							Mr. E. Hunt,
							Miss Sara Daggett,
							Mrs. J. Beall,
							Mrs. D. C. Mead,
							Miss Jessie Hunt,
							Mrs. Hunt,
							Mr. Kiersey,
							Mr. N. Parker,
							Miss Allie Johnson,
							Mrs. Carrie Parker,
							Mrs. H. W. Sohl,
							Mrs. J. W. Dake,
							Miss Alice Sohl.

						


						

						

							SCHOLARS.

							Lena Weed,
							Bertha Bump,
							Eva Bump,
							May Barton,
							Myrtle Prichard,
							Sadie Beck,
							Lydia McKnight,
							Cynthia Snodgrass,
							Nora Snodgrass,
							Maggie Stevens,
							 May Tilton,
							Hattie Wilson,
							Laura Hildebrand,
							Jessie Hinds,
							May Lancaster,
							Ida Hisey,
							Allie Hisey,
							Lizzie Munchenburg,
							Mary Munchenburg,
							Bertha Vanness,
							Letha Gillett,
							Lulu Gillett,
							Lottie Corwin,
							Addie Jordan,
							Edith Wall,
							Mary Gutschlag,
							Maud Bell,
							Addie Bump,
							Idabelle Dougherty,
							Lotta Wendrinsky,
							Myrtle Wakefield,
							May Wakefield,
							Will Newman,
							Hal Jones,
							Harry McCoy,
							Colifax Duncan,
							Duncan Hunter,
							Ezra Railsback,
							Frank Stevens,
							Chas. Dougherty,
							Emma Weeks,
							Nellie Weeks,
							Effie Orcutte,
							Clara Knuchal,
							Cleora Webb,
							Leely Carson,
							Mary Kepert,
							Edith Flint,
							Anna Schweiger,
							Sadie Morrison,
							Nellie Smiley,
							Lulu Parker,
							Grace Bell,
							Alice Bump,
							Ethel Campbell,
							Gertie Bostwick,
							Alice Green,
							Barbara Schweitzer,
							Ed. Newman,
							Guy Jones,
							Bert McCoy,
							Leo Beck,
							Dick Jenkins,
							H. A. Kendall,
							Mr. Decrow,
							Henry Dougherty,
							Mamie Ramey,
							Inez Carson,
							Maud Borein,
							Abbie Griswold,
							Laura Hatch,
							Kittie Gerrish,
							Eva Paine,
							 Gracie Miller,
							Alta Parker,
							Myrtle Ramey,
							Carrie Wolf,
							Anna Parker,
							Beatrice Ross,
							Emma Paine,
							Mable Wilson,
							Estella Stacy,
							Nellie Green,
							Linnie Towle,
							Will Mead,
							Sam Malo,
							Harry Stowman,
							George Borem,
							Mel Fleming,
							Archie Ballard,
							Will Ranrey,
							Mr. L. A. Thayer,
							Roland Lewis,
							Verne Odell,
							John W. Reed,
							Elmer Malone,
							F. O. Robinson,
							Geo. Peters,
							G. Hunter,
							G. Taylor,
							Robert Ball,
							J. W. Hardesty,
							Frank Warren,
							Arnold Lusher,
							George Hinds,
							 Mr. Snodgrass,
							Mr. Meeker,
							Thomas Jenkins,
							Chas. Hunt,
							Willie Hocker,
							Chas. Washington,
							Eddie Mashim,
							Dan Scoates,
							Fred Wendling,
							Louie Carrigan,
							Leslie Skellenger,
							Bertie  Skellenger,
							Oliver Wakefield,
							Jessie Glover,
							Bertha Bouser,
							Emma Bouser,
							Della Seigrist,
							Freda Seigrist,
							Calvin Beck,
							Willie Beall,
							Bennie Mead,
							Clayton Root,
							Wilber Abbott,
							Zora Carrigan,
							Willie Hunt,
							Harry $Stamon,
							Dena Malo,
							Chas. Borem,
							Mr. J. G. Ibach,
							Lizzie Heeren,
							Mr. T. M. Smith,
							Mr. H C. Zoll,
							Mrs. L. Beck,
							Miss N. A. Pattee,
							Jimmie Mead,
							Thos. Malo,
							Frank Malo,
							Arthur Porlier,
							Claude Campbell,
							Clarence Ketchel,
							Elmer Wolfe,
							Robert Stature,
							Ethel Streeter,
							Julia Logan,
							Mable Benedict,
							Bertha Hayes,
							Lotta Post,
							Millie Flagg,
							Nellie Points,
							Nellie Fowler,
							Daisy Clark,
							Fay Carson,
							Rilla Flagg,
							Beana Zander,
							Anna Andersen,
							Jennie Oleson,
							Mary Hansen,
							Myrtle Crowell,
							Chas. Gehrke,
							Willie Jones,
							Alfred Borman,
							Ford Hunter,
							Carl Vermett,
							Geo. Shelenger,
							Ellis Dake,
							Orland Parks,
							 Morton Towle,
							Harry Newman,
							Bert Newman,
							Chas. Mead,
							Ralph Streeter,
							Georgie Towle,
							Johnnie Male,
							Elbert Zoll,
							Lelia Zoll,
							Katie Walters,
							Anna Sesser,
							Emma Kungs,
							Mary Kahler,
							Odra Hunter,
							Ella Workinger,
							Anna Dunke,
							Ethel Dake.--208.

						


						

							INFANT CLASS, MISS ALICE SOHL, TEACHER.

							Jimmy Mead,
							Beryl Woods,
							Edith Goodman,
							Volney Post,
							Ethel Crowel,
							Linnie Crowel
							Arlie Parker,
							Vernie Parker,
							Willie Keizer,
							Hattie Crumpacker,
							Charlie Crumpacker,
							Maud Cleveland,
							John Simon,
							Clarence Simon,
							Willie Hooker,
							Myrtle Phillips,
							Charlie Walker,
							Dora Hogue,
							Anna Haines,
							Pearl Thompson,
							Florence Thompson,
							Warren McMannis,
							Frank Bradford,
							Lulu Baldwin,
							Willie Mattis,
							Hattie} Holtz,
							Edna Randolph,
							Robbie Martin,
							David Martin,
							Jessie Vanness,
							George Miller,
							Claude Beall,
							Ethel Merrill,
							Virginia Stamm,
							May Neuman,
							Oliver Wakefield,
							Freddy Towle,
							Katie Flint,
							Joe Schweitzer,
							Frank Schweitzer,
							Gotlieb Vomsh,
							Rosa Vomsh,
							Pearl Beck,
							Minnie Mead,


							

							G. S. Mead,
							Anna Dumnpke,
							Mary Keizer,
							Ernest Keize,
							Mary Goodslaugh,
							Anna Schweeger,
							Emma Schweeger,
							Mary Kaler,
							Mathew Hutchinson,
							Maggie Hutchinson,
							Willie Hutchinson,
							Guy Merrill,
							Albert Gauger,
							Richard Gauger,
							Ida Gauger,
							Evaline Horn,
							Willie Huttel,
							Anna Schultz,
							Amelia Schultz,
							Mamie Morrison,
							Carrie Schneider,
							Hattie Schneider,
							Alvin Green,
							Frankie Beck,
							Allie Cole,
							Pearl Hast,
							Laura Bell,
							Mabel Green,
							Adine Lenz,
							Elenor Lenz,
							Louisa Rich,
							Lillie Rich,
							Lulu Kitchall,
							Clarence Kitchall,
							Ora Thatcher,
							Charlie Schneider,
							Jessie Boyd,
							Martha Kimball,
							Willie Behring,
							Freddy Behring,
							Elric Fisher,
							Hiram Green,
							Nellie Walker,
							Amelia Mundt,
							Minnie Mundt,
							Rindie Kergon,
							Emma Miller,
							Mary Hermon,
							Amelia Fromer,
							Mary Fromer,
							Birdie Stein,
							Ida Gutslaugh,
							Walter Sohl,
							Edith Nason,
							Gracie Wilson,
							Arthur Hillman,
							Robbie Hillman,
							Clarence Porlier,
							Charlie Kuhn,
							Mary Hoover,
							Henry Hoover,
							Roy Hatch,
							Frank Baker,
							Willie Hudson,
							Eugene Davis,
							Ava Lickinger,
							Gracie Du Comb,
							Mabel Wilson,
							Eva Kinnie,
							Claude Hunt,
							Ray Hunt,
							Laurine Washington,
							Emma Sweeger,
							Minnie Sweeger,
							Lizzie Huckleberg,
							Lizzie Fromer,
							Emma Jones,
							Vada Marshall,
							Maggie Livingston,
							Jimmie Hatch,
							Ollie Dumpkie,
							Eliza Schneider,
							Elma Schneider,
							Weedie Jones,
							John Kunz,
							Paul Kunz,
							Lizzie Hohn,
							Altie Parker,
							Mamie Mashino,
							Delia Johnson,
							Willie Jones,
							--- Placeby,
							Willie Green,
							Clara Jirard,
							Gracie Locht,
							Earl Cole,
							Lona Fisher,
							Vada Marshall,
							Lila Shields,
							Jessie Glover--145.
							Total, 353.

						

						

							FIRST CONGREGATIONAL S. S. OF HAMMOND. NAMES OF
								MEMBERS.

							Samuel Deveries,
							 Phoenius Voight,
							Willie Voight,
							Joseph Miller,
							Chas. Ellis,
							Warren McManus,
							 George  Miller,
							Baldie Miller,
							Albert Ellis,
							James Body,
							Fred Brose,
							Luther Wartena,
							Richard Sager,
							Albert Body,
							Benj. Crawford,
							Harry Voight,
							Thos. Jenkins,
							Rob't Boiley,
							Arthur Hunt,
							Theodore Ahlendorf,
							John Kurker,
							Willie Stevens,
							 Eddie Jenkins,
							Chas. Eckman,
							Harry Holmes,
							Shnit Deveries,
							Otto Tieshner,
							Doll Newman,
							Tom Kurker,
							Earnest Bliss,
							Leroy Eastus,
							Harold Holcomb,
							Thos. Johnson,
							William Lewis,
							Mr. Williams,
							H. Williams,
							M. H. Herman,
							Wm. Sprunce,
							Stephen Ripley,
							Geo. H. Lewis,
							Mary Six,
							Olie Hunt,
							Pearl Irish,
							Lily Eckmau,
							Emma Ripley,
							Annie Herring,
							Emma Cubean,
							Caroline Bliss,
							Ida Peterson,
							Josie Albright,
							Daisy Ellis,
							Murtle Fisher,
							Bessie Fisher,
							Flora Brose,
							Ida Bathlomn,
							Jessie Ripley,
							Sallie Plumber,
							Mamie Ahlendorf,
							Anna Mayfield,
							Bertha Williams,
							Iva Irish,
							Mamie Irish,
							Mamie Miller,
							Nellie Holmes,
							Jennie Devries,
							 Elge Irish,
							Grace Parker,
							Minnie Kurker,
							Susie Kurker,
							Ida Barnes,
							Annie Barnes,
							Lucy Eastus,
							Lutie Holmes,
							Mary Eckman,
							Lizzie Eckman,
							Minnie Voight,
							Grace Eastus,
							Clara Holcomb,
							Nora Holcomb,
							Katie McManus,
							Mrs. Holcomb,
							Jessie Crawford,
							Mrs. Murray,
							Mrs. Peterson,
							Mrs. Irish,
							Mrs. Voight,
							Bertha Cobean,
							Ida Tamm,
							Alice Wartena,
							Lulu Herring,
							Clara Sherman,
							Lizzie Ripley,
							Miss Rathfone,
							Miama Laws,
							Lizzie Muchenberg,
							Lettie Good,
							Etta Druley,
							Miss Kurher,
							Miss Guthrie.--99.

						



						

							HAMMOND BAPTIST SCHOOL. NAMES OF MEMBERS.

							Mrs. Schofield,
							Levi Golden,
							Charles Schofield,
							Charley Mead,
							Charles Young,
							Giles Warner,
							Mrs. H. B. Gero,
							Edith Hammond,
							Myrtle Frame,
							Fredie Selgrist,
							Della Selgrist,
							Daisy Flagg,
							Lula Colton,
							Allie Green,
							Nellie Green,
							L. Towle,
							Emma Fischer,
							Emma Gay,
							Addie Jordon,
							Bertha Schofield,
							 Clara Schofield,

							

							Sadie Morrison,
							Katie McManis,
							Eliza Snyder,
							Myrtle Crowell,
							Nellie Fisher,
							Jessie Harfuel,
							Anna Emery,
							Mr. Teetzel,
							Mr. Towle,
							 Mrs. Towle,
							Mrs. Railsback,
							Mr. Mather,
							S. W. Snider,
							Mr. Gfay,
							Helen Nason,
							Mrs. Teetzel,
							Mr. Varney,
							S. B. Thornton,
							Mrs. Thornton,
							S. Hunter,
							Mrs. Fuller,
							Charlie Ewing,
							Otto ---,
							Bessie Mather,
							Vada Marshal,
							Jimmy Hatch,
							Daisy Emery,
							Florence Valient,
							Bertie Bradford,
							L. Eastwood,
							Joy Golden,
							Mamie Irish,
							Charlie Ellis,
							Joe Stebbins,
							Elmer Schofield,
							Mrs. Oalman,
							Grace Schofield,
							Georgie Schofield,
							Madge Bloss,
							Johnie Bloss,
							Albert Towle,
							Madge Stebbins,
							Luceille Stebbins,
							Miley Flagg,
							Edith Nason,
							Cora Abbott,
							Ray Abbott,
							Warnie McManus,
							L. Pugh,
							Freddie W---,
							Freddie Golden,
							Willie Golden,
							Arthur Ellis,
							Daisy Conroy,
							Cora Morrison,
							Pearl Beck,
							Mamie Valient,
							Elmer Keley,
							Jimmie Mead,
							Elma Snider,
							Helen ---,
							Willie Haskins,
							Lena Fisher,
							Maudie Bear,
							Ethal Crowell,
							Willie Haston,
							May Champane,
							Francis Champane,
							Freddie Champane,
							Roy Woodford,
							Robert Mortimer,
							Ray Voliar,
							Linnie Crowell,
							Annie Bell,
							Emma Green,
							Hiram Green,
							--- Green,
							Allie Cole,
							Charlie Dyer,
							Victor Dyer,
							Hattie Aber,
							Montie Ciine,
							Charlie Cline.--104.

						

						

							HAMMOND GERMAN SCHOOL, 1889.

							Superintendent Rev. Willam Haas;
							Assistant, F. Siegrist;
							Secretary, F. Siegrist;
							Treasurer, G. Gehrke.
							Teachers,
							C. Fischer,
							F. Gehrke,
							F. Siegrist,
							Mrs. F. Gehrke,
							Mrs. W. Hopp,
							P. Andells,
							Mrs. C. Fischer,
							Miss R. Wuleschlager,
							Miss M. Haas.
							"Scholars enrolled, 65."
							Total, 76.

						

						

							HAMMOND EPISCOPAL SCHOOL.

							Names not obtained. About 40.

						

						

						

							PLYMOUTH CONGREGATIONAL.

							Names not obtained. About 50.

						

						

							HAMMOND CHRISTIAN.

							Lately re-opened. About 30.

						

						

							EAST CHICAGO CONGREGATIONAL, 1889.

							Superintendent, L. T. Loucks;
							Secretary, Miss Ida Cornthwaite.

							Names notfobtained. Membership, 40.

						

						

							WHITING CONGREGATIONAL, 1890.

							Names not obtained. Probably 40.

						

						

							EAST CHCAGO M. E. SCHOOL, 1888

							Superintendent--Mrs. J. V. Richardson. 

									MEMBERS.
									Clarence Penman,
									Robert Snedden,
									Thos. Galloway,
									Joe Wilson,
									Chas. King,
									Harry Wilson,
									Geo. Dixon,
									Henry McCready,
									Jas. Bartonie,
									Chas. Gorman,
									Thos. Cadman,
									Geo. Gilford,
									Annie Galloway,
									Ruth Lewis,
									Jessie Hunter,
									May Cadman,
									Jessie Atkins,
									> May Lewis,
									Jennie Gilford,
									Jennie Green,
									Effie de Breai,
									Lola Funkhouser,
									Lulu Funkhouser,
									Drew Atkins,
									Alice Williams,
									Adelle de Breai,
									Mamie Riggs,
									R. Hungerford,
									Emma Hungerford,
									Cora Winters,
									Hugh Atkin,
									Will Clinton,
									David Lewis,
									Chas. Funkhouser,
									Albert Lewis,
									George Clinton,
									Ed. Funkhouser,
									John Molyneux,
									--- Gilbert,
									John Dorrance,
									Frank Aikens,
									Daniel Dixon,
									G. A. Atkins,
									Mrs. Atkins,
									Mrs. King,
									Ada Winters,
									Will Simons,
									Richard Stein,
									Eva Pickard,
									Emma Pickard,
									Edna Harper,
									Lidia Rust,
									Mabel McCready,
									Johnnie Harper,
									Emma Salery,
									Lizzie Stevens,
									Clara Robinson,
									Cora Edgell,
									Hilma Frieberg,
									Ida Harris,
									Ethel Evans,
									Blanche Evans,
									Gertie Vangeason,
									Mary McCarthy,
									Ella Stone,
									Ella Galloway,
									Emma German,
									Pearl Green,
									Louis German,
									Eddie Harris.--70.

								
							

						

						

						

							HIGHLAND UNION SCHOOL, 1886. 

							Superintendent, S. N. Coleman;
							Assistant Superintendent, --- Alverson;
							Secretary, Mrs. Alverson;
							Treasurer, Roy Olmsted. 

									Bible Class, Mr. Alverson, Teacher.
									Mrs. Olmsted,
									Mrs. Johnston, 
									Mrs. Simpson,
									Mr. Strong.--4.

								
								

									Intermediate Class, S. N. Coleman, Teacher.
									Grace Johnson,
									Roy Olmsted,
									 Myrtie Olmsted,
									Katy Kudiker.--4.

								
								

									Children's Class, Mrs. Alverson, Teacher.

									Gertie Kline,
									Lulu Reed,
									Nellie Sweets,
									Stephen Reed,
									Daisy Johnston,
									Gil Sweets--6.

								
								

									Infant Class, Mrs. Coleman, Teacher.
									Jessie Newell,
									Mary Jameson,
									Rickie Kline,
									Gertie Zipp,
									Jamie Sweets,
									Mary Zipp,
									Sarah Jamneson,
									Freddie Reed,
									Dewey Hall,
									Effie Haan;
									Harry Hall,
									Wilton Johnston,
									Nicholas Kudiker,
									Walton Sweets.--14.
									Total. membership, 32.
									Total in township, 934.

								
							

						

					

					

					

						

							Attending schools in Hebron from Lake County:

							H. Boyd,
							Mrs. Boyd,
							Miss Mary Boyd,
							James M. Boyd,
							Mrs. Boyd,
							Elbert Boyd,
							 Loren Boyd,
							Effie Boyd,
							Annie Boyd,
							Lillie Boyd,
							James Fisher,
							Thomas Fisher,
							Mrs. L. V. Sarjeant.

						

						

							Attending at Salem school:
							Lucy Westbay,
							Edith Westbay,
							Cora Westbay,
							Ida Gordon,
							Minnie Gordon,
							Walter Stonax,
							Ruth Nichols,
							Ray Nichols,
							John McFarlon,
							Robert McFarlon,
							 Maud McFarlon,
							Charley Porch,
							Mary Porch,
							Jessie Porch,
							Mark Palmer,
							Sadie Wilkinson,
							Geora Wilkinson,
							Florence Teeple,
							John Hipsley,
							Harry Hipsley,
							Ida Hipsley,
							Bessie Hipsley,
							Emma Hipsley.

						

					

					

					

						I am glad to have succeeded so well in obtaining the names of the members of our
							schools, and I here heartily record thanks to those who have so kindly and faithfully
							aided in this effort. For all the townships except North the enrollment is complete
							and satisfactory. A perfect enrollment in North township for the year 1890 could not
							be obtained. There are eleven schools and many children attending more than one
							school. The enrollment and estimate give to this township a larger number in school
							than did the official August report, and so a discrepancy in results will necessarily
							appear. I may fittingly claim a large acquaintance with the past as well as the
							present members of our schools; and look at the names of so many of our gifted young
							children recorded here, and feel sure that some at least of them will fill high and
							honorable positions, I long to say, Beloved children, be sure to give to the coming
							King your choicest, richest, best. Like the children that were once in the Jewish
							Temple, be ready to say, Hosannah to the Son of David!

					

				


				

				

					CHURCH DIRECTORY.

					

					


						BUILDINGS AND PASTORS.

						1. Eagle Creek township contains no village, no saloon, no railroad station, no
							church.
						The preaching places are three: The school house at Plum Grove, Rev. T. H. Ball,
							pastor; the Center school house, Rev. J. N. Buchanan, pastor; and Eagle Creek school
							house. At the Southeast Grove school house, which for many years was a church and
							Sunday-school center, preaching has been discontinued. In this township there is much
							of the richest farming land of the county and many intelligent, cutivated, and
							Christian families; bit for ood and si-flicient reasons they have as yet erected no
							church building.
						2. In Cedar Creek township there are five church buildings: The Baptist in Lowell,
							1856, no pastor; the Methodist Episcopal at Lowell, built in 1870, pastor Rev. J. J.
							Thompson; the Christian at Lowell, 1870, pastor Rev. W. A. Hennegar; the Catholic at
							Lowell, 1869, pastor Rev. Charles A. Ganzer; and the Creston church, 1876, occupied
							mainly by the Methodists, the pastor being the resident Methodist pastor at
							Lowell.
						3. In West Creek there is no saloon and its only village is a part of Creston. Church
							buildings two: The West Crek Methodist Episcopal, present building dating 1869, the
							earlier one 1843, the pastor being the resident pastor at Lowell, and the Lake Prairie
							Presbyterian church, 1872, pastor Rev. J. F. Smith. The first pastor of this church,
							Rev. H. Wason, who became pastor in 1857, still resides near the church and school  house, in his beautiful Lake Prairie home. He has seen
							many changes and has been a part of much of the improvenent that has been made during
							his residence on Lake Prairie of three and thirty years. A pastor, a Christian
							minister, residing in one place for a third of a century becomes a great power for
							good.
						4. In Hanover are four church builings: The Cedar Lake German Methodist, 1855, pastor
							Rev. A. Peters, residing in Crown Point; Zions Church, Reformed, 1859, pastor Rev. H.
							C. Schmidt; the Catholic church Qf St. Anthony at Klaasville, 1861, pastor Rev.
							Charles A. Ganzer, and the Church of St. Martin, Catholic, at Hanover Center, 1869,
							pastor Rev. M. Zumbuelte.
						5. In St. Johns township the churches are three, al1 Catholic: Church of St. John the
							Evangelist, at St. Johns, first chapel 1843, present brick church 1856, pastor Rev. A.
							HIeitmann; Church of St. Joseph at Dyer, 1867, pastor Rev. Joseph Flach; and Church of
							St. Michael, at Schererville, 1874, pastor Rev. W. Berg.
						6. In Center township are ten churches: the Presbyterian, 1847, the present building
							1885, pastor Rev. L. W. A. Luckey; the Methodist Episcopal, 1847, present building
							1860, pastor Rev, Demetrius Tillotson; the Church of the Blessed Virgin Mary,
							Catholic, 1867 a large brick edifice in process of erection this year, spire one
							hundred and forty-one feet in height, to be completed in 1891, pastor Rev. Phillip
							Geuthoff; the Trinity Church, Lutheran, 1869, present large brick structure, 1886,
							pastor Rev. G. Heintz since 1871, succeeded this fall by Rev. August Shuelke, but
							continuing a resident in Crown Point; the North Street Baptist, 1873; German
							Methodist, 1874, pastor Rev. A. Peters; German Evangelical, 1874, pastor Rev. John
							Lutz; Main Street Baptist, 1881; Free Methodist, 1881, 
							pastor Rev. George Day; all these in Crown Point; and Evangelical Church of St. Paul,
							1883, pastor Rev. J. A. Reller, since August Rev. P. Weild.
						7. In Winfield are four churches: the Le Roy Methodist, 1888, pastor the resident
							Methodist pastor at Hebron; the Le Roy United Presbyterian, 1888, pastor Rev. J. N.
							Buchanan; the Deer Creek Methodist Episcopal, 1880, pastor Rev. D. Tillotson; and St.
							Paul's Church at Deer Creek, 1886, pastor Rev. G. Heintz.
						8. In Ross township are two churches: the Methodist Episcopal at Merrillville, 1879,
							pastor Rev. Robert Wilkinson; Church of the Holy Apostles Peter and Paul, Catholic, at
							Turkey Creek, first building 1852, present building of Joliet stone, 1864., pastor
							Rev. Charles V. Stetter, D. D. .
						9. In Hobart township there are ten churches; in the town of Hobart eight; the
							Methodist Episcopal, 1869, pastor Rev. R. C. Wilkinson; the Unitarian, 1876, pastor
							Rev. T. G. Milford; Trinity Church, German Lutheran, 1874, pastor Rev. E. H. Scheips;
							Swedish Lutheran, 1873, pastor Rev. A. J. Malmquist; German Methodist, 1874, pastor
							Rev. A. Peters; Swedish Methodist, 1889, pastor Rev. John Swanson; the Congregational,
							1880, remodeled 1889, pastor Rev. D. W. Andrews; Church of St. Bridget, Catholic,
							18--, pastor Rev. C. V. Stetter. In Lake Station, two, Church of St. Peter and St.
							Paul, Catholic, 1861, pastor Rev. C. V. Stetter; the People's Church,
							undenominational, 18--.
						10. In Calumet are two churches: German Evangelical St. John's Church, at Tolleston,
							1869, pastor Rev. A. Rump; Congregational at Ross, about 1880, a "Union Mission
							Church" or "Band" organization and house having lately become Congregational, pastor
							Rev. D. W. Andrews.

						

						11. In North township are fourteen churches: In Hammond nine, Church of St. Joseph,
							Catholic, 1879, new, two story brick building for church and school, 1889, pastor Rev.
							H. Plaster; Lutheran, 1883, new brick building, south side, 1889, pastor Rev. F. W.
							Herzberger; Methodist Episcopal, 1883, pastor Rev. G. R. Streeter; German Methodist,
							1889, pastor Rev. --- Haas; Baptist, 1887, pastor Rev. B. P. Hewitt; Congregational,
							1890, pastor Rev. W. A. Boroughs; Episcopalian, 1890, pastor Rev. R. C. Wall; Plymouth
							Church, Congregational, 1890, pastor Rev. H. A. Holcomb; Lutheran Church, north side,
							1889, pastor Rev. W. A. Brauer; three in East Chicago, Methodist Episcopal, 1890,
							pastor Rev. Reno; Congregational, 1889, pastor Rev. J. H. Simons, August 16, 1890;
							Catholic Church, consecrated October 26, 1890, Rev. --- Trembler pastor; at Whiting,
							one, Congregational, 1890, pastor Rev. D. A. Holman, and Hollander Reformal Church,
							near Lansing, 1876, pastor Rev. William Dunnewold.
						Total number of church buildings, fifty-six.
						Number of resident ministers, thirty-nine; twelve of these residing in North township
							where a few years ago there was not one. In Center township there are now ten, the
							first resident minister and pastor, Rev. Norman Warriner, having had a home in Crown
							Point as early as 1841. In Hobart there are five; in Calumet only one; in Cedar Creek
							one; in Ross one; Eagle Creek and Winfield have no resident ministers. The other
							townships have three each.

					

					

						STAGES OF PROGRESS.

						In 1840 there were in Lake county no church buildings, a few log school houses.
							Perhaps two Sunday schools, perhaps four. There was one Baptist church organization;
							there were probably three Methodist classes. Population 1,468.

						

						In 1870 twenty church buildings, ten resident pastors, forty places for religious
							meetings, thirty Sunday schools, about twenty-five hundred families. Population
							12,339.
						In 1890 forty-five schools, fifty-six churches, resident ministers thirty-nine, sixty
							places for Sabbath meetings. Population 23,886.

						

						Protestant schools not connected with County Convention: Unitarian School .at Hobart,
							members, 120.

						
							EVANGELICAL SCHOOLS OR REFORMED.
							German: Zion's Church, parochial and Sunday school, 30.
							German: St. Paul's Church, parochial school, 12; Sunday school, 25.
							Dutch or Hollander: Reformed church east of Lansing, Sunday-school children,
								30.
						
						
							GERMAN LUTHERAN.
							 Trinity Church at Crown Point, parochial school, 51; Sunday school, 80.
							 Tolleston parochial school and Sunday school, each 54.
							 Trinity Church. parochial school at Hobart, 40.
							 Lutheran at Hammond, south side, parochial school, 95; Sunday school,
								150.
							 Lutheran at Hammond, north side, parochial school, 62.
							 Lutheran at Robinson Prairie school: house,i Sunday school, 12,
							 Deer Creek Lutheran, 16.
							 Whiting Lutheran (estimated), 39.
							 Swedish Lutheran at Hobart, parochial school, 25; Sunday school, 60.
							 Swedish Lutheran at Lake,12.
							
							 Swedish Lutheran at Miller's Station (estimated), 20. Total, 571.
						

						

							Children in Catholic schools:

							
								Townships.
								Boys.
								Girls.
								Total.
							

							
								St. Johns (3)
								174
								154
								328
							

							
								Hanover (2)
								36
								44
								80
							

							
								Center(1)
								41
								43
								84
							

							
								Ross (1)
								24
								20
								44
							

							
								North (1)
								102
								88
								190
							

							
								Schools, 8
								377
								349
								726
							

						



						In Calumet, Hobart, Wiifield, Eagle Creek, Cedar Creek, West Creek, there are no
							church schools.

						

							Estimating the instructed children in Lowell, Hobart, Lake, and East Chicago at
									74
							and we have'a total of 800
							Lutheran and Reformed 571
							Estimating instructed children at Whiting and Miller's Station 59
							and we have a total of 630
							In all, of schools not connected with Convention 1550
							Reported in August in our schools, including teachers and officers 2570
							Total 4120
							Number of children in the county between six and twenty-one years of age 6753
							Children, then, with no school instruction 2633

						

						These are children all, and tey are in number more than all in our Convention
							schools, officers and teachers included.

					

					

					

						SCHOOLS OF THE PRESENT. (Arranged as to
							townships.)

						
							NORTH TOWNSHIP.
							1. Hammond M. E.
							2. German M. E.
							3. First Congregational.
							
							4. Plymouth Congregational.
							5. Hammond Baptist.
							6. St. Paul's Mission.
							7. Hammond Christian.
							8. East Chicago M. E.
							9. East Chicago Congregational.
							10. Whiting Congregational.
							11. Highland Union.
						
							1. Hammond Catholic.
							2. North Side Lutheran.
							3. South Side Lutheran.
							4. Hollander Reformed.
							5. Whiting Lutheran.
						

						
							CALUMET TOWNSHIP.
							12. Ross Congregational.
							6. Tolleston Lutheran.
						

						
							HOBART TOWNSHIP.
							13. Lake Home Union.
							14. Hobart M. E.
							15. Hobart German M. E.
							16. Hobart Swede M. E.
							17. Hobart Congregational.
							18. Hobart Unitarian.
							
							7. Hobart German Lutheran.
							8. Hobart Swede Lutheran.
							9. Lake Swede Lutheran.
							10. Miller's Station Lutheran.
						

						
							ROSS TOWNSHIP.
							19. Deep River Union.
							20. Hurlburt Union.
							21. Merrillville M. E.
							22. Butler Union.
							23. Turkey Creek Catholic.
						
						
						
							ST. JOHNS TOWNSHIP.
							23. Dyer Union.
							12. Dyer Catholic.
							13. St. Johns Catholic.
							14. Schererville Catholic.
						

						
							HANOVER TOWNSHIP.
							 Cedar Lake German M. E.
							15. Hanover Center Catholic
							16. Klaasville Catholic.
							17. Hanover Evangelical Lutheran.
						

						
							CENTER TOWNSHIP.
							25. Crown Point M. E.
							26. Crown Point Presbyterian.
							27. Crown Point Free Methodist.
							28. Crown Point German M. E.
							29. Crown Point German Evangelical.
							30. Cheshire Hall.
							31. School in the Woods.
							18. Crown Point Catholic.
							19. Crown Point Lutheran.
							20. St. Paul Evangelical.
						

						
							WINFIELD TOWNSHIP.
							32. Le Roy Methodist ,Episcopal.
							33. LeRoy United Presbyterian.
							21. Deer Creek Lutheran.
						

						
							EAGLE CREEK TOWNSHIP
							34. Plum Grove Union.
							35. Eagle Creek Union.
						

						
							CEDAR CREEK TOWNSHIP.
							36. Orchard Grove M. E.
							37. Egypt Union.
							38. Lowell M. E.
							39. Lowell Union.
							40. Cedar Lake Union.
							22. Robinson Prairie Lutheran.
						

						

						
							WEST CREEK TOWNSHIP.
							41. Lake Prairie Presbyterian.
							42. Bruce Union.
							43. Pine Grove Union.
							44. Oak Grove Union.
							45. West Creek M. E.
						

						

					

					

						SCHOOLS OF THE PAST. (Arranged as to
							Townships.)

						

							NORTH TOWNSHIP. Sheffield, Lake George, Hessville,
								Ousley, lst German M.E.5

							CALUMET TOWNSHIP. Sand Ridge, Clark Station 2

							HOBART TOWNSHIP. Ensigns, Lake Station 2

							ROSS TOWNSHIP. Hickory Top, Vincent's, Adams,
								Underwood's, Handley's, 1st Butler's 6

							ST.JOHN'S TOWNSHIP. 1st Dyer school 1

							HANOVER TOWNSHIP. Graves or Upper West Creek,
								Brunswick 2

							CENTER TOWNSHIP. Center Prairie, Prairie View, Red
								Cedar, Crown Point Baptist, Main Street Baptist, North Street Baptist, Rhode's
								Mission 7

							WINFIELD TOWNSHIP. Deer Creek, Pleasant Prairie,
								Hickory Point. 3

							EAGLE CREEK. TOWNSHIP. Southeast Grove, Center or
								Bryant's, Morrison's, 1st Eagle Creek, 1st Plum Grove 5

							CEDAR CREEK TOWNSHIP. Pleasant Grove, Robinson_'s
								Prairie, lst Lowell Union, Clark's, Jones', Buckley's, Shelby 7


							

							WEST CREEK TOWNSHIP. Fuller's or Lower West Creek, 1st
								Oak Grove, Buncombe, River Ridge, Livingston's 5

							Total 45

						

						Several of these schools, not now in existence, have been briefly noticed. In regard
							to others of these forty- five schools, the names of their officers and even the facts
							of their very existence have already passed out of the knowledge of most of the
							present generation of our Sunday-school army.
						Their names are rescued from oblivion. The good they did yet lives on earth, is known
							in heaven. A few of these are only closed at present for the want of officers to carry
							them on.

						("Oh, where are the reapers?")

						But now we count forty-five schools of the past and forty-five of the present.
						If a stranger should ask, "Why are so many schools discontinued, in only fifty years,
							in so rapidly growing and prosperous a county as Lake?" the answer would be: Because
							the early pioneer centers for schools and religious meetings are not our centers of
							population now, in these days of fourteen railroads; and because in many neighborhoods
							the pioneer American religious families, who sustained Sunday schools, have given
							place to other families from the Old World, some of whom have their church schools in
							the large railroad centers, some of whom have no schools.
						Christianity is not dying out in Lake county. As will be seen in the church
							directory, we have built fifty- six churches in fifty-six years of Christian
							occupancy. We have now forty-five Sunday schools, and eight Catholic schools, and
							fourteen Lutheran and Reformed schools, in all sixty-seven schools where the Christian
								 religion is taught. Adding to these the forty-five of
							the past and we have had in fifty years one hundred and twelve schools. Adding to our
							fifty-six church buildings twelve others removed or used for other purposes, and it
							appears that we have had in fifty-six years, schools, 112; and church buildings,
							68.
						The exact figures of the last May enumeration of children between six and twenty-one
							years of age, as kindly furnished for this work by the Superintendent of the Public
							Schools, F. E. Cooper, are the following: 

								North township, 1,945
								Calumet, 301
								Hobart, 653
								Ross, 504
								St. Johns, 650
								Hanover, 328
								Center, 1,051
								Winfield, 187
								Eagle Creek, 184
								Cedar Creek, 546
								West Creek, 404
								TOTAL, 6,753.

							
						

						These may be placed at the present time, October, 1890, in round numbers thus: 
								North, 2,000
								Hobart, 650
								St. Johns, 650
								Center, 1050
								Eagle Creek, 190
								West Creek, 400
								Calumet, 300
								Ross, 500
								Hanover, 330
								Winfield, 190
								Cedar Creek, 550
								TOTAL, 6,800

							
						

						And all these, it should be remembered, are over six and under twenty-one years of
							age, while in our Sunday  schools are many under six and
							more than twent-one years of age.
						The number in the schools in the different townships, including the Catholic and
							Lutheran children, is the following: 

								North 1,425
								Calumet 115
								Hobart 670
								Ross 436
								St. Johns 370
								Hanover 150
								Center 597
								Winfield 96
								Eagle Creek 85
								Cedar Creek 431
								West Creek 192.
								Total 4,567.

							
						

						Hundreds of these are over twenty-one years of age. In Ross township the proportion
							of men and women to the children is large.
						The entire population of Lake county, according to the United States Census of this
							year, is the following, and, as it may be a matter of interest to see our changes, the
							population for 1880 is also given:

						

							
								 
								1890.
								1880.
								 
								1890.
								1880.
							

							
								North
								9,631
								2,540
								Center
								2,894
								2,854
							

							
								Calumet
								944.
								 
								Winfield
								583
								544
							

							
								Hobart
								2,197
								1,650
								Eagle Creek.
								647
								721
							

							
								Ross
								1,427
								1,584
								Cedar Creek.
								1,691
								1,457
							

							
								St. Johns
								1,686
								1,513
								West Creek
								1,201
								1,219
							

							
								Hanover
								985
								1,009
							

							
								 
								 
								 
								Total
								23,886
								15,091
							

						

						

						It may be well for us, while examining our religion work and growth, to look at a few
							more facts as brought out by the Census reports. In 1880 there were twenty- one
							counties only in Indiana, with less inhabitants than Lake county. Or, from the head of
							the list of counties, ranged as to population, Lake county was the seventy- first. Now
							Lake county is thirty-fifth in rank, with fifty-seven below in population
						In ten years Lake county has increased in inhabitants 8,795. Five counties only,
							Allen, Madison, Marion, St. Joseph, and Vanderburg, have increased more in number. The
							per cent. of increase for Lake county is 58.28. The next largest per cent. is 43.76.
							Porter County has increased in the last ten years in population only 825, and has a
							population of only 18, 052. Ten years ago La Porte county had twice the population of
							Lake (30,985). It has increased in these years only 3,460, or 11.17 per cent. In
							railrads, in growth for the last ten years, in a continuous orgaized Sunday- school
							growth and work, Lake county stands first in Indiana.
						Some curious results appear in dividing the number of the population in each township
							by three and comparing the quotients with the number of children in each township. In
							Hanover and West Creek the numbers are nearly the same. But in North Township, to
							obtain the approximate number of children, the population must be divided by five. And
							the population of St. John's township needs to be divided by two and a half, or more
							aourately by two and six-tenths.)
						Let us look once more over our eleven townships, at some figures, in their
							conneotion, not flattering.

						

						

							Number of children without religious instruction.


							
								North,
								520
								Center,
								453

							

							

								Calumet,
								186
								Winfield,
								91

							

							

								Hobart,
								000
								Eagle Creek,
								99

							

							

								Ross,
								68
								Cedar Creek,
								115

							

							

								St. Johns,
								280
								West Creek,
								212

							

							

								Hanover,
								178
								[ ]
								___ 

							

							

								Total,
								[ ]
								[ ]
								2,202

							

						

						This total from August report was 2,633.
						Take, now, from the reported school attendance the number of those over twenty-one
							and under six years of age, and also the number counted twice in Hobart, Hammond, and
							Crown Point, where many attend two schools, and add those two numbers to the smaller
							of the above totals, and then add also the number of children under six years of age
							yet having sufficient maturity to receive religious instruction, and there will be a
							total of fully 3,000.
						After fifty, years of effort--may it be called diligent and prayerful effort?--in one
							of the best school and church counties of Indiana, here is an unpleasant array of
							figures.
						The enrollment of most of our schools, name by name, is here; the numbes gien for the
							Catholic and Lutheran and Reformed are, for the most part, offical; and the
							public-sohool enumeration can not be questioned. Figures and facts are sometimes
							stubborn things. We of Lake county will do well to look these in the face. In Crown
							Point we have Young People's Christian Endeavor Societies, and King's Daughters, and
							send yearly our special contributions for foreign missions,--and this is surely
							well,--and have sent missionaries to India, and have had in 1890 one
							small school in the township outside of Crown Point, among four hundred children; six
							hundred and fifty being  within the town,. It is true
							that in all our townships there are some extenuating circumstances; but it is also
							true that we are not doing what we easily might do, what we surely ought to do, for
							the hundreds--the THREE THOUSAND--for whose spiritual welfare few seem to care. There is not one Mission Sunday School Lake county.
						Yet the Sunday-school work in Lake has surely not been in vain. The Methodist,
							Baptist, and Presbyterian pioneers laid foundations that are enduring. Among them were
							men and women of thorough education, of strong force of character; others were
							uncultivated but strong in religious principle; and in the name of the Lord they set
							up their banners. The results of the teachings, of the prayers, of the Christian
							songs, of the good examples set, by those who are soon to cease from their labors, can
							by no human mind be estimated. But well do we know that of such, their "labor is not
							in vain in the Lord."

					

					

						ERRORS CORRECTED.

						By some slip of pen or pencil, on page 92 the date of organizationn ol the
							"Christian" school at Hammond is given as the date of organization of the church. The
							following record gives the correction : "December 5, 1888, was organized at Hammond a
							Christian church, the second in Lake county."
						Under the heading "Schools of the Past," page 65, forty-five schools are named. To
							these may be added, in Center township, School Grove; in Winfield, Pleasant Hill; in
							West Creek, Mrs. Bonham's; in North, Ewen's; in Hobart, Oak Ridge; at least five more,
							making fifty of these schools. See extracts from reports and from secretary's journal
							where these are mentioned.

						

						If somne inquiring young reader should ask why this correction was not made when
							"Schools of the Past". was written, the answer is, because this book was not written
							nor the type set up in the order of the pages.

					

					

						OUR MISSION WORK.
						The American Sunday-School Union in 1888 gave a commission to the Lake county
							Secretary, appointing him as Missionary for that society in northwestern Indiana. In
							Lake county he had the Lake county portions of those two noted river valleys known as
							the Calumet Region and the Kankakee Region. Both of these have been noted in many past
							years for fur-bearing animals and for wild water fowls. The Calumet Region of late has
							come into note for commerce and manufactures.
						In the Kankakee Region of Lake county, between the "shore" line and the river, are
							now living about sixty families. Nearly every family the Missionary has visited. There
							are now four district schools, and three Sunday schools are or have been. When land
							can be bought here and residents can all become landholders, there may then soon be
							five times sixty families, and then the era of church-building will surely commence.
							There will be five, perhaps seven, centers for schools and for religious meetings, and
							a few hundred children will need care and cultivation. If the large land owners of the
							present prove to be patriotic and philanthropic, this large area of lowlands, of
							island groves, of sandy ridges, of bayous, and of muskrat and mink and raccoon homes,
							of trees stored with the wild bees' honey, of long reaches of river solitudes, with
							bright, sunny bathing places and fishing grounds in summer time, will soon be a
							prosperous and highly desirable portion of the county. Here, in a few years, may be
							found the gardens and the  pasture grounds .to supply
							the manufacturers in the. Calumet Region with vegetables and fruits and melons, with
							milk and butter and honey, with flowers and beef and hay. Here, too, will be large and
							rich fields of grain.
						The temptations in this region will be somewhat peculiar, and here will be needed
							those safeguards and restraints which faithful Sunday-school teaching will place
							around the homes, that now are and are yet to be, for securing the virtue of childhood
							and youth. It will never do to give up the precious, promising young children, that
							even now are here, to thetemptations around them, to the forces of evil. Sunday
							schools and churches must be here, and who will help in this "Mission Work?"
							Contributions for this Kankakee Valley work have been received by the present
							missionary of the American Sunday-School Union from the near Chicago and from distant
							Boston, and from New York City a subscription promise has been received for aid in
							building the first proposed church. Near by are men of means who have financial
							interests along this Kankakee, and they ought to show an interest in the welfare of
							the children.
						Contributions for this work can be made direct to the missionary at Crown Point,
							whose field extends into Newton and Jasper and Starke counties, and into La Porte and
							Porter. In the valley portion of these counties there is work in abundance for more
							than one to do.
						Contributions may be sent also to the society, The American Sunday-School Union, 1122
							Chestnut street, Philadelphia, a society that sustains about one hundred missionaries,
							that publishes excellent library books, and that furnishes the best of
							undenominational papers, quarterlies, and lesson helps for hundreds of thousands of
								 chlldren. It is recognized by very many that this
							society, with "its long and honorable history," is "the most effective agency in our
							land for the gathering and saving of the neglected children." Business men of Chicago,
							like Carson, Pirie, Scott & Company, like Marshall Field, and many others, give
							nobly to sustain its missionaries. Will not the prosperous citizens of this rapidly
							growing Lake county look after the interests of their own Kankakee Valley field?



						

					

				

			

		

		


			


				


					PUBLICATION8 OF AM. S. S. UNION.

					The Sunday-School Missionary, monthly, ten cents a year.
					The Sunday-School World for teachers, five copies, 14 cents each
						for three months.
					Young People's Paper, weekly, five copies, one dollar a
						year.
					The Picture World, for Little People. Five copies, 75 cents for
						one year.
					Scholars' Lesson Paper, four-page monthly, ten copies to one
						address, 40 cents a year, or one-third of a cent a copy.
					Primary Lesson Paper, an eight-page monthly, for ten copies, 60
						cents a year.
					The Union Quaredy, eight at 30 cents a quarter.
					Primary Quarterly, four at 10 cents a quarter.
					Subscriptions received at Crown Point or at Philadelphia. T. H. BALL, Missionary.

					

					Lake of the Red Cedars, T. H. Ball, Publisher. Sent by mail on
						receipt of fifty cents.

				

			

			

			

				

					CONTENTS.

					


					PAGE.
					Introductory Notes 7 
					School in the Woods, 74 
					S. S. Pioneers 8 
					Cedar Lake German M. E., 75 
					Center Prairie, 16 
					Oak Grove, 76 
					Presbyterian School, 18 
					Shelby Union, 77 
					Mrs. H. W. Holton, 20 
					Robinson Prairie, 79 
					Fifty Years Around Cedar Lake, 26 
					 Dora Seeger's, 80 
					Pleasant Grove 33 
					Le Roy Union, 83 
					The Grove Schools, 35 
					Hurlburt, 84 
					Center School, 40 
					Schools at Ross, 85 
					Merrillville School, 40 
					Woodvale, 86 
					Hobart Schools, 43 
					Schools of 1888, 87 
					Lake Home, 46 
					Scheffiled School, 88 
					Lowelll Schools, 49 
					Lake George, 88 
					Lake Prairie, 54 
					Hammond Schools, 89 
					Buncombe Union, 55 
					East Chicago, 92 
					Pine Grove, 55 
					Whiting School, 93 
					Egypt Union, 57 
					S.S. Convention, 93 
					Butler Union, 57
					Places of Meeting, 93 
					Dyer Union, 58 
					Constitution, 94 
					Clarke Union, 59 
					Conv. Presidents, 94 
					Ousley Union, 59 
					Summary of Officers, 98 
					Handley School, 60 
					Extracts from Conv. Records, 101 
					Jones School, 60 
					WEST CREEK.
					Missionary Address, 106 
					West Creek Schools, 61 
					Sowers and Reapers, 119 
					West Creek M.E., 64 
					Semi-Centennial Song, 123 
					Schools of the Past, 65 
					Addenda, 125 
					Crown Point M. E., 69 
					Abstacts of Reports, 125 
					Crown Point Baptist Schools 71 
					Journal Extracts, 130 
					Crown Point Geman M. E. 73 
					School Enrollments, 136 
					Crown Point Ev. 73 
					Church Directory, 179 
					Crown Point F. M, 73 
					Reformed Schools, 188 


					

					PAGE.
					Lutheran Schools, 183 
					U.S. Census Figures, 190 
					Catholic Schools, 184 
					Children Without Religious Instruction, 192 
					Schools of the Present, 184 
					Schools of the Past, 187 
					Errors Corrected, 193 
					P. S. Enumeration, 189 
					Our Mission Work, 194 

				

				The last date on page 68 should be 1867.

			

			


				GRACE M. HAYDEN,
				Born January 25, 1881. Died May 19, 1890.
				Member of West Creek School.

			


			


			

				 MRS. M. J. DINWIDDIE,
				Died March 15, 1888; about 70 years of age.

				

			

			
				Poem

				
					"Gone in the ripeness of a rounded life;
					Gone in the fulness of a goodly age,
					Gone from this world of sorrow and of strife;
					Gone to receive a deathless heritage.
				

				
					Gone from earth's joys, and from its pain and cares;
					Gone from its broken band, its light and love;
					Gone from its beauties, and its toils and snares;
					Gone to a brighter, lovelier world above.
				

				
					In all our gatherings one more vacant place;
					She will go in and out at home no more;
					But she now sees the Saviour's glorious face;
					She rests in peace upon the deathless shore.
				

				
					For her we need not mourn, we need not weep,
					So safe, so blissful in that 'better land;'
					Let us make sure that when in death we sleep,
					We too, may enter 'mid the 'happy band.'"
				

				--"Poems and Hymns," page 131.

			


			

			

				WHEN I AM DEAD.

				
					"How much would I care for it, could I know
					That when I am under the grass or the snow--
					The ravelled garments of life's brief day
					Folded and quietly laid away,
					The spirit let loose from mortal bars,
					And somewhere away among the stars--
					How much do you think it would matter then
					What praise was lavished upon me, when,
					Whatever might be its stint or store,
					It neither could help nor harm me more?
				

				
					If, while I was toiling, they had but thought
					To stretch out a finger, I would have caught
					Gladly such aid, to buoy me through
					Some bitter duty I had to do:--
					Though when it was done they said (maybe
					To others), they never said to me,
					The word of applause, so craved, whose worth
					Had been the supremest boon of earth,
					If granted me then--'We are proud to know
					That one of ourselves has triumphed so.'
				

				
					What use for the rope, if it be not flung:
					Till the swimmer's grasp to the rock has clung?
					What help in comrades' bugle blast,
					When the peril of Alpine heights is past?
					What need that the spurring paean roll,
					When the runner is safe beyond his goal?
					What worth in eulogy's bluntest breath,
					When whispered in ears that are hushed in death?
					No! no! If you have but a word of cheer,
					Speak it while I am alive to hear."
				

			





			



			

				LAKE COUNTY. INDIANA, 1890
				Scale 3 miles to the inch. T.H. Ball.

				Copyright, 1890. by T.H. Ball.

			

		

	

