
     ----CITATION---- 
        Beard, Charles Austin, 1874-1948.. American citizenship. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2011).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAB8217
                    
                     ----FULL TEXT----
        
                    
                    
                                       
      
           
                
                                        
                            
                            
                            AMERICAN CITIZENSHIP
                                                            
                            
                                                            
                            



                                        

                                                            

                                                                               

                                
THE MACMILLAN COMPANY
NEW YORK - BOSTON - CHICAGO - DALLAS
ATLANTA - SAN FRANCISCO
                                                            
MACMILLAN & CO., LIMITED
LONDON . BOMBAY . CALCUTTA
MELBOURNE
                                                            
THE MACMILLAN CO. OF CANADA, LTD.
TORONTO



                                        
                                        


                                        

                                        
                                        

                                                            
AMERICAN
CITIZENSHIP


                    

BY
CHARLES A. BEARD
ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF POLITICS IN COLUMBIA
UNIVERSITY

                    
AND

MARY RITTER BEARD



                    
New York
THE MACMILLAN COMPANY
1914
                    
  
                    

                    
                    
                    
All rights reserved
                    
                  




                                        

                                        
COPYRIGHT, 1914,
By THE MACMILLAN COMPANY.

                    
                    
Set up and electrotyped. Published April, 1914. Reprinted
June, 1914.


Norwood Press
J. S. Cushing Co.-- Berwick & Smith Co.
Norwood, Mass., U.S.A.


                                        
                    

                                        

                                        
PREFACE
                    
IN view of the large number of textbooks on civics already
available, some very decided reasons should be forthcoming
from those who venture to add another one to the long list.
Our first plea in justification of this volume is our belief that
the books on government now offered to the schools have certain
fundamental defects.
An examination of the extensive collection of texts in the
Library of Congress, which embraces all of the most recent
books on civics, shows that they fall into two groups: those
which are formal and legal, and those which are "sociological,"
in character. The authors of the first group err, in our opinion,
in treating government as a multitude of rules already well
settled which, when committed to memory, are calculated to
make good and wise citizens. The authors of the second group,
it seems to us, in their revolt against the mechanistic theory
of government, err just as much in minimizing those concrete
political and administrative processes by which social work of
a public character is accomplished and in emphasizing in civics
private activities which are remote from official operations. For
example, the principle of the separation of governmental powers,
so scorned by the sociological school, is in fact more important,
as we try to show, than half of the beneficent enterprises undertaken
in the name of modern collectivism.
And both groups of books are equally in error in so far as
they seem to regard civic life as static or settled rather than
dynamic and progressive. By treating government in all its
manifestations as a machine rather than a process, and by treating




social institutions as accomplished facts rather than as phases of
social evolution, we must obviously put the pupils in the position
of automatons moving in a world already finished--whereas
we should regard them as creative factors in social life.
We are also unable to agree with those who view civics as a
mere community study. In our opinion this is liable to be both
superficial and anti-social, in so far as it stresses street-cleaning,
gas plants, and local charitable institutions to the almost total
exclusion of the fundamental outside influences which condition
the life of the community. Just as the mother cannot act intelligently
in the home unless she knows about the play of outside
forces on the home, so the citizen cannot act intelligently in the
community unless he views it in its proper relation to the state
and nation. Perhaps the garbage cart is the only community
institution which is purely local in character. All other essential
matters--water, milk, food, clothing, shelter, education,
income, and freedom--cannot be determined by community
action; they are of state and national concern. The simpler
community matters might very well be taken up in the eighth
grade in place of some of the history now given there.
Another serious objection to the books on civics now available
is that they are written almost wholly from a masculine
point of view and appeal only to boys, destined to be voters.
As a matter of fact, the vast majority of pupils in the high
schools are girls, and if civics concerns only potential voters the
subject should be confined to boys except in those states where
women are enfranchised. But, in truth, civics concerns the whole
community, and women constitute half of that community. They
are mothers whom society holds largely responsible for the
health and conduct of citizens; they are engaged in industries
and professions of all kinds; they are taxpayers; they are subject
to the laws; they suffer from the neglect of government as
much as do the men; and they are just as deeply interested in
government--whether they vote or not. Any work on civics
which ignores the changed and special position of modern
women in the family, in industry, before the law, and in the




intellectual life of the community is, therefore, less than half a
book.
Although we believe that the spirit of a book and the method
of approach are more important than any technicalities in arrangement,
we have not adopted the general plan which follows
without considering those problems of proportion, induction,
and progressive development which have thus far drawn a great
deal of attention from teachers of civics. There is, for instance,
the vexed question whether the immature student should begin
with local or national government. We have not been oblivious
to the long and eloquent arguments which teachers have made
over this issue; but it has seemed to us that both sides are
so equally balanced that a discriminating person may decide
either way.
The chief point usually made in favor of approaching through
local government is that it is more concrete and simpler. We
have come to the conclusion, on carefully weighing the matter,
that this argument is largely illusory; that the concreteness and
simplicity are more imaginary than real. The federal post office
is as concrete as the town hall and the ways of Congress are
not more mysterious than the devious methods of the town
caucus which constitutes the "invisible" local government.
The tariff sheets of charges posted at the local railway station
under orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission may not
be as concrete as the living, breathing poundkeeper or road
supervisor of the village; but any civics which treats them as
any less real is worse than wrong--it is pernicious. Then take
the family with which the apostles of simplicity would fain
begin. Is there in all the world anything more complex than
the really important truths about this ancient institution?
No method of approach to government can in fact be simple.
Our first word, as Pollock and Maitland say at the beginning of
their History of English Law, must cut a seamless web too large
for any human eye, and all we can do is to watch the whence
and whither of the few threads which fall under our eyes. In
very truth, it would seem that all subjects save mathematics and



                                                            
languages are beyond the grasp of the immature pupil, and even
the mathematicians and philologists have their warnings for us.
But in a democracy it is essential that the citizens should have
as clear an outlook as possible upon government and its problems
and, though the complexity of all approaches to civics
would bid us halt, the need of things must overcome our scruples.
We have simply chosen to start with the individual and
his position in industry and his rights under the law. A score
of other ways might have been chosen with equal justification,
perhaps, but a beginning had to be made somewhere.
We have given little consideration to the problem whether
ours is the best government in the world, not because we are
wanting in proper patriotic sentiments, but because the answer
to that question is of little moment as compared with that
greater question: is ours the best government which it is possible
for the American people to establish and maintain?
We have tried throughout this book to emphasize the great
principles of government rather than to give a description of
the intricate details of political organization and social work
which will be obsolete in all probability before high school
students have reached the voting age.
At the close of each chapter we have placed some simple
questions based on the text, and we have given a few leading
topics with references to one or more standard works, a complete
list of which appears in the appendix.1 In the appendix
also will be found an extended list of questions which require
more or less research on the part of the students, and the
teacher will make use of them or not, according to the amount
of time which may be devoted to the course.
In our opinion, civics should be taught in the first year of the


1 Unfortunately, most of the live material on practical civics is in the periodical
literature; but knowing full well the difficulties which confront the teacher
of large classes who attempts to make use of scattered articles, we have confined
our bibliographical references to a few books which are readily available. We have
appended a copy of the federal Constitution with amendments, and we have constantly
cited it in the text. It is important that the student should acquire the
habit of examining its language carefully on every point covered by it.



high school for two fundamental reasons. The first is that a
large number of pupils drop out after the first year, and if the
purpose of instruction in civics is good citizenship, the subject
should be placed in the course of study at the point where the
most students will be reached. The second reason is that a
study of the concrete political and social life of our age and
country ought to precede, not follow, the more abstract study
of past ages and of countries which we have never seen.
This volume, therefore, does not fit into the accepted scheme
in which civics is disposed of by a few general and cursory
reflections made during the closing weeks of the American history
course at the end of the fourth year. It is an invitation
to teachers to introduce the subject during the first term of the
first year of the high school, and by the use of the additional
topical references they can make the course as advanced as the
circumstances warrant.
                    
C. A. B.
M. R. B.
NEW YORK,
January, 1914.


                                        
                                      


                                        

                                        

                                                            

                                        
TABLE OF CONTENTS
                    
                 
                    
PART I
HUMAN NEEDS AND THE GOVERNMENT
                                        
CHAPTER                                    PAGE
 THE NATURE OF MODERN GOVERNMENT3  
 FOOD, CLOTHING, AND SHELTER8
 THE FAMILY21
 CIVIL LIBERTY34
 PROPERTY RIGHTS 54
 POLITICAL LIBERTY 64


                                        
                                       
                    

                    
PART II
THE MACHINERY OF GOVERNMENT--OFFICERS,
ELECTIONS, AND PARTIES
                    
 THE GREAT PARTS OF AMERICAN GOVERNMENT79
 THE NATIONAL GOVERNMENT 95
 STATE GOVERNMENT 121
 THE GOVERNMENT OF CITIES130
 GOVERNMENT IN COUNTRY DISTRICTS 140
 POLITICAL PARTIES 145
 REPRESENTATIVE GOVERNMENT AND DIRECT DEMOCRACY159


                    
    
                    
PART III
                    
THE WORK OF GOVERNMENT
                    
 THE SERVICES RENDERED BY THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT 173
 THE WORK OF THE STATE GOVERNMENT 219



                                                                                                 
CHAPTER                                                PAGE
 HOW THE CITY GOVERNMENT SERVES THE COMMUNITY 242
 THE WORK OF RURAL GOVERNMENT 271
 THE GOVERNMENT AND PUBLIC OPINION 287
RESEARCH QUESTIONS298
THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES 312








                                        

                                                            

                                        
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

FACING PAGE

Those on whom we depend for Coal  6
Shucking Oysters for the Market  12
Congestion in a Smaller City  12
How Thread is spun To-day  16
A Little Mother  30
A Home Factory  30
Freedom of Speech and Assembly  42
An Event in the Lawrence Strike of 1912  60
Dorr calling upon his Followers to take up Arms for the Right to Vote 70
President Wilson reading his Message to Congress  87
The White House  110
Justices of the Supreme Court  118
Open-air Voting in the Eighteenth Century  151
A National Irrigation Plant  194
The New York Bread Line  228
A Victim of an Industrial Accident  230 
Night Work in a Glass Factory  230         
A Chicago Court for Delinquent Girls  246
A Policewoman  250
A Municipal Milk Station  258         
Food Inspection  258
The Need of Healthful Play  262
An Exhibit showing the City as a Farmer  266 
Good and Bad Roads  275
In the Southern Cotton Fields To-day  278
Mass Meeting in Cooper Union, New York  288











                                        

                                                            

                    American citizenship
                    

                    


PART I
                                        
HUMAN NEEDS AND THE GOVERNMENT


                    



                    
CHAPTER I

THE NATURE OF MODERN GOVERNMENT
                    

                    
 The old notion of the government as a mystery.                 


                    
 Government formerly conducted for the benefit of a ruling
class.
 Our political terms recall older days.
                    

                    

                    
 Government now viewed as the people's servant.
                    

                    
 The government not a mystery.
 Necessity for government grows out of our dependence
upon one another.
 We perform duties and secure rights through the government.
 The government helps where the individual cannot help
himself.


                    

                    
 The plan of this book.
 The purpose of the teaching of civics.
                    

                    
 Private virtues in public service.
                                        

                    

                    

                    

                    
                    



The old notion of government as a mystery.--Until
recent times government was everywhere regarded as something
mysterious and beyond the ken of ordinary mortals.
Indeed it is so regarded in many countries of the world to-day,
and as we call to mind the pomp and ceremony which surround
the courts of kings, we ourselves are likely to be impressed
with what the old writers called " the majesty and
divinity of sovereigns." Military display, gilt and tinsel
decorations, and gorgeous pageantry have been regularly
employed by rulers to keep the people in awe of public authority
and to prevent them from becoming too familiar with
affairs of state. Even writers on political science have
often warned their readers against inquiring too closely




into the origin and nature of government and have sought
to instill a spirit of veneration quite apart from any understanding
of the government.
Government formerly conducted for the benefit of a ruling
class.--Many generations ago in England, to which country
our government owes its origin, the king and his nobles
were the government, and they held that it was the business
of the mass of the people - the peasants, merchants, and
artisans - to pay taxes to support the rulers and to bear
arms in wars waged for their benefit. The people there are
still called " subjects," not citizens; the army is the "royal
army"; the navy is called the "royal navy"; and as a
wag once said " nothing but the debt is national." This
calls to mind the olden times when the government was
little more than a big policeman and tax-collector, and its
purpose was to benefit the ruling class.
Our political terms recall older days.--Many of our terms
of politics are derived from older days, when the people were
regarded as subjects under a government rather than citizens
cooperating through a government. Even the word
"government" itself comes from the Latin word gubernare,
meaning to rule, which implies some as masters and others
as subjects. The great word "patriotism" comes from pater,
or father, which carries with it the notion of authority above
rather than the more democratic idea of fraternity or coiper-
ation among equals.
Government now viewed as the people's servant.--By
a long and gradual process, which cannot be described here,
the power of government was wrested from the king and his
nobles and declared to be vested in the people, or, to speak
more accurately, in the voters. So it has come about in the
United States that the government is not a special group of
persons selected by exalted royal authority and empowered
to rule over us, but is simply a certain number of citizens
set aside in each village, township, county, city and state,



and in the nation, and instructed by the voters to undertake
certain tasks for the people. These officers are either elected
directly by the voters or appointed by officers who derive
their authority from the voters. Moreover, we now speak
of our people, not as "subjects," but as "citizens," and of
the government not as a "sovereign," but as a "servant,"
doing those things which the voters decide should be undertaken
by public authorities.
The government not a "mystery."--Under the circumstances,
we do not regard the government as a mysterious
institution, but simply as an agent to serve the community,
--to do work for the good of the people, - work which
cannot be done as well by private persons and companies.
It is true that this ideal is not perfectly carried out in practice,
but it is a great gain to have established the principle
that the purpose of government is not to sustain a ruling
class, but to satisfy the needs of the people which cannot be
better met in some other way.
The necessity for government grows out of our dependence
upon one another.--We have a government in the United
States simply because we all have needs which we cannot
satisfy by our own individual efforts. Only a Robinson
Crusoe can live without a government of some sort. Every
American family cannot produce its own food, build its own
shelter, protect itself from criminals and epidemics, educate
its own members at home, carry its own products to the consumers,
and fetch its purchases from the four corners of the
earth. We are, in fact, dependent upon one another for
liberty, health, and safety, as well as for the necessaries of
life. We cannot see or know all those persons upon whom
we are dependent, - the miners down in the depths of the
earth, the girls in the cotton mills of New England, the
farmers on the Western plains. We cannot meet them
face to face and know that they have been fairly paid or
justly treated for their labors from which we have benefited.




We perform duties and secure rights through the government.
--It is just because we cannot individually do justice to
those who serve us or secure justice for ourselves that we
must have a government. The farmer, for example, cannot
be sure that the coal that keeps him warm in winter has been
dug only in mines where proper safety appliances have been
used to prevent the great loss of life among the miners,
unless the government makes certain wise laws and carefully
inspects all of the coal mines. The purchaser of food
and other commodities cannot know whether the rates
charged for freight by railways are just and fair, but the
government may investigate this matter and fix rates that
are proper.
The government helps where the individual cannot help himself.--
To sum up, the purpose of government, as we view
it in our day, is to do those things which cannot be done
well or justly by individuals working alone, and to regulate
the doings of private persons in such a manner as to improve
the general standard of life, labor, and education. The very
essence of government, according to the democratic ideal,
is coöperation or union of effort for the common good. This
does not mean that the individual should be less industrious,
temperate, or virtuous, but that whenever and wherever we
can accomplish better results or have great and beneficent
work done more easily by uniting our efforts in the government,
we should do so. When the government builds a
levee or regulates railway rates, it does not take away the
courage or virtue of any citizens. It simply does what the
citizens, no matter how courageous or virtuous, cannot do
without combining to do through a central committee or
bureau called the government.
The plan of this book.--In viewing the government as an
agent of common welfare, we have divided this book into
three parts: to show (1) which of our personal needs are
beyond complete individual satisfaction and involve governmental



                    

                    
Courtesy of National Child Labor Committee
    
THOSE ON WHOM WE DEPEND FOR COAL    
                    







action; (2) how the great branches of the govern-
ment, national, state, and local, are organized to deal with
these needs; and (3) what work the government now undertakes
in recognition of these needs.
The purpose of the teaching of civics.--In considering
our government under these three heads, we shall try to give
some idea of its history and its various branches. But
above all we shall endeavor to show how our daily work
brings us into touch with the government, what principal
issues the voters are thinking about to-day, and how the
citizen and voter can take part in controlling the government
and in creating the public opinion to which the government
must yield. What is perhaps most important of
all is that the student should know that there is always work
to be done to increase the efficiency with which the present
government performs its tasks, to perfect the machinery of
government, and to improve its functions as a public servant.
In the proper study of civics, therefore, the citizen
not only learns how the government works, but acquires an
interest in helping to improve it
Private virtues in public service.--It is an ideal of every
good citizen to leave the world a little better than he found
it. Intelligent voting is one way of attaining this ideal;
for by intelligent voting, old and established public work
may be improved and new and beneficent services may be
undertaken. Religion, education, interest in one's fellow-men,
and all those virtues which lift mankind above the
brute kingdom may be as nobly employed in advancing the
common good through governmental service as in elevating
private conduct through precept and example.



                    

                    
                                Questions
                    
 What is the advantage in having the government regarded as
a mystery?
 Why do we have a government at all?
 For whom does the government exist?
 Which is better: to be regarded as a citizen or as a subject?
 What is meant by "public servants"?
 Name a country where people are still regarded as subjects.
 Name a country besides ours where people are regarded as
citizens.
 What is meant by coöperation?
                                        

                                        

                    
Additional Reading
                    
THE GOVERNMENT A MEANS OF COÖPERATION AMONG INDIVIDUALS:
Ward, The Social Center, pp. 1-18.


                    

                    
                    

                    

                    
                    
CHAPTER II

FOOD, CLOTHING, AND SHELTER
                                        

                                        
 The connection between food, clothing, and shelter.
 Changes in industry bring changes in government.
 Life and work in olden times.
                    

                                        
 How the family took care of itself.
 A livelihood reasonably certain.
 Old-fashioned workshops and factories.
 Commerce and trading of less importance.
                                        

                    

 The industrial revolution.
 The division of labor.
                    

                    
 How the division of labor brings the government into
action.
 Increased travel and transportation.
 The government and the quantity of goods produced.
 The demand for foreign markets raises questions of foreign
policies for the government.
                                        

                    

 The factory system.
                    

                    
 The consumers' interest in the factory system.
 The owner's interest.
 Owners who do not manage their factories.
 The laborer's interest in industry.
 The wages system.
 The capital and labor question.
                    

                    

 How the government becomes interested in housing.
                    

                                        
 The majority of people in cities do not own their homes.
 Public regulation of housing.
 Rural homes.


                    

                    

                                        



The connection between food, clothing, and shelter and
the government.--It may seem strange at first thought to
connect food, clothing, and shelter with government, but in
fact the way we obtain these necessities determines, in a



                                        
large measure, the nature of the government and the work
which it has to do. We have only to compare the govern,
ment of a big city with that of a rural region to discover an
obvious illustration of this truth. It is the different ways
which people have of living and working in cities that require
many more public services, such as waterworks, gas plants,
street lighting, tenement inspection, sewers and collection
of wastes, and a score of government activities which are
not required in the country at all. Then one could go on
to multiply illustrations by calling attention to the disposal
of government lands, the regulation of railway rates, the
tariff, labor laws, forest conservation, dairy inspection, and
innumerable other matters which bring our struggle for
food, clothing, and shelter into contact with the government.
Changes in industry bring changes in government.--Furthermore,
it is the changes in our ways of securing food, clothing,
and shelter that are principally responsible for changes
in the nature and work of government. It is because the
ways of meeting these great human needs now in use are
so different from the methods employed in other ages, that
our governments have so many problems totally different from
those of governments a generation or more ago. These
problems are very troublesome and difficult to understand,
but it is necessary to try to grasp them, because the work of
modern government would otherwise be meaningless. We
can, perhaps, best approach the matter by noting the most
important industrial changes which have come over our
country since independence from Great Britain was obtained.
Life and work in olden times.--Our early American
ancestors lived in the country or in very small towns surrounded
by the fields from which their principal food supplies
came. They produced at home almost everything that
was needed. The men and women, assisted by their children,
grew their own food and made all their coarser clothing.



                    
                   
The men hewed down the forests and built their own houses
and made their simple furniture. The women spun and
wove, helped in the fields, made bread and soap and carpets
and candles, and did their own sewing by hand. The children
were not compelled to go to school, and if they went at
all, it was only for a few months in the winter.
How the family took care of itself.--Each family was then
practically self-supporting and independent of the outside
world for the real necessities of life. There can still be seen
here and there in the North, old-fashioned homes which show
how independent the former dwellers were of merchants,
travelers, manufacturers, and railways. In the great fireplaces,
wood from the neighboring forest was burned, so that
there was no dependence upon coal miners and railways for
fuel. In the huge "Dutch" ovens, the family baking was
done. In the spacious attic or in a special house stood the
spinning wheels, reels, looms, and dye vats where carpets and
coarse cloth were made and dyed. In the tool house there
was a forge and the blacksmith's tools, where the simple agricultural
and domestic implements were wrought by hand.
In the cellars and closets stores of food were laid by for the
winter from the field and orchard and, in the smokehouse,
bacon, hams, and quarters of beef were cured for the family
use. In the South, similar conditions existed, except that the
labor on the large plantations was performed by slaves. One
who wishes a mental picture of the old days needs only to
visit the home of Washington at Mount Vernon, where all
the old tools, implements, and household equipment are
preserved intact.
A livelihood reasonably certain. - Luxuries like tea and
silks were imported by the well-to-do families, but the
fundamental needs were supplied at home. Not without hard
labor, it is true, but certainly by hard labor the family was
secure against the bitter sting of poverty, with its dire uncertainty.
Helpless old people were cared for by their




children or by their neighbors, and the families helped one
another in times of illness, or when specially laborious tasks
had to be performed.                                        
Old-fashioned workshops and factories.--When Washington
was inaugurated President, only three per cent of the
people lived in towns of over eight thousand. In the country,
where most of the people dwelt, the men, women, and
children did not work for wages, but in order to satisfy their
own wants. They were thus their own masters for the
most part, because they owned the land and the tools with
which they worked. Even the artisans in the towns were
frequently independent because they worked with hand
machinery which they owned themselves or expected to
acquire at the end of an apprenticeship. Moreover, the
poor of the towns and the country regions of the East could
look forward to a life of independence by acquiring cheap
land in the West. Slaves were, however, without property
and bound to the soil.
Commerce and trading of less importance.--Money did
not circulate as it does to-day. Barter and trade ran through
the whole system of business. Country people brought their
produce to the stores; the retailers passed it on to the wholesalers
in exchange for manufactures. For example, the corn
and bacon of the Middle West were shipped down the Mississippi
to New Orleans, where they were exchanged for
molasses, whisky, tea, coffee, and other commodities. There
were but few joint-stock companies or corporations engaged
in business. The manufacturer or business man superintended
his own plant. Outside of the government securities
there were only a few stocks and bonds to be sold on stock
exchanges, so that the field of finance and banking was
very narrow. Great riches were made principally out of
land speculation and fortunate shipping ventures at sea, or
by trading with the Indians. There was relatively little
travel, and if any considerable number of people did not



                    
                    
                    
Courtesy of National Child Labor Committee.
                    
                    
                    
SHUCKING OYSTERS FOR THE MARKET
                                        
                                        
                    
                    
                    

CONGESTION IN A SMALLER CITY
                                        
                    



                    
                    

like the rates of a stage driver, they could easily encourage
the establishment of a competing concern.
The industrial revolution.--One has only to imagine the
ways of living and working in those old days and compare
them with the modern ways to realize how great has been
the change. Indeed, writers call this break with old methods
"the industrial revolution," and justly point out that it has
wrought vaster changes in human life than all the previous
revolutions since the beginning of civilization. It was,
however, such a peaceful revolution, and came about so
rapidly, that many people still think the thoughts of the old
world while they perform their daily labor in a new one,
and sometimes declare that inasmuch as it was not necessary
for the government to concern itself with regulating the
safety of stage coaches, it should let railways conduct their
business with the same freedom from interference. To
realize the connection between government and ways of
gaining a livelihood, let us bring together here a summary of
changes which were brought about by the industrial revolution.
The division of labor.--The first great change we should
note is the division of labor, for this destroyed that old
independence of the family from the outside world, and
made us all dependent upon one another. Nowadays the
individual specializes in one or two trades. There are
people, for instance, who spend their lives watching machines
stick pins into papers, or put heads on matches, and who
could not possibly make a whole pin or a match. Instead
of each family performing all, or nearly all, of the tasks
necessary to produce the articles the members use, we have
the family dependent upon some very special trades, such
as cotton spinning or automobile manufacturing. Of course
we are speaking now mainly of manufactures, but even in
the farming regions, the people no longer make their clothing
and their farming implements. There are not many




farmers to-day who can shoe a horse, sharpen a plowshare,
and half-sole a pair of boots.
This specialization is geographical as well. There are
countries and regions which specialize in grain production,
so that we have great areas exporting wheat and corn and
importing other foodstuffs and manufactures. Some regions
specialize in iron and steel; others in fruits and dairy produce,
and so on. Such specialization requires large receiving
and distributing centers, warehouses, canneries, and markets.
How this division of labor brings the government into action.
--This specialization touches the government in many
ways. In the old days, for example, when people produced
and cooked their own foods, they knew what ingredients
entered into them. They could attend to the purity of their
food without laws about the subject, or, if they chose to be
dirty and careless, the guilty parties were the principal
sufferers. In our day, on the other hand, the canners of
food and packers of meat do not have to eat their own products,
and consumers in order to be sure of certain standards
of purity have demanded pure food laws and the inspection
of manufacturing concerns and shipments to prevent adulteration.
Increased travel and transportation.--A further result of
this specialization, which also involves the government very
directly, is the necessity for extensive transportation systems.
Food must be sent from place to place by train and steamer,
and the rates and arrangements for freight handling affect
both the producer and consumer of foodstuffs. The element
of what is called "monopoly" enters in here, because the
number of railway lines between two centers is necessarily
limited, and not even one line can be built without the
approval of the government. In fact, in the United States
the governments--federal and state--have contributed
enormous sums of money and vast areas of land to the
companies which have constructed the transportation systems.




Thus a double link is formed between the government
and the transportation of food.
The government and the quantity of goods produced.--
Another important element in the production of foodstuffs
is, of course, the quantity. Even here it is not merely the
industry of individuals which counts. The government
may foster certain industries, such as sugar production, by
tariffs and bounties. By its system of taxation it may
encourage or discourage agricultural improvements. By
agricultural colleges and experiment stations and model
farms, it may spread knowledge which will enable the
farmers to increase their crops. The conservation of the
forests in a proper manner affects rainfall and the washing
away of rich soil. Irrigation develops vast arid regions.
Levees prevent overflows of rivers, and canals drain swamps.
The demand for foreign markets raises questions of foreign
policies for the government.--Specialization has one more
governmental aspect. Our producers must be able to sell
their produce all over this country and in foreign countries.
If clothing makers, carpenters, and lumbermen cannot buy
food, farmers cannot buy clothing and have homes built.
Thus the question of facilities for marketing and transportation,
of bringing producer and buyer together, of opening
foreign markets,--matters which were once thought to be
wholly private concerns,--are brought more or less within
the scope of government.
The factory system.--The second great change brought
about by the industrial revolution is the factory system--
the production of both food and clothing in great buildings
by special groups of laborers operating expensive machinery
which they do not own. This system has a triple interest:
for the consumer, for the owner, and for the laborer.
The consumer's interest in the factory system.--As we have
pointed out in the case of food supplies, adulteration of all
kinds may enter into production when the consumer ceases




to direct it personally. This applies to clothing as well
as foodstuffs. Silks may be stiffened by solutions of tin;
cotton and shoddy may be mixed with wool; and sham
leather soles for shoes may be made out of paper. Glucose
mixed with jam is perhaps not as dangerous to health as
paper-soled shoes. In view of the extent to which adulteration
is carried on, the consumer is beginning to ask for protection
by the government in his struggle for good cloth-
ing as well as for pure food. Moreover, clothing is frequently
made in tenements and sweatshops in cities where
contagious diseases flourish, and may spread from the makers
to the wearers. The consumer is also interested in the cost of
production in factories.
The owner's interest.--The owner's concern in the factory
arises from the necessity of paying interest on the capital
invested and his natural desire to make a profit out of the
business. Factory owners are, therefore, constantly struggling
against too much interference by the government on behalf
of the consumer and the employees, and also against
combinations of employees, known as trade unions, which
fight to raise wages and reduce hours. Orders from government
factory inspectors requiring them to put their buildings
into a safer and more sanitary condition may cause so
much expense as to compel them to quit business, and the
success of a trade union in raising wages may take away all
of the profits and make impossible the payment of interest
on the investment. Again, factory owners usually derive a
benefit from the protective tariff on the goods they produce
(p. 183), and they are always on the watch to increase the
rate of protection or at least to prevent the government
from cutting it down too low. Modern thinkers on industrial
questions are inclined to hold, however, that any business
that cannot maintain safe and sanitary plants and pay
decent wages is "parasitic"; that is, a prey upon the health
and wealth of the community, and should be abandoned.



                    

                                        
Courtesy of National Child Labor Committee.
                                        
                                        
HOW THREAD IS SPUN TO-DAY


                    


                    
                    


Enough has been said to show, at least, that the factory
owner has a deep concern in the way the government is conducted.
Owners who do not manage their factories.-- And it should
be noted that factory owners to-day are in quite a different
position from what they were fifty years ago. Most great
factories are now owned by companies or corporations in
which many persons have joined in the common investment.
Such factories are not conducted by those who own them,
but by hired managers, whose business it is to see that the
investors receive the interest and dividends on their capital
regularly. There is a limit to the amount of wages that such
managers can give for their first care is to pay the investors
their interest and profits. If they do not do this, they
are discharged for incompetency. In old days, when the
owners of the factories actually managed them, they might
have been willing in hard times to forego their profits
and even the interest for a short period, in order to pay
good wages and keep their employees busy. But the modern
factory is a more "heartless" affair, for its many owners
may be scattered all over the world, and their chief concern
usually is to get their interest and profits. This condition
also puts a new problem before the government.
The laborer's interest in industry.--Other aspects of the
factory system affect principally the laborer. The conditions
under which the industry is carried on, the light and
sanitation of workrooms, the use of unguarded, dangerous
machinery, hours of work, wages, employment of women
and children, - these and other matters affect the health,
the leisure, the purchasing power, and the morals of the
workers. According to the last census there were 6,615,000
factory workers in the United States.
Foreign labor in industry.--The garment and needle
trades, moreover, employ mainly foreign men and women,
so that any discussion of the clothing industry brings us




to a consideration of the relation of the government to
immigration. Indeed, the overwhelming majority of the
factory and industrial wage workers of the United States
are foreigners or immediate descendants of foreign-born
parents.
The wages system.--With the factory system and the
specialization in industry came perhaps the most fundamental
change of all--the enormous increase in the number
of those who work for wages. In the days of agriculture
and handicrafts, the producer (except in the slave states)
was generally the owner of his own tools and the produce of
his labor was his. He consumed part of it and exchanged
the balance, usually by barter, for the commodities which
he had to buy. To-day there are millions of wage workers
in the United States and within a generation, at the present
rate of increase, they will constitute a majority of all the
people. That is, a vast number of men and women do not
produce for themselves what they consume, but are paid in
wages for their work and are directly dependent for their
livelihood upon the prosperity of the several industries in
which they work.
The capital and labor question.--In older and simpler
days, when agriculture was the chief occupation, the wages
question was not very significant from the point of view of
government. The farmer who owned his land took the produce
for his own and bought very little. But under the factory
system the perpetual question is: how much of the total
product belongs to the laborer and how much to the owner
of the tools? This question grows in importance as the
number of industrial wageworkers increases, and it forces
itself upon the government in many ways. It involves the
right of working men and women to form unions, to strike
for higher wages, shorter hours, and better conditions of
labor, and to interfere with those who would take the jobs
left by strikers. It has led to the formation of socialistic



                    
parties which demand that the great industries should be
owned and directed by the government.
How the government becomes interested in housing.--
Even that other great human need--shelter--raises grave
governmental questions. We can no longer live in caves;
nor can we go out into the forests, cut down trees, and build
rude huts. Our homes must be sanitary, well ventilated,
of proper size, and secure from criminals and the vicious.
The majority of people in cities do not own homes.--Those
who are rich enough can settle the problem of shelter for
themselves; but the great mass of the inhabitants of our
cities are too poor to command these necessary elements of
proper shelter. The majority of them cannot own their
homes. In Detroit, Michigan, only 22.5 per cent of the
inhabitants owned their homes free of mortgage, and only
39.1 per cent owned homes at all in 1900; and Detroit had
more home owners than any other large city in the country at
the time. In one assembly district in New York only fourteen
out of 13,662 families owned their homes in 1900.
Public regulation of housing.--In the cities, therefore,
millions of people are dependent in a large measure upon
circumstances beyond their personal control for the excellence
of the shelter they enjoy. This leads to governmental
interference in regulating the construction and management
of tenements and rented houses, and also to some demand
that American cities follow European examples in the construction
of model houses for renters. The provision of
proper shelter leads to other questions: the taxation of the
land upon which houses are built; car fare, sanitation and
inspection, garbage disposal, water, fire protection, and a
host of other matters which are governmental in character.
Rural homes.--Unsatisfactory shelter is not confined to
cities, moreover. In the country are often to be seen filthy
and neglected houses. Sometimes one sees cases where the
cattle are far better housed than the family. There is,



                                        
however, in the country more family responsibility in the
matter of shelter than in cities, where the vast majority of
residents are renters.
It is apparent from this brief review of the way in which
the government may be employed in helping us secure the
three great material needs of human life,--food, clothing,
and shelter,--that civics should not be a "lifeless" subject.
On the contrary, it has the deepest interest for all who care
for the welfare of themselves and the countless millions of
their fellow-citizens.
                                        

                                        
                                        
Questions
                                        
 What is the relation between food and the government?
 What is the relation between clothing and the government?
 What is the relation between shelter and the government?
 What changes have taken place in our way of procuring
these things since the days of our great-grandfathers?
 How have these changes affected the government?
 What is meant by division of labor or specialization?
 Tell all you know about the factory system of to-day.
 What is the owner's interest in that system?
 What is the laborer's interest in it?
 What is the consumer's interest in it?
 How do we see these interests reflected in the government?





Additional Reading


SOCIAL RESULTS OF THE INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION: Beard,
City Government, pp. 1-30.
THE GOAL OF ECONOMIC ENDEAVOR: Burch and Nearing,
Elements of Economics, pp. 1-30.
CHANGES IN AMERICAN INDUSTRY: Burch and Nearing, pp. 158-
188.


                                        

                                        
  


                    
CHAPTER III

THE FAMILY
                    

                                        
 Family life a community concern.
                    

                                        
 Family life necessary to the proper rearing of children.
 Noble virtues cherished in the family.
 Family helps develop industrious citizens.
 How the outside world penetrates the home.
 Wages and the home.
 How the home affects the government.
                    

                    

                    
 Many different kinds of homes.
                    

                                        
 The home of the man who works at night or for long hours.
 Homes where mothers are breadwinners too.
 Homes where the mothers are the sole breadwinners.
 Homes where children are breadwinners.
 Homes which are tenement workshops.
 Homes of negroes.
 Homes of the poor whites.
 New public duties to the home.
                    

                    

                    
 The home and government.
 The rights and duties of parents and children under the law.
                    
                    
                                        
 New rights which the law gives to women.
 How the law goes into the home.
                                        

                    

                    

                    

              
Family life a community concern.--Food, clothing, and
shelter are, as we have seen, needs common to all the people,
and, in the struggle for these necessities of life, the government
can aid in many ways. A wholesome family life is
also a great human need and, although it may seem on first
thought that the government has nothing to do with the
home, a second thought will show that even the private
life of a family cannot be lived wholly apart from the
government.



Family life necessary to the proper rearing of children.--
Love and affection between men and women and the care
of little children are needs as old historically as protection
from cold and hunger. In fact, the family is perhaps the
oldest human institution or association of which we have a
record. It is difficult to imagine little children being properly
cared for outside the family circle, although in exceptional
cases children are better off in public and private institutions
than with their parents. Family life is a deep human
need, because it is necessary for the rearing of children,
without whom the community cannot go on at all. Infants
and growing boys and girls need the physical care
and the love and sympathy of parents in order that they
may get a good start; for what people are in later life depends
in a very large measure on the kind of childhood
which they have. If parents bring up ignorant and diseased
children, the community suffers from the loss of intelligent
citizens, and may, in fact, have to support the children in alms-
houses. It cannot be said, therefore, that the government,
or rather the community, can be indifferent to the kind of
family life which is maintained in its midst. On the other
hand, the family should see to it that the government gives
due attention to all of its requirements which are public in
character.
Noble virtues nourished in the family.--In the family are
nourished many of the finest virtues upon which orderly
community life depends. How deep and important are
the ideals of fatherhood, motherhood, child life, affection,
loyalty, care for the helpless, and unselfishness which develop
wherever there is a wholesome family life! The
family represents the first little group where the young and the
old, the clever and the dull, the strong and the weak, learn to
live together and to work together in harmony and affection.
Here the virtues of good citizenship are discovered,
such as the knowledge that the act of one person may hurt



others, that overwork, whether on the part of parents or children,
is harmful, that selfishness produces evil results, that
the opinion of others should be listened to and studied.
It is through the family that women who first loved only
their own little children have grown to care for the welfare
of all little children; that women who have sacrificed and
worked for their own children have learned to be interested
in the struggles of all women to rear their children properly;
and that men with families of their own to work for have
understood and respected the struggles of other men to maintain
proper homes. The community which the government
serves is in many respects simply an enlarged family.
The family helps develop industrious citizens.--The family
also furnishes a motive for men and women to work hard
and live honorable lives. There are very few people who
can, or who desire, to live and to work for themselves alone.
The vast majority of adults work in order that they may
take care of their families--their children, their wives or
husbands, their old parents, their brothers or sisters. In
nearly every family there are dependent persons--children,
invalids, or aged persons; and mothers, while rearing babies,
find it hard to make a living by working out of the home,
and usually depend, if possible, upon the earnings of the
husband or the older children.
How the outside world penetrates the home.--Not only do
influences go out from the family to affect the character of
the community and the government. The influences of the
community penetrate deeply into the family, for members
of the family have associations and work more or less outside
of the walls of the home. The strongest and most obvious of
these influences are the work which the members do to earn
the living and the amount of the wages they are paid.
If the work is dangerous, the breadwinner may be injured
or even killed--as thousands are every year on railways,
and in mines and factories. By such accidents happy homes



are broken up and the members of the family are thrown
into poverty. Diseases of all kinds, moreover, are connected
with various industries: tuberculosis, for example,
is contracted in insanitary clothing factories and mills and
carried into the home. Then there are the moral influences
surrounding the work of young and old in the places where
they earn their living, and these may completely destroy all
the good work of the careful mother in rearing her children.
Wages and the home.--The amount of the family earnings
is, of course, a matter of deep concern. It determines, within
limits, the kind of house that is rented or built; the amount
and quality of the food that is consumed; the opportunities
for culture and enjoyment that are secured. If the family
is unable to take care of itself, its members lose heart and
often drift downward. If the family cannot provide for
the sick and aged, they become public charges, and alms-
houses and hospitals take the place of the home. While it
is true that some families by thrift and intelligence may
make smaller wages go farther than careless families can
make higher wages go, it is nevertheless true that, taking
things by and large, bigger wages mean more sanitary homes,
more moral surroundings for the children, more oversight
by the mother, and more chances to become wise and upright
men and women and citizens.
How the home affects the government.--Thus in many ways
the community affects the home and the home thus affected
in- turn influences the life of the community. Where wages
are low and the home wretched, the members of the family
take no pride in it and stay in it as little as possible. Hence
comes the demand for intense excitement: flashy moving
picture shows, dance halls, cheap and sensational theaters,
and saloons. So vital a part of the home have modern amusements
become that social workers who know about the
problem at first hand are insisting that city governments
should make provision for public recreation on a large scale



                    
and regulate closely all private amusement concerns. Here
again the family comes into touch with the government.
Many different kinds of homes.--The home is usually
spoken of as if it were the same thing all over the country
and in all sections of the community. The type of family
which most of us have in mind and which is most commonly
pictured as the "average" home is one where the father
earns a comfortable livelihood for all, where the mother
assumes the responsibilities for the household, and where
children are given an opportunity to go to school and to
prepare themselves for more lucrative and less laborious
positions than those held by their father. In this family
the mother is supposed to concern herself solely with household
matters and perhaps a bit of charity or church work.
The father is the purveyor of the collective wisdom of the
home and establishes all of the serious connections of the
home with the outside world. In the evening time when the
work is done this family gathers around the center table to
read or play simple games.
Whether this is the best type of family we need not stop
to discuss, but it is necessary to point out that there are so
many variations from this type, particularly in our day of
great cities and factories, that it is scarcely to be regarded
as typical any longer. Indeed, it is only when we consider
the various kinds of families which modern industry creates
that we can understand the relation of the home to the
community and the government.
The home of the man who works at night or for long hours.--
In the first place there is the family whose breadwinner is
engaged in an industry that requires long hours or night
work. This matter was recently discussed in New York
during the controversy over a law reducing the number of
hours which bakers could be employed in bake shops. It
appeared that thousands of men were employed for twelve,
fourteen, and even sixteen hours a day; that they had to



rise early in the morning before the world was astir in order
to bake and deliver the daily bread, and that many of them
could not return home until long after the children were all
abed. Some of the bakers declared that they would not
know their own children if they should see them on the streets
because they had never seen them except during sleep and by
artificial light. The same theme was discussed in connection
with the men employed in collecting garbage and ashes for the
city of New York. Certain citizens thought that it was better
and less troublesome to have the waste collected at night, and
the experiment was tried. The workmen complained that
when they had to stay up all night and sleep most of the day
they could see nothing of their families, and that the household
was seriously disturbed because the mother had to give
so much time to keeping the children quiet while the father
slept. 
It may be said that such conditions are very unusual;
but there are tens of thousands of homes where the long
hours and night work of the father prevent the close association
of parent and children and make impossible those gatherings
around the fireside which are supposed to be a necessary
part of typical home life. Just think for a moment of
the number of bakers, miners, policemen, glass and steel
workers in mills whose fires must be kept burning day and
night, railwaymen, train dispatchers, telegraph and telephone
operators, and numerous other groups of working peo-
ple whose conditions of employment and long hours make
such family life impossible - unless the employees can,
by organization, force a proper adjustment of hours and
"shifts," as they are called, or unless the government steps
in and fixes the hours. This is a point where the government
touches the home, and we shall take it up again in the
third part of our book.
Homes where mothers are breadwinners.--Another variation
from the typical home where the father is the breadwinner




for all, is the home from which the mother is absent,
helping to supplement the earnings of the father. Often
the father cannot make enough money to support his family,
let him work ever so hard; and often he is unemployed
through no fault of his own. The mother then must do
laundry work by day and night, take in sewing, or go out
to work in factories by day, or to scrub big office buildings
at night. Where this is the case, the home suffers; the little
children must be left to care largely for themselves without
proper food and attention. Where the mother is away
working long hours, the food is sure to be hastily and poorly
selected and prepared, and temptation to supplement the
meals by liquor is very strong.
We are not speaking now of a few exceptional homes, but
of a very large number of homes. One out of every five of
the industrial wage workers of the United States is a woman,
and the proportion steadily increases. About one-third of
the females over ten years of age in Philadelphia are engaged
in gainful pursuits, and about one-eighth are in industries.
We do not know exactly how many married women with
children are compelled to work out of the home to help earn
the living; but the number is certainly above a million.
This means that at least a million homes are not that typical
American home so fondly pictured by thoughtless orators.
Homes where mothers are the sole breadwinners.--Another
group of families is composed of those in which the mother
is the sole breadwinner. The father is dead, or crippled by
an accident in industry, or has deserted because he was
shiftless or could not bear the strain of the struggle for existence.
Women are seldom paid as much as men, even for
the same kind of work, and the mother who must bear all
the burden can give little time to her children. While she
is away from home, the oldest child usually assumes her
place, and thus we have thousands of " little mothers"
and "little fathers," as they are called, carrying about in



their young arms their smaller brothers and sisters, cooking
and cleaning, and growing old and bent before they become
of age themselves. Often, in such cases, the home life is
lost altogether, and the mother must place her children in
institutions where she can seldom see them, to say nothing
of giving them a mother's care, or she must give them to
well-to-do people to be reared as their own. It is to remedy
these grave evils that at least fourteen states have recently
passed laws giving pensions to poor widows or other women
with children so that they may maintain their homes.
Homes where children are breadwinners.--We have other
groups of families in which the little children, as well as the
father and mother, are wage earners. Many things are
done to-day by the fingers of very young children. They
shuck oysters, string beans, paste labels, help make paper
boxes, or "dip" chocolate drops. Other children, boys and
girls in their early teens, work long hours in factories and
stores. Where the members of the family work in mills and
are separated during the day, they acquire different associates,
and at night seek different amusements. Education
is neglected, little bodies are often stunted by overwork,
and children of tender years are brought into contact with
the vices of the world during the early stages of their growth.
This latter fact has led to some recent laws which prevent
young messenger boys from being sent into vicious resorts
at night. It is because criminals have often started on their
careers of evildoing when they were very young that they are
so hard to reform.
Differences in family life are also frequently due to differences
in educational opportunities. Where children must
leave school at an early age to go to work, it generally happens
that they never have a chance to make up the loss in
training and are thus forced to drop behind more fortunate
children who have no more native ability. Thus literature
and art may be shut out of their lives, and it is small wonder



that after they grow up their homes show the effect of this
deep loss.
Homes which are tenement workshops.--In the poorer
quarters of our great cities we have still another type of
home - the factory home - one in which petty industries
of various kinds are carried on by all the members of the
family, young and old. Here clothing is brought from the
great factories to be finished, lace is made, some kinds of
foodstuffs prepared for market, or willow plumes are tied.
These tenement sweatshops, as they are called, shut out
most of the joy and culture usually associated with the idea
of a home. Home, to the members of such a family, is a
sort of industrial prison. Usually the combined wages of the
family are so low that they must eat, sleep, and work in the
same room. Their inability to secure nourishing food, fresh
air, and rest, develops all sorts of diseases which are disastrous
to the workers and sometimes spread to those who
purchase the products of their labors.
Here again the community suffers, and the government
sometimes interferes by forbidding the labor of children
under a certain age, by prohibiting home work save under
certain conditions, and by regulating tenements.
The homes of negroes.--The negro families, in their desperate
struggle upward from slavery, present still another
type of family problem, and to them the government owes
a special duty. For centuries, as slaves, they were accustomed
to have no property of their own and to receive no
wages--nothing beyond the bare necessities of life. Finding
that hard work brought no reward, they naturally did as
little work as they could when they were out from under
the eye of the overseer. When the slaves were freed they
could not throw off the habits of centuries. They were
ignorant; they had never received any education, save in
rare instances; and they were too bewildered to know what
to do with themselves. Accustomed to live in wretched


                    
cabins on the plantations, the worst slums of the cities
seemed not unpleasant by comparison. It is small wonder
that they so frequently fail to see an opportunity when it
is open to them, and fail to make the best of it when they
try. So many negro mothers, moreover, must work outside
their homes that they cannot, if they would, give their own
children the care and attention that they need, or that they
would like to bestow upon them.
Homes of the "poor whites" in the mountains.--Although
we have spoken of families in industrial cities principally,
it must not be imagined that the families in rural districts
are all alike. By no means. There is all the difference in
the world between the family life of the prosperous farmer
who lives near good roads and railways and schools and of the
struggling farmer out of the way on rocky or muddy or mountain
roads where the stream of travel, the telephone and rural
delivery, never penetrate. There are thousands of families,
particularly in the mountain regions, who live in rude shanties,
from " hand to mouth," without comforts, without education,
and without any of the modern refinements.
New public duties to the home.--The governments of our
states are coming more and more to recognize also how great
is the duty which the more enlightened parts of the community
owe to the backward parts in rural districts. Schools
are being pushed away up into the mountain regions; traveling
libraries are being sent about; roads are being built; and
mail is being carried to those who were, a few years ago,
altogether out of touch with the big world. Public and
private aid is being given to negroes to help them in becoming
more intelligent and industrious citizens. Of this work we
shall say more later.
The home and government.--We have shown that the
home has a vital connection with government, and that it
must, of necessity, be considered in a work on civics. We
have shown how great is the fallacy that all homes are



                    

                    
                    
Courtesy of National Child Labor Committee.
                                        
A LITTLE MOTHER
                                        
                                        

                    


                    
Courtesy of Natioal Child Labor Committee.


A HOME FACTORY
                    


                    

                    
                    


"typically American," whatever that may mean, and also
how great is the fallacy that the home life may be kept
pure and ideal regardless of the kind of government which
is maintained, or regardless of the ways of earning a livelihood
which the community offers to the members of the
family.
The rights and duties of parents and children under the
law.--It is not only in connection with earning a livelihood
and securing an education that the community and the
government come into touch with the home. The government
is interfering more and more with the powers and
rights of husbands, wives, parents, and children in the homes.
Under the common law, which prevailed in the old days in
England and in many respects in the United States at the
beginning of our independence, the very being or legal existence
of the woman was suspended during marriage, or at least
was incorporated and consolidated into that of the husband.
When the woman married, all of her personal property--
clothes, jewels, furniture, and the like, became her husband's
property absolutely, and he secured the right to manage her
lands as he pleased in his own behalf. Married women
could not make contracts, and thus could not engage in business
for themselves. The husband could beat his wife, at
least moderately, without public interference, and his word
was law for the children under age. Divorces for brutality,
drunkenness, crime, desertion, and such causes were not
allowed. The idea of giving women generally an education
at public expense was deemed absurd, and the thought that
women would ever have any share in making the laws
through the acquisition of the right to vote was deemed
preposterous beyond measure. The system of subjection is
the one which prevails in China still.
New rights which the law gives to women.--The old law
concerning the power of the father has been severely modified
in our country, though remnants of the former dominion



still exist in a few states, and the principle of woman
suffrage is not universally accepted. Married women are
now given the right to own and manage their own property;
they may make contracts and deeds; they may engage in
business and the professions. Girls are educated in public
schools even longer than the boys on the whole, and they
are taught history and science and civics and other subjects
that were once supposed to be mysteries which the masculine
mind alone could grasp. In nine states women vote in
all elections just as the men do; Illinois allows them to vote
for local officers and for President; in a majority of states
they take part in local and school elections; and in nearly
all of the states there is a strong demand for complete equal
suffrage. The granting of divorces has been made easier--
too easy, many contend; and in many other ways the family
life has been touched by law, particularly in the direction of
greater equality between men and women.
How the law goes into the home.--The law goes immediately
into the home. In some states it seeks to prevent diseased
persons from marrying and, in others, it permits the taking
of children away from parents who treat them in a cruel
manner or do not provide decently for them. Compulsory
education forces parents to give their children some
training at least. Children must support their aged parents
if they are able. The separation of husband and wife may
follow brutality and drunkenness and non-support. Parents
are usually equal guardians of their children. Thus the
government is attempting to lay the foundation for a reasonable
and refined family life by providing that women shall
be educated as well as the men, and that intelligent coöperation
and the mutual respect of husband and wife shall be the
basis of the family. The family bond which rested on the
mere power of the father is loosened, and the community is
striving to make a more secure bond by placing it on that
right conduct which is the foundation of good citizenship.



                    
                    

                    
Questions

 How does the government touch the home?
 How does the home affect society?
 What changes have taken place in the attitude of society
toward mothers? Toward children?
 What part should the father play in family life? How does
the government affect the part he can play?
 Why is the family income an important matter?
 What makes for culture or refinement in family life?
 Why are there so many kinds of families in the United States?





                    
Additional Reading
                    
WAGE-EARNING CHILDREN: Kelley, Some Ethical Gains through
Legislation, pp. 3-43.
CHILD-LABOR: Burch and Nearing, Elements of Economics, pp.
104-107.
THE INTERSTATE ASPECT OF CHILD LABOR: Kelley, pp. 58-99.
THE RELATION OF LEISURE TO FAMILY LIFE: Kelley, pp. 105-125.
THE RELATION OF UNEMPLOYMENT TO FAMILY LIFE: Burch and
Nearing, pp. 109-111.
THE STANDARD OF LIVING: Burch and Nearing, pp. 31-444.
FAMILY LIFE IN CITIES: Beard, American City Government, pp.
1-30.
FAMILY LIFE IN THE COUNTRY: Gillette, Constructive Rural 
Sociology, pp. 20-31.


                    



                    

                    
                    
CHAPTER IV
                                        
CIVIL LIBERTY
                    
  
                    
 The need for liberty.
 Two divisions of civil liberty.
 Civil liberty: its history and meaning.
                    

                    
 The common man formerly subject to arbitrary government.
 Civil liberty is won and kept only by heroic struggles.
 The American theory about civil liberty and constitutions.


                    

 Civil liberty: principles laid down in our constitutions.
                    

                    
 Certain civil rights which Congress cannot take away.
 Certain civil rights which the federal Constitution requires
the states to uphold.
 Civil liberty as laid down in state constitutions.
                                        

                    

                    
 Civil liberty: personal security.
                    

                    
 New notions of civil liberty require more work of the
government.
                    

                    

                    
 Civil liberty : personal freedom.
                    

                                        
 Freedom of speech, assembly, and press.
                    

                    
 Free speech may be interfered with.
 Police permits and free speech.
 Civil liberty endangered by martial law.
 Civil liberty endangered by intolerance.
 Freedom of thought and speech is a very precious right.
 Free speech does not give the right to slander others.
                                        

                    

 Right to petition.
                    

                                        
 The right of petition was won only after a hard struggle.
                                        

                    

 Religious freedom.
                    

                                        
 Religious persecutions in early days.
 Federal government and religious liberty.
 State constitutions and religious freedom.
 Religious tolerance necessary in politics.
                    

                    

 Right to proper treatment in case of arrest.
                    

                    
 The long contest for a fair trial.
 The writ of habeas corpus.
                                        



 Due process of law in trials of persons accused of crimes.
 Grand and petit juries.
 Granting bail.
 The work of the prosecuting attorney.
 The spirit and purpose of jury trials.
 Inequality before the law.
 How some inequalities may be avoided.
 Indeterminate sentences.
                    

                    

 The rights of children.
                    
                    
                                        
 The trials in children's courts.
                                        

                    

 The new spirit of liberty for all persons.
                                        

                    

                    

                    


The need for liberty.--We have thus far spoken of four
prime human needs in their relation to the community and
government - food, clothing, shelter, and the family life.
Now we have come to another need which is not absolutely
indispensable to human life but is none the less valued by
civilized peoples--the need for liberty and the pursuit of
happiness. Indeed, so great has been the passion for this
human right that men and women have been willing to surrender
everything, even their lives, to secure it. Men and
women may exist without having any share in the government
which rules them or without enjoying the right to go
and come at will or to be free from arbitrary governmental
interference, or without trial by jury and free press and free
speech; but there is no doubt a very vital connection in our
time between these rights and the nature and work of the
government.
Two divisions of liberty: civil and political.--The subject
of liberty is usually divided into two main divisions: civil
and political. The former embraces those rights which are
enjoyed by all citizens -the right to free press and speech,
freedom of religious worship, property, jury trial, and the
like. Political liberty, or the right to vote and hold office,
is confined however to a section of the population. Although
the two are thus separable in theory and in practice, there has



been a close connection between them. Civil liberty in its
widest sense has been secured only in those countries where
political liberty is also enjoyed, and men of all Western
countries would think their civil liberty seriously endangered
were the ballot taken from them.
Civil liberty: its history and meaning.--To understand
what civil rights and civil liberty mean and how essential
they are to every one's comfort and happiness, we must look
back for a moment to the time when they were denied to the
common people like ourselves. In former times, in England,
the peasant--and a great majority of the people were
peasants--was "rightless"; that is, very much in the same
position as the slave was in the United States before the
Civil War. He could call no property his own absolutely;
he could not marry without the consent of the lord on whose
land he lived; he was tried in the lord's court, if he committed
an offense; he could not leave the land, for he was bound
there by the law; and when he died his children had to pay
heavily for securing the right to continue in the old home.
The common man formerly subject to arbitrary government.--
The common man--and even the powerful noble sometimes
--was not secure in his person or property. He had to pay
any amount of taxes which the king pleased to levy. He
might be thrown into prison, tortured, and even killed without
having any reason given or without enjoying the right to a
public trial and the benefit of witnesses in his behalf. You
have seen pictures of the pillories and gloomy dungeons in
which kings and nobles imprisoned the common people at
will. If you will read your histories again, you will learn
how men in olden times had their noses slit and their ears cut
off for refusing to attend the church which the king and ruling
classes maintained; how money was wrung from toiling
peasants and merchants to support idle courtiers in luxury
and vice; how the poor were killed in needless wars without
having any voice at all in saying whether there should be




war; and how men were burned at the stake for teaching
doctrines contrary to those accepted by the rulers.
Civil liberty is won and kept only by heroic struggles.--As
you realize how different a world we live in to-day, although
it is still far from perfect in the development of civil liberty,
you must understand that our rights were only won for us by
the combined efforts of intelligent and fearless men and
women who demanded that better laws be made to guarantee
personal rights and that wiser and juster governments be
established. But it would be a mistake to think that these
rights are forever fixed simply because they are written down
in our federal and state constitutions. They depend, in fact,
for their real enforcement upon the enlightened opinion of
the community, upon the willingness of each to accord to
those who differ from him the privileges which he demands
for himself, upon sentiments of humanity and reasonableness,
upon our firmness in upholding liberty as we are given to see
it. To use a homely phrase, civil liberty cannot flourish
save where there is a fine sense of fair play.
The American theory about civil liberty and constitutions.--
In the United States the theory has developed that the great
principles of civil liberty should be written down in "constitutions";
that is, in special documents describing the govern-
ment and its powers, which cannot be very readily changed.
We have a Constitution for the federal government, and each
state has its own constitution. A constitution is made in a
special manner, by a solemn convention of delegates chosen
by the voters, and may be changed only by a system of amendment
which requires a considerable time to operate (p. 97).
The idea behind this is that certain great rights of life,
liberty, and the pursuit of happiness should not be changed
easily, but only after thorough discussion and careful deliberation.
Principles of civil liberty laid down in our constitutions.--
Having spoken of the general principles of civil liberty, let us




consider the details. If you would find the written words
which describe our civil rights, you must turn to our federal
and state constitutions. The federal Constitution mentions
two classes of civil rights : (a) those which the federal government
itself cannot take away or deny, and (b) those which
the state governments cannot take away or deny. The
state constitution enumerates those rights which the state
government cannot take away or deny. It is absolutely
necessary for us to keep very clearly in mind these two
sources of civil liberty, for more confusion exists on this
subject than on almost any other matter concerning
government.
Certain civil rights which Congress cannot take away.--
Those rights of freedom of press, speech, and religious worship
so often mentioned as being guaranteed to all by the federal
Constitution, are, in fact, only guaranteed to us against
the federal Congress itself (p. 38). The federal Constitution
does not require the state to give these three rights to
its citizens, and the federal government cannot interfere if the
state denies or abridges them. The federal Constitution also
declares that persons tried in federal courts shall have the
right to indictment by a grand jury and to trial by jury, that
the federal officers shall not quarter soldiers in the homes of
the people, that the federal officers shall not enter private
houses to make unreasonable searches and seizures, and that
federal judges shall not impose excessive fines and cruel and
unusual punishments.
Certain civil rights which the federal Constitution requires
the states to uphold.--In addition to guaranteeing us specific
rights against the federal government, the federal Constitution
also lays down certain principles upon which the state
governments shall not trespass (pp. 316, 323). The most
important of these principles are enunciated in the Fourteenth
Amendment, which says that "no state shall make or
enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or 



immunities of citizens of the United States; nor shall any state
deprive any person of life, liberty, or property without due
process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction
the equal protection of the laws." This is of course a very
general statement, and its meaning depends almost entirely
on the way in which the Supreme Court of the United States
interprets it. Of this we shall speak more at length below
(p. 48).
Civil liberty as laid down in state constitutions.--It is,
however, mainly the state constitution and state government
to which the citizen must look for the source of his civil
rights. Some state constitutions go farther along this line
than others; but the rights which are commonly enjoyed in
ordinary daily life fall under three heads: (1) those which
relate to personal security; (2) those which relate to personal
liberty; and (3) those which relate to the personal ownership
and enjoyment of property. These we shall examine one by
one.
Civil liberty: personal security.--By personal security
we mean the protection of life and health and body. We all
claim to-day the right to be protected from burglars, criminals,
the insane, the diseased, from dangerous machinery, speeding
automobiles, from dynamite and other explosives carried
through the streets, and from offensive nuisances, in order
that we may live. We cannot individually protect ourselves
from all these things which imperil life and disturb
our comfort, because it would take all of our time to be on
the watchout for dangers. We therefore demand that the
government see to these things for us, and we appropriate
money for this purpose--for firemen, policemen, hospitals,
public inspectors, and street cleaners. We say that a government
is good and efficient and true to public interest just in
proportion as it succeeds in protecting the lives and comfort
and convenience of its citizens while they are busy with
their daily occupations.



New notions of personal security require more work of the
government.--We are expecting more and more of the government
in guaranteeing personal security. We demand se-
curity for little babies by requiring city boards of health to
guard the purity of the milk which is brought from the
dairies. Playgrounds are being established to keep young
children from getting hurt in the streets and to promote
their health and comfort. People who live in the country are
themselves largely responsible if they do not have fresh air,
pure water and milk, and room to play; but in the cities we
must call in the service of the government to help maintain
the securities so necessary to life. Even in the country, health
officers are needed to see that milk is clean and cattle not
diseased. Elevators in high buildings are inspected, in order
to prevent accidents, dangerous machinery in factories must
be safeguarded, mines must be ventilated so that horrible
explosions may not occur, water supplies must be purified,
and so on throughout a long list of governmental activities
in behalf of personal security. Much of the work that is done
in this regard is crude and inadequate, but as the community
grows in intelligence it demands an ever wiser and ever
more efficient service from the government in the work of
safeguarding life and limb.
Civil liberty: personal liberty.--Personal liberty is
different from personal security. Personal security means
simply the right to live in safety and comfort, as far as possible;
personal liberty means the right to do things. Sometimes
one right seems very much like the other; you may
think that a right like that of trial by jury belongs under
both heads, and there is some reason for this view.
Personal liberty is of two kinds, but in this chapter we shall
only discuss the first kind, which includes the right to say
what one wishes, known as the right of free speech, assembly,
and press; the right to freedom of religious worship; the
right to petition the government to remedy wrongs; and the



right to proper treatment by the police and the courts in case
of arrest. The second kind of personal liberty has to do with
property rights, and those we shall take up in the next chapter,
because they are important enough to deserve separate treatment.
Freedom of speech, assembly, and press.--When you read in
the papers about disturbances in Germany or Russia you
often learn that men are arrested and imprisoned or fined for
saying things that are unpleasant to the rulers. In the United
States, however, we are constantly reading and hearing the
most bitter denunciation of our public officers, and very frequently
they are openly charged with being downright
dishonest. No one thinks of arresting and fining a citizen
because he calls a mayor ugly names or declares that he
should be put out of office because he is a wrongdoer. In
Russia it is necessary for publishers of books and papers to
submit them to official censors before sending them out, and
often books and papers are suppressed altogether because
they are displeasing to the government.
(a) Free speech may be interfered with.--Americans often
boast of the freedom which exists in this country as if it were
absolute; that is, as if there never were any interference with
speech, meetings, and press. This is not altogether true.
Men may be lawfully arrested for making speeches which
incite others to riot and violence. In times of strikes and
disorders it is hard to draw the line between speeches and
publications which are "legitimate" and those which stir
up rioting. It is difficult for the leaders of working men
and women striking for higher wages and better hours
to keep up the spirits of the rank and file without discussing
their grievances and wrongs in a vigorous manner,
and it is for the police and judges to say when they have
"incited to violence." Thus local and state officers may
easily, and often do, suppress free speech and press under
the mere guise of preventing public disorder.




(b) Police permits and free speech.--There is another way
in which free speech and assembly may be interfered with
by the government. In towns and cities many meetings are
held on the street corners and in the parks, and large crowds
may block traffic and hinder people going about their business.
Moreover, where crowds gather on the streets and in halls
it is necessary to have special police protection to prevent
disturbances. It is customary, therefore, to require speakers,
particularly in the streets, to obtain police permits. While
these permits are generally freely given, public officers who
dislike the beliefs of the applicants may very easily refuse
permission on grounds of "public convenience" and in fact
often do so.
(c) Civil liberty endangered by "martial law."--There is
still a third way that free speech may be disturbed. In
times of serious troubles "martial law" is frequently declared;
that is, the ordinary government is set aside and all power
put into the hands of soldiers. This happened in 1912 in
one of the states during a strike of miners when labor leaders
were shut up in prison, on the order of military officers, for
making speeches, and the newspapers published for the
miners were seized and the printing presses broken up.
The United States Senate sent a special commission of its
own members to investigate the charges of violation of civil
liberty by the governor and other officials. It is therefore
incorrect to say that freedom of press, speech, and meeting
is absolute and cannot be interfered with by the government.
(d) Civil liberty endangered by intolerance.--There is yet
a fourth way in which this great right may be infringed
not by the government, but by mobs unwilling to give other
people the right to expound their ideas. Free speech and
press naturally lead to a general criticism of everything--the
government and its officers, the schools, churches, family life,
the rich and powerful. Those who want to write and speak
freely themselves very frequently do not want to give the



                    

                                        
Photo by Underwood and Underwood.   

FREEDOM OF SPEECH AND ASSEMBLY
                                        
                                        




                    
                    


same right to others who hold different opinions. Before the
Civil War those who criticized slavery even in the North were
occasionally beaten and their meetings were often broken up
by their enemies. Sometimes their newspaper presses were
seized and destroyed, and there were a few cases in which
men were killed for advocating that great reform. Instances
of such intolerance are not wanting in our day.
(e) Freedom of thought and speech is a very precious right.
-Notwithstanding the abuses often connected:with free press,
speech, and meeting, this is one of our most valued rights and
we should always be on our guard against denying to others
the right we claim for ourselves, although their opinions are
distasteful and seem very dangerous to us. We can only improve
our morals, our government, and our ways of living
by constant examination and criticism. The very essence
of democracy is government by public opinion, after full and
free discussion, and it is a serious thing for any set of men
and women to decide what shall be said on all occasions by
everybody else. On the other hand, while claiming freedom
of speech, we should at the same time remember that that
freedom carries with it the obligation to show the proper
respect for the rights and opinions of others, and always to
present our own views with a due regard for the feelings
of others.
(f) Free speech does not give the right to slander others.--
It is particularly unfair for any one to attack by speech or
publication the character of another with evil intent, or to
endeavor to injure another by false and evil charges and slanderous
statements. The law provides that any person who
is so slandered may bring suit for damages to his character.
For example, a New York paper not long ago said that a
prominent and respectable woman had been arrested and
imprisoned for stealing when there was not a word of truth
in the statement. The woman brought suit, forced the paper
to retract the false statement, and pay heavy damages besides.



There are also laws against printing fraudulent advertisements
and indecent articles which might corrupt the
morals of the people. Here, too, there is great danger of
tyranny on the part of the government, and public sentiment
should hold the public officers in restraint.
The right to petition.--When in early days the people represented
in the English Parliament consented to be taxed,
they won in return the right to petition the king for a redress
of grievances. This old right has grown into a broad general
right to petition the government on any subject and it
is particularly precious to those who do not have the right
to vote, because it is the only way they can make their
voices heard directly in the government. This is almost the
only way that women, outside of those states where they
enjoy the right to share in choosing representatives to make
laws and in choosing officers, may bring their views on taxation,
lawmaking, and other matters immediately to the
attention of the government. This right is also precious to
minorities who may protest by petition against the action of
majorities and demand a recognition of their claims.
(a) The right of petition was won only after a hard
struggle.--This right of petition seems such a simple and
natural one and is so widely used in the United States that we
are apt to forget that it was a long age before the common
people were allowed to tell the government their grievances.
You may have read how in England men were formerly publicly
whipped at the cart tail or imprisoned for daring to
suggest by petition that everything was not correctly and
wisely done by the king and his officers. In Russia in our
day, a soldier was sentenced to prison for life for daring to
hand the Tsar a petition. It was a great privilege that was
won therefore when the right of petition was secured, al-
though it does not seem as important to those who can vote.
Religious freedom.--When governments were first established
in the American colonies, there was a great variety



of religious beliefs. In New England there were Puritans
and Congregationalists; in New York the Anglicans and
Dutch Protestants predominated; Pennsylvania had its
Quakers, Maryland its Catholics, and the South its Anglicans
and Presbyterians. Added to these elements were some
French Huguenots. It was obviously impossible for any
one sect in the midst of this great diversity to rule all the
others; but in spite of the fact that many of them came to
America to secure freedom of religious worship, there was
no little religious persecution at first.
(a) Religious persecutions in early days.--Quakers were
driven out of Massachusetts; Jews were discriminated
against by law in New York; the established Church of England
ruled with a high hand in Virginia; and in South Carolina
the Catholics were treated harshly. Many of these religious
discriminations remained long after the establishment of
Independence, and indeed some relics of the older days are
still to be found in the laws of several states.
(b) The federal government and religious liberty.--When
it came, however, to the establishment of the Constitution
of the United States it was clearly impossible to place one sect
above another, even if any one had thought of it; and each
sect, anxious for its own rights, was willing to concede similar
rights to others. Hence it came about that Congress was
forbidden by the first amendment to the Constitution to make
any law respecting the establishment of religion or the free
exercise thereof (p. 321). The most serious religious problem
which the federal government has had to solve was that
presented by the Mormons of Utah. They claimed that
the right of a man to have more than one wife was a part of
their religious liberty, for it had the sanction of the Old Testament.
Other citizens claimed that this custom was a menace
to morals, and Congress by law prohibited polygamy. The
government thus interfered with what was claimed to be a
phase of religious freedom, but it did so on the ground that




there was a difference between religion and marriage customs
claiming religious sanction.
(c) State constitutions and religious freedom.--Our state
constitutions now follow the example of the federal Constitution
and guarantee religious freedom to the citizens of the
respective states. Generally speaking, therefore, we now
have religious freedom in the United States; that is, each
person may belong to the church of his choice or to no church
at all; he may vote and hold office regardless of his religious
beliefs, although in a few states those who do not believe in
God are excluded from officeholding; and he is not compelled
to pay taxes to support any church.
(d) Religious tolerance necessary in politics.--Notwithstanding
this extensive religious toleration and freedom,
religious feeling is strong in the United States, and it enters
into politics more or less. Often the Protestants are stirred
up because the Catholics seem to enjoy too much political
influence in elections, and Catholics sometimes claim that
they are discriminated against in appointments to public
offices. Appeals are frequently made in elections for the
voters to support this or. that candidate on account of his
church affiliations. All the sects join in deploring the
growth of free thought or infidelity, and in some cities there is
more or less antagonism to the public schools on the ground
that no religious creeds are taught there. The various sects
are unable to agree on the fundamentals of Christianity which
should be taught in the schools, and the Jews, who are so
numerous in the great cities, do not want any religious ceremonies
savoring of Christianity in the schools, so that there is
little possibility of any sect securing entire control of them.
Moreover, the spirit of tolerance and fair play is stronger than
ever before, and is nourished by all right-minded persons.
The right to proper treatment in case of arrest.--In every
community there are persons who infringe on the rights of
others as defined by law, and the public must protect itself



against the dishonest and the criminals. Nevertheless, those
who commit crimes have their rights also, and it is very important
that they should be carefully safeguarded; for
arbitrary action on the part of policemen and courts may
involve any person too seriously for a trivial offense. The
power to punish others is a dangerous power, and fair trials
and publicity should be provided, and cruel and unjust punishment
prevented.
(a) The long contest for a fair trial.--The struggle for a
fair trial dates from early days in England, before our country
was settled, when the king's officers seized at pleasure the
persons against whom they had a grudge, maltreated them
if they chose, and hanged or imprisoned them without public
trial. It was a common custom to seize persons against
whom the king had a grievance and hold them in prison indefinitely.
This evil practice led finally to the establishment
of the right to the writ of habeas corpus, a right which contributed
so much to human liberty that it was put into our
federal Constitution (p. 316) and our state constitutions, and
remains one of the most valued rights to-day. The reason
for the high esteem in which it is held is that it helps to prevent
malicious imprisonment without trial and without informing
the prisoner of the exact charges against him.
(b) The writ of habeas corpus.--The term habeas corpus
comes from the Latin words used in the original writ as
issued by the courts to the officer holding a prisoner. It
means "you shall have the body," and is a part of the order
directing the sheriff or jailer to bring the prisoner before
the court for a preliminary examination. This writ must
be issued on request of the prisoner or his attorney, except
in times of rebellion and disorder when military rule is in
force. When a person secures the writ of habeas corpus he
is brought before a judge, and if on inquiry into the facts of
the arrest the judge thinks the prisoner unlawfully held, he
sets him free. If, however, the judge finds that there is




sufficient reason for thinking the prisoner guilty of the charge,
he sends him back to jail, or lets him out on bail if satisfactory
security can be found as a guarantee that he will appear at
trial when the day comes. This examination enables every
prisoner to know at once why he is held and prevents officers
from keeping people in prison without warrant.
(c) Due process of law in trials of persons accused of
crimes.-- The next step in the proper treatment of an
arrested person is to secure " due process of law," for the
Constitution of the United States guarantees that no person
shall be deprived of his life or liberty without it (below,
p. 323). Although "due process of law" does not mean
exactly the same in every state, it always includes certain
general practices. It means (1) that a person accused of a
serious offense must first be indicted by a grand jury and then
tried by a petit jury; (2) that an acquitted person shall not be
tried again for the same offense; (3) that no person shall
be compelled to testify against himself; (4) that the accused
must be brought face to face with the witnesses against him,
must have the power to compel witnesses in his behalf to
come into court to testify, and shall enjoy the right to have
an attorney in his interest; (5) and that excessive bail shall
not be asked, nor excessive fines imposed, nor cruel and
unusual punishment inflicted.
(d) The grand and petit juries.--All this is probably easy
to understand except the terms "grand jury," "petit jury,"
and " bail." A grand (or big) jury is sometimes composed
of twenty-four persons (although often of fewer), while the
petit (pronounced " petty," from the French word meaning
"little ") jury  usually has only twelve members. The
grand jury examines the charges against a prisoner, and if a
majority of the members believe that there is enough evidence
to warrant a trial of the accused, a "bill of indictment" is
found against him; and the case is then tried before a judge
and little jury. The little jury hears evidence for, as well




as against, the accused, and if all the members think him
guilty of the crime charged they return a verdict of guilty.
In some states, it is not necessary to have a unanimous
verdict in order to convict for a small offense.
(e) Granting bail.--Bail means the money or property put
up as a guarantee that the prisoner will not run away if he
is let out of jail after his arrest and allowed to remain out
until he is tried and found guilty by the regular court.1
While this is of great advantage to those who are well-to-do
or have friends with property, the poor and friendless cannot
enjoy this right, and often innocent persons are held in prison
a long period awaiting trial, to their great loss in time and
wages. In some places, judges are adopting the practice
of letting arrested persons out on parole--on their honor--
in order to spare them the sorrow and waste of time of lying
in jail until trial.
(f) The work of the prosecuting attorney.--We have
said that for serious offenses the accused must be indicted
by a grand jury. In minor offenses, of course, this is not
necessary, for the county attorney or prosecutor may bring
the charges in such cases, and in cities the policeman making
the arrest brings the charges. In a few states, California for
example, the grand jury may be done away with even in
murder cases, and the charges may thus be brought by the
prosecutor without the delays incident to tedious hearings
before the grand jury. In large cities also where there are
so many crimes, the grand jury tends to become a mere formal
body which accepts the declarations of the prosecutor
as to the guilt of the accused without any careful examination,
and does not press any cases which the prosecutor has
not already suggested and prepared.
(g) The spirit and purpose of jury trials.--This doing
away with the grand jury is not without danger. The aim
of both juries is to draw into the trial of accused persons

1Bail is not allowed in cases of murder.




citizens who are not officers of the government, who are
neighbors of the accused, and who are not sticklers for the
petty rules of the law, in order that common sense and common
humanity may be brought into the indictment and trial
of criminals. But even the jury is not without its drawbacks.
If the jury is composed of persons who are in sympathy
with the deeds of the accused, as is sometimes the case
in lawless regions, it is difficult to secure conviction when
the evidence is clear. If the jury is composed of a different
class of persons who do not know about the difficulties and
obstacles in the way of the accused it may be too harsh in
its judgment. Moreover, except in those states which have
woman suffrage, the actions of women and children are
judged entirely by men. This is, of course, an ancient custom,
but in our time many women are objecting to this one-
sided arrangement, and they claim that women should have
at least some voice in the courts where they are tried. In
the West, therefore, women have been accepting jury duty
cheerfully and they have been called upon in numerous
instances to perform it.
(h) Inequality before the law.--As time goes on we
develop new notions of humanity and justice in trials and in
the treatment of prisoners, and discover new objections to
old customs. For example, we speak with pride of "equality
before the law," which means that the same penalty shall be
imposed for the same offense no matter by whom committed,
whether rich or poor, workman or capitalist, saloon keeper
or clergyman. But it does not require much intelligence
to discover that this principle is not realized in practice.
The poor man particularly is always at a disadvantage, for
he cannot employ skilled lawyers, such as the rich can, to
outwit and baffle the judge and jury. The poor man cannot
give bail when he is arrested and must remain in prison,
whether guilty or innocent, until trial. Again, if a fine is
imposed for an offense, the rich man can pay it without any


                    
trouble, while the poor man often goes to jail for a long time.
Though we do not have imprisonment for debt in theory,
we do in fact, because the poor man who cannot pay his
fine to the government in money must pay it by lying in
prison. The rich man may appeal to the higher courts if
convicted in the lower court and drag on the case for years,
wearing out the judges and prosecutors, until they may be
glad to dismiss the matter altogether.
(i) How some inequalities may be avoided.--In order
that the poor may not be wholly without assistance, courts
appoint attorneys to defend them when they are arrested,
but the payment for this service is usually small and the
best lawyers generally cannot be secured. The problem of
the poor man and bail can be partially solved by speeding
up the courts so that arrested persons need not stay in jail
a long time before trial and by extending the parole system
whereby persons accused of minor offenses may be let out
on their honor or on the pledge of a friend until trial. The
problem of fines and the poor is difficult, but there are determined
efforts to do away with the cruel system of putting
poor men in jail for months for petty offenses, and thus depriving
them and their families of their wages and support meantime.
An Indianapolis judge recently adopted the practice
of letting persons who are fined in his court pay the fine in
small installments, providing they pledge their honor. He
finds by experience that nearly every one who has been given
this privilege keeps his pledge sacredly and that the city is
saved a great deal of money in the cost of keeping idle prisoners
in jail. Another inequality arises from the practice of
having only men as judges over all cases which involve
women prisoners. In some cities this is being rectified by
the appointment of women as police judges.
(j) Indeterminate sentences.--The rights of the prisoner
convicted of an offense are now receiving more attention
than ever. A few states have abolished the death sentence


                    
for murder. Some states have adopted what is known as
the indeterminate sentence; that is, the convicted man is
not sent to prison for a definite term of years, but for a period
ranging between certain years, and he is let out early if his
conduct is good, and may remain out as long as he behaves
himself. Other states are attempting to give the prisoners
useful work to do, and some are paying the men wages for
the benefit of their families.
The rights of children.--You may not know that children
are arrested in large numbers, especially in the big cities,
but this is unfortunately true. Not many years ago little
children were treated like adults in the courts, thrown into
jail with old and hardened criminals only to learn more
crimes, and sentenced to severe punishments, even death.
There is now developing a new theory about the rights of
children before the law. Separate courts, known as juvenile
courts, for the trial of children's cases, are springing up all
over the country, and the practice of throwing children into
the regular prisons is being abandoned.
(a) Trials in children's courts.--The judge in the juvenile
court is expected to have very special qualifications. There
is no jury trial in this court, for it is thought better to intrust
the cases of children to an intelligent and sympathetic judge
than to juries made up of persons selected by chance. Thus
the child is given a better opportunity to state his case and
to have a fair hearing. More and more, the trial resolves
itself into these questions: "What made this boy or girl go
wrong? What kind of home does the child have? Who
will be responsible for his future good conduct?" Prison
sentences are rarely imposed. Children are let out on probation
under the superintendence of probation officers who
look after them, or of "big brothers" or "big sisters," as
they are called.
The new spirit of liberty for all persons.--If we study
carefully the growth of the idea of human rights, we find that




we are trying to write into the law an ever greater respect
and regard for the individual person. We are seeking to give
him a better chance to develop his own life in the way he sees
fit so long as he does not injure his neighbors; and when he
goes wrong we try not to think of revenge as much as of
repairing the wrong and restoring the wrongdoer to a proper
life. It is the deep sense of fair play, and of regard for the
rights of others, which makes orderly and progressive government
possible. This we should cherish even as we prize our
own rights, for he who attacks the personal rights of others,
rather than enlarges them, paves the way for the destruction
of his own.
                    
                    

                    
Questions
                    
 What are the recognized forms of civil liberty?
 What are some of the limits to free speech, if there be such?
 Why is it desirable to have a free press?
 What is meant by the terms grand jury, petit jury, bail,
due process of law, habeas corpus, probation, parole, libel?
 What is the purpose of a juvenile court?
 What is the relation between food, clothing, shelter, family
needs, and civil liberty?
 When can a jury be said to be impartial?
 Why is equality of rich and poor before the law difficult?




                    
Additional Reading
                    
THE RIGHTS AND IMMUNITIES OF CITIZENSHIP: Kaye, Readings in
Civil Government, pp. 94-110.
JURY TRIALS: Beard, American Government and Politics, pp. 87,
448, 549, 564, 572.
FREEDOM OF SPEECH : Bryce, The American Commonwealth, Vol. II,
p. 353.
RELIGION IN THE UNITED STATES: Bryce, Vol. II, pp. 763-794.
                    

                    
                    


                    
                   
                   
                    
CHAPTER V

PROPERTY RIGHTS
                                     

                    
 Safeguarding property rights by constitutions.
 Four rules designed to secure the rights of property owners.
 Additional ways in which the federal Constitution protects
property.
 Indirect way of taking private property by the government.
 The property owner's right to protection.
 How property rights change from age to age.
 Property rights in slaves.
 Married women's property rights.
 Changes in notions about public property.
 What shall be public property?
 Our state and national governments are now large property
owners.
 The federal government as a business manager.
 How the use of private property is limited.
 The rights of property in labor.
 Interference with freedom to labor as one pleases.
 How the government is involved in labor unions.
 Government regulation of the rights of labor.
 General tendencies in property rights.
                    

                                     

                                     
                                     
Safeguarding property rights by constitutions.--Although
we speak of property rights as distinct from human rights,
they are not so in fact. A property right is a human right
to use and enjoy material things necessary to life--houses,
clothes, food, land, wages, and so on. Property rights also
have to do with ways of securing food, clothing, and shelter.
They underlie all other rights, for without property of some
kind one cannot live at all. Property rights are, therefore,
sacred rights in all times and places. It is plain that if rights



in property were not defined, respected, and enforced, that
if no one could call anything his own, and every one were
permitted to grab all he could and keep everything he could
get his hands on, life would be a perpetual scramble and
no person would be safe. But the kinds of property rights
and the ways in which property may be used, vary greatly
from age to age.
Four rules designed to secure the rights of property owners.
--To safeguard property rights certain principles are laid
down in our state and federal constitutions. These are in
general as follows: (1) private property may not be taken
from one person by the government and given to another;
(2) private property cannot be taken directly by the government
without paying the owner a reasonable price; (3) when
private property is taken from a person, due process of law
must be followed; that is, the owner shall have a right to
protest or state his views on the matter and the value shall
be fairly appraised; (4) the use of lawful property cannot
be restricted in such a way as to destroy or seriously reduce its
value to the owner.
Additional ways in which the federal Constitution protects
property.--The federal Constitution contains these provisions
about property, and some others in addition. It says
that no state shall impair the obligation of contract. This
is a very technical matter which is hard to understand; but
it is important, particularly in one aspect. It prevents
a state government from destroying a charter or a franchise
granted to a company or corporation, unless the right to repeal
or abridge has been specially reserved by the state. Many
charters and rights granted in early days by the states are
perpetual because no reservation of the right to repeal was
made. The federal Constitution also says that no state
shall emit bills of credit; that is, make paper money. This
clause grew out of the early practice of the states in issuing
such large quantities of paper money that no person could



ever be sure what the value of a dollar was. For example,
during the Revolution, a pound of brown sugar in Virginia
was worth eleven dollars and a yard of linen seventy-five
dollars. The utmost confusion reigned until this clause
was put into effect with the adoption of our Constitution
so that a uniform monetary system might be established.
Indirect way of taking private property by the government.
--There is, however, an indirect way in which the state or
national government may take private property without
paying for it; that is, by taxation - income and inheritance
taxes, taxes on land, customs duties, and the like that are
used for the support of the government and for the promotion
of public welfare. Indeed, there are many people who
hold that there should be heavy inheritance and income
taxes for the purpose of helping to equalize the rich and poor.
This means that a great deal should be taken from the rich
and used for the general welfare - for schools, parks, roads,
hospitals, and other public institutions. In fact, we now
have a federal income tax, and many states have inheritance
and income taxes, but they are designed to raise revenues
rather than to equalize wealth.
The property owner's right to protection.--In addition to
the constitutional safeguards against government interference
with property rights, there are certain rights of protection
which the possessors of property have. They enjoy
protection from thieves and burglars by the agents of the
government,--the police. They enjoy fire protection in
the cities, for the fire departments do not charge the citizen
directly for putting out a fire in his house or place of business.
They enjoy protection against other persons who would
maintain nuisances near by, such as slaughter houses. They
enjoy the right to go into the courts and sue for the recovery
of property unlawfully taken from them or to secure property
which is unlawfully withheld from them.
These are the most important rights of property in the



strict sense; but this does not mean that an owner of property
may do exactly as he pleases with his own possessions
or that great changes are not being made in the rights of
property.
How property rights change from age to age.--Indeed,
the ways in which people may acquire property and the ways
in which they may use what they have acquired have changed
wonderfully during the course of human events, just as have
the personal rights which we described above. In England,
for example, a long time ago, all the land was owned by the
king, and every inch of it was held from him. The great
lords, to whom he intrusted the land, sublet it to small lords,
and they in turn had under them serfs who were, as we have
seen, rightless. The poor peasant, save in rare cases, could
not get possession of a piece of land to call his own, and even
to-day England is owned principally by great landlords,
whose ancestors shook off the kings' ownership of the land
and acquired an absolute right to it. In time, however,
it became possible for any person with money to buy a piece
of land and call it his own.
Property rights in slaves.--In our own country there have
been many changes in notions about property rights. For
example, colored people were once considered as private
property, and slave owners had a constitutional right to use
this human property in their own way--to buy and sell
men and women and children and take from them the results
of their labors. It took the Civil War to destroy this notion
about property rights, and now we have written in the Constitution
that neither slavery nor involuntary servitude shall
exist in the United States.
Married women's property rights.--As we have seen, also,
married women formerly had no property rights, but were
subject in all such matters to their husbands (p. 31). If
the woman worked for wages, her husband could go to her
employer and collect her earnings and spend them as he



pleased, just as the slave owner could take the product
from his black servants. But this right of the married
man over his wife's property has been destroyed in nearly
every state, and women are put on an equality with their
husbands in such matters.
Changes in notions about public property.--Just as we
have said that no human being shall be the property of another,
so we are coming to believe that many kinds of property
shall not belong to any private person or corporation.
The high roads, for example, were once nearly all privately
owned, and every few miles a driver would have to stop and
pay toll to the owner of the particular section of the road
over which he was driving. At length, the majority of the
people who did not own stock in roads found this a great
burden and a nuisance, and the government bought the highways
and threw them open to the public, placing the cost
of maintenance on the taxpayer. Similarly in towns, the
inhabitants once supplied themselves with water from their
own wells, until in many cases the government stepped in
and made the water supply a public institution, owned by
the city or by a private corporation under city supervision.
What shall be public property? --This leads us to one of
the greatest of all modern questions in civics: "What kinds
of property that are now privately owned shall be turned
into public property?" Many cities have decided that they
should themselves own and operate their gas, electric light,
and water works; a few cities have public street railways
which they themselves own; and there is a large body of
citizens who believe that all such municipal services should
belong to the government or, rather, the people of the city,
and that they should be run at cost or for profits to be turned
into the public treasury. There are others, including the
Postmaster-General of the United States, who hold that the
railways should belong to the government as they do in
Germany, and the socialists insist that all land and factories


                                     
and instruments of production on a large scale should become
public property so that no private person could derive
revenues simply from "owning" property.
Our state and national governments are now large property
owners.--A very practical question with regard to public
ownership is raised in connection with the large quantities
of lands, forests, waterfalls, and mineral resources now held
by the state and federal governments. For a long time it
was the policy of these governments to give this property
to private persons or sell it to them at a low price; but now
there is an increasing number of citizens who oppose selling
such public property. They believe that the governments
should continue to hold all they now own and add to it by
purchase. In order that this property may be put to good
uses, they would have the governments manage it them-
selves, or rent it out for terms of years to private persons
and companies at profitable rates.
The federal government as a business manager.--Indeed,
the federal government is now a property manager on a
large scale. It holds more than 100,000 square miles of land
- an area larger than that of Wisconsin and Illinois put
together. The forest land is watched over by rangers appointed
by the government. Timber is sold to private
persons at a fixed price, and new trees are being planted to
keep up the supply. The government also allows lumbermen,
cattle rangers, and other private persons to use public
lands under proper regulation and for reasonable pay. The
government also owns immense areas of arid land, and these
it is making ready for cultivation by great public irrigation
plants. Provisions are made for leasing waterfalls to private
companies, and it appears that a new policy with
regard to public property will be adopted in the treatment
of the resources of Alaska.
How the use of private property is limited.--While our
notions about what ought to be public and what private



property change from time to time, our ideas about the way
in which private persons may use their own property are
changing even more rapidly. We are prescribing by law
how houses shall be built and managed in cities, how factories
shall be ventilated, how dairies shall be conducted in the
country in order to guarantee pure milk, how railways shall
be operated, and what rates they shall charge for their
services. It is particularly in regard to what are called
"public service corporations" that the idea of regulation
of property has advanced most rapidly. Some states have
gone so far as to make a public valuation of the railways
within their borders and, having put a value on the property,
they decide what the owners may charge for freight and
passengers. Even the federal government is now making
such a valuation for all the railways engaged in interstate
traffic.
The rights of property in labor.--One of the most important
aspects of property is the right of working men and
women to dispose of their labor power, which is usually the
only property they possess that is of much consequence.
The courts generally hold that the workingman's ability to
labor is his peculiar property, to be disposed of as he sees
fit. This is known as "freedom of contract"--the right
to work for whom one pleases, as many hours a day as one
pleases, and for what wages one is willing to accept. For a
long time it was maintained that no one, not even the government,
had the power to interfere with this right of working
men and women to sell their labor as they pleased.
Interference with freedom to labor as one pleases.--Within
recent years, however, there has been a tendency to restrict
this right in two ways, both of which involve the government.
Thousands of working people are saying that if a
workingman sells his labor at too low a price, he injures his
family and the families of other people because he takes a
job at a wage lower than any person can bring up a family


                    
                    
                                        
Photo by Underwood and Underwood.
                                        
AN EVENT IN THE LAWRENCE STRIKE OF 1912
                                        
                    
                    


                    
                    


decently on. They say that the single, unaided laborer is
not in a fair position to bargain with well-to-do employers,
because he must have work or starve, while the latter can
wait indefinitely without suffering want. On these principles,
trade unions are organized for the purpose of shortening
the hours of work and increasing wages; that is, for
protecting and increasing property rights in labor.
How the government is involved in labor unions.--But it
may be said that labor organization is a private matter
with which the government cannot interfere. On second
thought, however, you will discover a connection between
the government and trade unions. In the first place, the
right to form trade unions at all is a legal right which has
been won by long struggles against laws which branded such
societies as conspiracies, and punished those connected with
them. In the next place, the right to "picket"--that is,
to set guards about factories where strikes are conducted
to warn those who come to take the jobs of the strikers--
is a right which strikers enjoy only with the consent of the
state government. In the third place, the courts may, by
an order known as an "injunction," forbid strikers to engage
in this or that practice and may throw those who disobey
into jail. This contest over the sale of labor is, in fact, a
contest over the very essence of property, that is, income,
and the attitude of the government toward the matter is
of the utmost importance.
Government regulation of the rights of labor.--In addition
to laws about trade unions and strikes, we have many other
laws affecting the right of the laborer to work as long as and
for what wages he pleases. Our state governments are limiting
the hours of men in many trades, particularly those
which are dangerous, such as mining and railroading.
They are quite generally fixing the hours of work for women
and children employed in industries. Contractors doing
work for the government must pay their workingmen certain



standard wages, and recently we have seen the enactment
of laws in some states providing for fixing the lowest
wages which may be paid to women by employers. This is
called "the minimum wage." Other laws about labor
require employers to pay compensation to those injured while
at work, and to provide safety appliances in their places
of business, even if plenty of workmen could be found willing
to work without such appliances. Thus we see the right
to use one's property as one sees fit is restricted, and the
right to sell one's labor as one pleases is also limited in the
name of common welfare.
General tendencies in property rights.--It is impossible
to mention here all of the changes which have been going on
in property rights; but it may be said that the tendency
now is toward increasing the amount of property which is
publicly owned, toward restricting the use of private property
for the convenience of the public and the welfare of the
working people, and toward the prevention of all kinds of
money-making schemes by which clever persons rob the
industrious. An example of the last tendency is to be found
in laws forbidding the adulteration of food and the sale of
fraudulent mining and industrial stocks to innocent purchasers.
It is thus clear that every citizen should give
attention to the subject of property and the rights pertaining
to it, for they involve the most important matters coming
up for consideration by the government to-day.
                                     
                                     
                                     

                    
                    Questions
                    
1. How have property rights changed from time to time?
2. Which one of those changes do you consider most im-
portant ?
3. What relation does the trades union bear to property rights ?
4. What property does the federal government own ?
5. How does it use it?
6. What changes are suggested with regard to federal property ?



                                     
7. What further changes are suggested with regard to private
property?
8. How do property rights compare in importance with civil
rights?
9. What is the object to-day of inheritance, income, and similar
taxes?
10. What is the struggle between capital and labor?
11. What do the socialists say about property rights?

                                     

                    
Additional Reading
                    
THE DISTRIBUTION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY: Burch and Nearing,
Elements of Economics, pp. 255-264.
FORMS OF TAXATION: Burch and Nearing, pp. 248-254; Beard,
Readings, pp. 590-605.
CAPITAL AND LABOR: Burch and Nearing, pp. 296-347.
THE SINGLE TAX: Burch and Nearing, pp. 340-341.
SOCIALISM: Burch and Nearing, pp. 341-345.

                                     




                    

                                     
                                     
CHAPTER VI

POLITICAL LIBERTY
                    

                    
 Political and civil liberty closely connected.
 The long struggle for political liberty.
                    

                                        
 The right to vote very limited at first.
 Classes excluded from the right to vote in 1776.
 Early arguments against giving propertyless men the vote.
 Early arguments in favor of votes for propertyless men.
 Confused ideas about democracy.
 Our ideas about democracy change.
 The contest over votes for white men.
 Votes for colored men.
 Votes for women.
                                        

                    

 Present restrictions on the right to vote.
                    

                    
 Citizenship.
                    
                    
                                        
 How aliens are naturalized.
 The alien should become a citizen before voting.
 Voters of foreign birth likely to be clannish.
 What should be done with the foreign vote.
                                        

                    

                    
 The age limit for voters.
 Male sex qualification.
 Residence qualification.
 Taxpaying qualification.
 Educational test.
 How negroes are excluded from voting in the South.
                    

                                        
 The federal Constitution and Southern suffrage restrictions.
                                        

                    

 Miscellaneous restrictions on voting.
                                        

                    






Political and civil liberty closely connected.--Political
liberty includes the right to vote in elections at which those
who make and enforce the laws are chosen and also the right




to hold office. While, as we have seen, the citizen may enjoy
full civil liberty (rights of person and property) without
at the same time having political liberty, it is a fact that
men have commonly believed the two liberties to be inseparable.
The principle that without political liberty there
can be no true civil liberty was expressed in the American
doctrine that there should be no taxation without representation;
that is, no payment of money in taxes without a
voice in deciding on the amount and kinds of taxes. It was
written also in the Declaration of Independence in the
immortal words that " governments derive their just powers
from the consent of the governed."
The long struggle for political liberty.--This theory of
political liberty, like other notions about human rights, was
of slow growth and has a long history. There was a time
in England when the king ruled absolutely; his word was
law; and all the high officers of government were his appointees.
In time, the great nobles, the landlords, and the
rich merchants obtained the right to choose representatives
to Parliament which after a long fight took away from the
king his power to make laws, lay taxes, and rule absolutely.
When the English colonies were founded in America, the
rich classes in the mother country were represented in the
Parliament, while the peasants, working people, and poor
generally were deprived of the right to vote altogether. In
short, only those (with a few exceptions) who held a certain
amount of property enjoyed the right to vote and hold
office, and the notion that the poor man should have the same
privilege was regarded with horror by property owners.
The right to vote very limited at first.--Such aristocratic
notions were widely held in the American colonies, and there,
too, the suffrage was confined to men who owned a definite
amount of property. In fact, the lofty principles laid down
in the Declaration of Independence were not written because
all Americans had come to the conclusion that every person




should have a voice in the government. On the contrary, a
very large proportion of the white men were still deprived
of the right to vote under the new Republic as before under
the king of Great Britain. The Revolutionary War was
fought to secure freedom from interference on the part of
the British government, not to establish the right of all men
to vote or to guarantee that no one should be governed
without his consent. The Declaration of Independence,
therefore, expressed a principle that was not completely
carried out in practice.
Classes excluded from the right to vote in 1776.--When the
new government was set up after the break with England,
there were several classes of the population that did not
have the right to vote. Of course, the slaves did not have
the ballot, and it was common to exclude free colored persons
in the North. Black men in general did not get their political
privileges until after the War, although a few states had
enfranchised some of them before. Slaves were not the only
persons denied the right to vote, however. In nearly every
state the ballot was restricted to the property owners or
taxpayers, and several devices were employed to give landed
property owners a special control over government. Office-
holders were frequently required to have large amounts of
property and sometimes to hold certain religious opinions
as well. Moreover, the idea that women should have any
voice in the government built "on the consent of the governed"
never occurred to the founders of the Republic.
Early arguments against giving propertyless men the vote.
--In the long agitation over the right of the common man
to vote (even if he had no property) which followed the
Declaration of Independence, the whole question of the suffrage
was thoroughly threshed out. Many of the greatest
men in our history, like Webster, Madison, Hamilton, and
Jefferson were afraid of giving power to the poor--particularly
of the great cities. In every state where the suffrage


                    
was demanded by the disfranchised, arguments such
as were put forward against it in the New York constitutional
convention of 1821 were heard: "There is no real
demand for it--only a few noisy agitators are stirring the
matter up; we are happy and prosperous now, why run
any risks by doubling the number of voters; the extreme
democratic principle has been regarded with terror by the
wise men of every age, because in every European republic,
ancient and modern, in which it has been tried, it has terminated
disastrously and has been productive of corruption,
injustice, violence, and tyranny; the poor have no interest
in the government because they have no property at stake
and Providence has decreed that we shall have the poor with
us forever; workingmen, if enfranchised, would neglect their
work and engage in politics for which they are not fitted;
the extension of the right to vote to all white men on
equal terms will end in the ruin of the government and universal
calamity."
Early arguments in favor of votes for propertyless men.--
Against these dire prophecies, the advocates of universal
manhood suffrage brought forward arguments based on the
"natural" rights of mankind. They admitted that allowing
all men an equal voice was in many ways experimental,
but they claimed that it was an experiment based upon the
professed principles of the Declaration of Independence:
"governments derive their just powers from the consent of
the governed." They also declared that the poor man with
only his labor to sell needed the vote to protect himself
against laws made in behalf of property and to secure laws
favorable to his own welfare; they denied that either intelligence
or morality was possessed only by the well-to-do;
they scorned the idea that the propertyless were represented
in the government, even though they had no voice in it;
and they concluded by adding that the men who were voteless
were determined to have it, and that it would be the



better part of wisdom to give it to them without engendering
a bitter struggle.
Confused ideas about democracy.--It was a republic, not
a democracy, which the men who established our form of
government had particularly in mind, and it was not until
more than half a century after the Declaration of Independence
that white men were given political liberty. This misunderstanding
about democracy is partly due to a confusion
of terms. We sometimes speak as if a representative government,
a republic, and a democracy were all the same; but
this is not correct. A republic may be both representative
and democratic, but it is not necessarily so. A republic
simply means a country without a king or single absolute
ruler, but such a country may be ruled by a very small class
while the masses of the people have no share at all in the
government. Likewise a representative government need
not necessarily be democratic or republican. A representative
government means a government by persons chosen by
voters, but under such a government the number of voters
may be so restricted as to dei:y the majority of the adult
men--to say nothing of the women--all share in the government.
It was a representative republic that was established
in the United States after the Declaration of Independence.
Our ideas about democracy change.--A democracy, on
the other hand, means a government by "all of the
people," but the term "the people" does not mean the same
to all persons or at all times. During the nineteenth century,
it was held by most men that a democracy was a nation in
which all of the adult males had the right to vote. But in
the states where the women now vote and in other states where
they are demanding the ballot, there is a widespread conviction
that a government which excludes half of the population--the
women--from the ballot is not a democracy at all. Thus
it is apparent that the men who wrote the Declaration of
Independence and framed our system of government in the



eighteenth century did not say the last word about democracy,
but left many additions to their fine theories about the
rights of man to be made by later generations.
The contest over votes for white men.--The story of
the way the common man without property secured the
ballot in this country has never been fully written. In
New York, the last of the property qualifications for white
men were abolished in 1826 after a good deal of agitation
and the presentation of a monster petition containing 75,000
names. In Rhode Island there was a sort of civil war in
1842 known as Dorr's Rebellion which frightened the state
government into giving votes to those who did not have
the property required by the old law. In England, about
the same time, there was a great deal of rioting and disorder
on the part of the men who wanted the right to vote--a
right which was not secured for most of them until 1867 in
that country.
Votes for colored men.--The advocates of white manhood
suffrage prevailed in the long and bitter contest, and, by the
eve of the Civil War, property qualifications on the right to
vote were almost all swept away. The colored man stood
on a different footing in the North as well as in the South.
In a large number of the Northern states negroes were not
allowed to vote at all, or unless they possessed a certain
amount of property. After the war the problem of the
newly emancipated slaves of the South was raised. The
Thirteenth Amendment, which Lincoln did so much to secure,
merely abolished slavery. Many Republicans held that on
the theory of the rights of man the negroes were entitled
to vote; other Republicans thought that the former slaves
would vote the Republican ticket if enfranchised; and the
oppressive laws passed in many Southern states which almost
established slavery under another name led to the adoption
of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution which
provides that when any state denies any of its male citizens



                    

                                        
From an old print.
                                        
DORR CALLING UPON HIS FOLLOWERS TO TAKE UP ARMS FOR THE RIGHT TO VOTE                        
                                        
                    


                    
the right to vote, it shall have its number of representatives
in Congress reduced. This was shortly afterward supplemented
by the Fifteenth Amendment, which says definitely
that no person shall be disfranchised on account of race,
color, or previous condition of servitude. Thus it was
thought that universal manhood suffrage would be established
throughout the United States.
Votes for women.--About the same time, women began
to take an interest in the ballot and to demand the right to
vote also. They made an eloquent plea to the New York
constitutional convention of 1867 for the ballot, and soon
a petition signed by 80,000 people asking for woman suffrage
was laid before Congress. They appealed also to the doctrine
that governments derive their just powers from the consent
of the governed. They held that they were taxpayers and
just as much concerned in the government as the men. They
said also that the working women needed the vote for their
protection just as much as the workingman needed it for
his. They denied that they were represented in the government,
even though they had no vote. They pointed out how
women had won the right to their own property, the right to
be educated, and the right to enter the professions, and added
that it was impossible to open all the avenues of intelligence
and industry to women and then keep them indefinitely under
the political tutelage of men. In short, they repeated the
arguments which had been made in behalf of universal manhood
suffrage a generation earlier.
Women begin to win the vote.--For a long time after the
Civil War the agitation for woman suffrage bore no fruit,
except in the granting of the right to vote in school elections;
for example, in Michigan and Minnesota in 1875, New Hampshire
and Oregon in 1878, and Vermont in 1880. Only in
the territory of Wyoming did the women have the general
suffrage which was secured to them there in 1869. Wyoming 
came into the Union as a state in 1890 and retained




woman suffrage. In 1893 women were enfranchised in
Colorado and three years later in Idaho and Utah. Then
followed a lull in the agitation for a short period, only to be
revived with renewed vigor at the opening of the twentieth
century. Within little more than a decade five more states
were won by the suffragists: Washington (1910), California
(1911), and Oregon, Kansas, and Arizona in 1912. In 1913
Illinois gave women the right to vote for many officers,
including presidential electors. With eighteen out of the
ninety-six senators and with thirty-seven Representatives
in Congress, from equal suffrage states, excluding Illinois,
the suffragists are now renewing their agitation for a national
amendment, at Washington, with more effect than ever.
Present restrictions on the right to vote.--Having briefly
reviewed the history of the contest for political rights in the
United States since the Declaration of Independence, we
may now bring together the qualifications or restrictions
which are placed on the right to vote in the United States
at the present time.
Citizenship.--Citizenship is a fundamental requirement
of voters in nearly all the states. A few states, however,
allow foreigners who possess the other local requirements
to vote if they declare their intention of becoming citizens.
(a) How aliens are naturalized.--An alien is made an
American citizen in the following manner. After residing
two years at least in the United States, he goes before a
court of law and declares his intention of becoming an American
citizen. Not less than two years, nor more than seven
years, afterward, he applies to the court for his papers of
naturalization, and after ninety days have elapsed he appears
before the judge and his application is heard. If the
judge is satisfied that the applicant should become a citizen,
he thereupon issues the certificate of naturalization. An
arbitrary judge may very readily exclude anybody whom he



sees fit under the plea that the applicant is not of good moral
character or well disposed toward the government. No
foreigner can become a citizen until he has resided here at
least five years.
(b) The alien should become a citizen before voting.--
The political rights of persons of foreign birth are a troublesome
matter. If every alien immigrant were made a voter
the moment he landed, before he knew anything about the
language, laws, and customs of the country, it would be a
bad thing. It is not unfair, therefore, to require him to
become a citizen before voting, because this compels him
to reside in the United States for five years at least before
taking part in the government.
(c) Voters of foreign birth are likely to be clannish.--The
requirement that aliens shall become citizens before voting
does not solve every problem, for thousands of them continue
to live in the foreign quarters of our great cities and to
read their own newspapers and speak only their own languages
long after they have been made citizens. They
sometimes take a very narrow view of politics and are
marched to the polls to vote by political managers without
knowing why they are voting or what they are voting for.
They are sometimes accused of being more ready to sell their
votes than native Americans; but this is not true.
(d) What should be done with the foreign vote.--Nevertheless,
there is a good deal of criticism of "the foreign
vote" by native Americans who seem to think they have
a complete monopoly on this particular section of the earth;
and often the demand is made for some drastic laws against
the voting of persons of foreign origin. The foreigners, men
and women, make up a large part of our hard-working population;
they suffer from industrial accidents, from bad
tenements, long hours of work, low wages, and other evils
of modern civilization. It is not enough to fling at them the
declaration that the United States is better than Russia.



It is not so good but that it can be improved, and foreigners
are not required to endure everything simply because Americans
have been willing to admit them. Instead of denying
the ballot to persons of foreign birth, it is better to educate
them, to improve the conditions under which they live and
labor, and to give them a fair chance to become valuable
American citizens.
The age limit for voters.--All states require the voter
to be twenty-one years old at least--this being the age at
which a man arrives at maturity, the age at which he is
supposed to have judgment enough to manage his own affairs
and take part in the government of his country. The same
age is required for women voters.
Male sex qualification.--Thirty-seven of the states restrict
the right to vote in all elections to men, but, as we have
seen, nine have equal suffrage, while a majority of the other
states allow women to vote in school elections. Illinois has
very recently granted them the right to vote for many state
and local officials, and for presidential electors.
Residence qualification.--The voter must reside for a
certain length of time in the place where he expects to cast
his ballot. Some states require the voter to have resided
within their borders for six months, others for one year, and
a few for two years.
Taxpaying qualification.--A few states--for example,
Arkansas, Pennsylvania, and Tennessee--allow only taxpayers
to vote; that is, those who pay a poll tax have the
ballot. In some Southern states persons who pay taxes or
own a certain amount of property can vote, even if they do
not have the other qualifications mentioned below.
The educational test. -About one-third of the states have
some kind of educational test. Massachusetts requires the
voter to be able to read a section of the state constitution
in the English language and write his own name. Connecticut
has similar requirements. The educational test

Political Liberty

is used in some Southern states as an alternative to other
qualifications (see next paragraph).
How negroes are excluded from voting in the South.--In
the South a number of restrictions have been devised to exclude
the negroes from voting. These restrictions are in
general as follows: (a) the voter must be able to give a
"reasonable explanation" of some part of the state constitution
when it is read to him by the registering officers;
or (b) he must own a certain amount of property; or (c)
he must be a person who voted or the descendant of a person
who voted before 1867; or (d) he must have been a Federal
or Confederate soldier.
(a) The federal Constitution and Southern suffrage
restrictions.--It is sometimes said that the Southern states
which have these restrictions violate the federal Constitution;
but this is not strictly correct. The Constitution simply
says that no one shall be disfranchised on account of race or
color or previous condition of servitude, and the above
restrictions do not violate this rule. The Fourteenth Amendment
does say, however, that when any state excludes male
citizens from voting, it shall have the number of its representatives
in Congress reduced in proportion. If this were
enforced, the Southern states and the Northern states which
have property and educational restrictions would have their
representation reduced; but there is no serious attempt to
enforce it.
Miscellaneous restrictions on voting.-- There are several
distinct types of persons in the states who are not permitted
to vote; such as idiots, paupers, the insane, bigamists and
polygamists, duelists, felons or those convicted of infamous
crimes, and Indians not taxed. Voters convicted of bribery
at the polls are often disfranchised for a certain specified
time. Soldiers and sailors are denied political rights in some
states on the ground that they are within the state, not as
citizens, but merely on duty as representatives of the federal




government, whereas voters of a state are required to be
citizens of that state.
A criminal may regain his right to vote by securing a pardon
from the governor; and often an unpardoned criminal,
who goes to a new state after he has served his prison term
in his own state, can vote, by concealing his identity.


                    
Questions
                    
 What is the difference between civil and political liberty?
 What relation do they bear to each other?
 What has been the history of the right to vote in the United
States?
 What is the distinction in meaning between the words
republic and democracy? Does one necessarily exclude the other?
 Who are "the people" in a political sense? Is it a term that
always means the same thing?
 What arguments were used against manhood suffrage before
it became established?
 What arguments were advanced by workingmen to support
their demand for the vote?
 Where do women vote in the United States?
 What is the political standing of foreigners in the United
States?
 What persons are generally excluded from the right to vote
besides women?

                    
                    

                    
                   Additional Reading
                    
THE RISE OF POLITICAL DEMOCRACY: Beard, American Government,
pp. 79-86.
THE RIGHT OF WOMEN TO THE BALLOT: Kelley, Some Ethical
Gains through Legislation, pp. 172-206; Beard, Readings, pp.
407-410.
OBJECTIONS TO WOMAN SUFFRAGE: Bryce, The American Commonwealth,
Vol. II, pp. 600-612; Beard, Readings, pp. 405-407.
POLITICAL RIGHTS AND DUTIES: Kaye, Readings in Civil Government,
pp. 111-128.
                    

                    

                    



                    

                    
PART II
                                        
THE MACHINERY OF GOVERNMENT--
OFFICERS, ELECTIONS, AND PARTIES



                                        
                                        

                                        

                                        
CHAPTER VII
                                                            
THE GREAT PARTS OF AMERICAN GOVERNMENT
                    

                    
 The study of the machinery of government.
                    
                    
                                        
 Danger in viewing government as merely a set of rules.
 The rules of government cannot always be understood
merely by memorizing them.
 We must study government with a view to discovering its
usefulness to the people.
 The people must decide whether good or bad work shall be
done by the government.
                                        

                    

                    
 How to go about mastering a complicated machine.
                    

                    
 Our national, state, and local governments simply parts of
a big machine.
                                        

                    

                    
 Our government is federal.
                    

                                        
 Why we have a federal government.
 How the Constitution was framed.
                    

                    

                    
 The division of each government into three parts.
                    

                                        
 The origin of the "separation of powers."
 Separation of powers reduces dangers of tyranny by the
majority.
 Our present theory of the separation of powers.
 The separation of powers is a vital matter.
                    

                    

 The separation of powers influences our party politics.
                    

                                        
 Responsibility for government is divided.
 Separation of powers encourages the growth of strong
political parties.
 The separation of powers helps to make the executive a
lawmaker.
                                        

                    

 The separation of powers and the judges of the courts.
                    

                                        
 The recent prominence of the judiciary in politics.
 The power of the judge to declare laws null and void.
 Difficulties arising from the power of the judges to declare
laws void.
 Proposals to change the present judicial system.


                    
               

 Why change in the judicial system is demanded by some
persons.
 Why changes in the judicial system are opposed.
 How our system of the separation of powers checks hasty
action.
 The majority rules in the long run.
                    

                    

                    


                    

The study of the machinery of government.--There is
one view of government which is purely technical, and leaves
out of account altogether the human side of the matter.
From that standpoint civics is merely a study of the rules
which provide how officers shall be elected, how long their
terms shall be, what powers they shall have, and how laws
shall be made for the government of the people.
Danger in viewing government as merely a set of rules.
Viewed in this way, government is simply a matter of
rules; and so absorbed are some people in memorizing them
that they forget other aspects. They grow so interested
in the law about terms, powers, and qualifications that they
come to look upon the law as an end in itself, to be studied
for its own sake, instead of as a means to serve human welfare.
This view also overlooks the most important thing of all;
namely, that the government in fact consists of persons
engaged in doing certain tasks. It requires no great amount
of intelligence to discover that by electing different persons
to offices we may have quite a different government within
limits without any change in the laws at all. Just as a school
may be good under one teacher and bad under another without
any change in the way of choosing school boards and
teachers, so the government may be efficient or wasteful
without changes in the laws about elections and terms of
office.
The rules of government cannot always be understood merely
by memorizing them.--While the student of government
must learn its rules, he must also pay particular attention




to the question of why the rules were adopted at all. He
must also study especially the way in which the persons,
charged with carrying out the rules, go about their tasks.
For example, a law may prescribe that a certain officer shall
be appointed in a certain way, not necessarily because that
is the way to get the best kind of officer, but possibly because
certain politicians may choose one of their own number
if that method is employed. Again, there have been in-
stances of good laws being made to control railway companies
and then agents of the railways appointed to office to enforce
the laws in such a way as to make them of no use to the
public. Examples might be multiplied to show that, when
one knows the mere rules of government as they appear on
printed pages of the law books, one does not necessarily
know very much about government.
We must study government with a view to discovering its
usefulness to the people.--Nevertheless, it is important to
study the laws, or the machinery of government, as it is
called; and, if we fix our attention on the output of the
machine rather than on the machine itself, we get a new
interest in it. We cannot escape the laborious task of learning
about many dry details of government. The master
musician learns all about the machinery of the instrument
on which he plays; the skilled artist studies the chemistry
of paints and oils as well as the great paintings of the masters;
the writer must learn the rules of composition even though
he never intends to write a grammar; and the teacher must
learn about making reports and keeping records, although
the purpose of teaching is to make better and more intelligent
boys and girls. If you can imagine, however, a musi-
cian more interested in organ bellows than in music, or a
teacher more concerned with reports and records than with
boys and girls, you can picture to yourselves the person more
interested in the rules of government than in its achievements.



                    
The people must decide whether good or bad work shall be
done by the government.--The voter has to study certain
machinery or rules of government in order to play an important
part in government, and those who cannot vote must
also study it if they wish to be intelligent members of society.
The government is a great piece of public machinery which
can bring conveniences, comfort, order, and happiness to
millions, or the very opposite of these things, according as the
voters understand it and decide to what use it shall be
put. Like a ship that may be fitted out to carry useful things
from country to country or to bring death and destruction
in battles, so the government may be regarded as an instrument
of oppression or as a servant of public good. It is
for those who direct it to determine its use by their wisdom,
their sense of right, and their votes. Finally, the voter
must know something of the history of government in order
to realize how it has already been changed and improved
from time to time, and in order to understand also how it
may be improved in the future.
How to go about mastering a complicated machine.--
When one undertakes the study of a big and complicated
machine, he does not begin at one end and study all of the
little details one after another until he reaches the other end.
If he does, the chances are that he will not know much about
the machine when he is through. He learns about the
leading parts of the machine first, the principles on which
it is constructed, and the way the chief parts work into one
another; then he masters the minor attachments to the
great parts.
Our national, state, and local governments simply parts of
a big machine.--So it is in the study of government. We
do not start with New York City and go out to San Francisco
by way of Washington, D.C. First, we learn about the big
and important parts of the American governmental machine,
and how they fit into each other, and how all of them at




the same time affect our daily lives. We do this in order to
understand the machine as a working concern, all parts of
which must act together.
Our government is federal.--The first important thing,
then, to know about our great governmental machine is
that it is federal in character. That is, instead of one single
government at Washington making laws on all matters for
all of the people, we have a central government which makes
and enforces laws on matters which are national in that
they concern the people of more than one state at the same
time; and we have forty-eight state governments which
make laws on matters which concern only the people within
their respective boundaries. It is because there is so little
understanding of the work of these two big parts of our
machinery of government that we have people asking the
national government to do things which belong to state
governments and demanding from the state governments
laws on matters ,which the states have no power to touch
at all.
Why we have a "federal" government.--Why we have this
federal system instead of a "unitary" system like France
where one parliament makes laws for the whole republic is
to be explained by referring to our history. Our country
began by small settlements of pioneers, which in time grew
to be colonies: Massachusetts, New York, Pennsylvania,
Virginia, and the rest of the thirteen. When the Revolutionary
War came on, the colonies joined in a common government
principally for mutual defense, and at the same time
each colony set up a government of its own as a state. From
your history you know how, at the close of the Revolution,
the colonists framed a common government under the Articles
of Confederation, as it was called, and gave that government
certain powers over the army, taxation, money, and so forth.
From your history also you know how dissatisfaction with
the Articles of Confederation grew up and how in 1789 a




new system of government under our present Constitution
was framed--a system of government which embraced
national officials invested with certain powers, and at the
same time forbade the states to interfere with certain matters.
How the Constitution of the United States was framed.--
This new Constitution - now over one hundred and twenty-
five years old--was drafted by a convention of delegates
chosen by the state legislatures, who held their sessions at
Philadelphia in the summer of 1787. In drafting the Constitution
they had to be very careful not to give the central government
too much power, for the states were jealous of one
another and they would not have ratified the new document
when it was done if it had interfered seriously in their affairs.
By very ingenious work, the framers of the Constitution contrived
the double system which we now have, and it was approved
in each state by a convention of delegates specially
chosen by the voters (p. 66) for the purpose of passing
upon the scheme submitted by the Philadelphia convention.
This is how it happened that we have a double govern-
mental machine, instead of a single central government.
The division of each government into three parts.--In
constructing our national government and our state governments,
it has been thought best to divide each of them into
three great parts: the legislature which makes the laws; the
executive which enforces them; and the judicial department
which interprets them. You will find this principle adopted
in the national government at Washington, in the government
at the capital of your state, and perhaps in the government
of your city. We say " perhaps," because cities are rapidly
giving up the idea that a good government must be divided
into three parts, and many of them, as we shall see (p. 136)
are giving the lawmaking and the law-enforcing powers to the
same body of men.
The origin of the "separation of powers."--How did the
notion arise that a good governmental machine must consist




of three parts? This is a very hard question to answer briefly,
because it has such a long and tangled history. In the early
days of the English monarchy, the king got into his hands
the power to make such rules as he pleased for his subjects
and also the power to enforce those rules by his own officers--
judges, sheriffs, and other royal agents. In time, as we have
seen (p. 4), certain of the king's subjects wrested from
him the power to make the laws, and vested it in a legislature,
one house being elected by the voters. In time, also, the
king's subjects who could vote began to object to the way
in which the king's judges punished and imprisoned in violation
of the laws, and Parliament at length declared that
the judges must be independent of the king - that is, not
controlled by him but by the Parliament. Englishmen
did not believe that the judges should be entirely independent
of the Parliament, however, with the power to declare laws
made by Parliament null and void. That is a purely American
notion of the judicial power (p. 89).
Separation of powers reduces dangers of tyranny by the
majority.--These three branches-- executive, legislative,
and judicial--were set up in the English colonies in America,
and continued after the Revolutionary War, partly because
of force of habit and partly because of new ideas which had
been developed. In the days of absolute kings, men had
learned that there was sure to be tyranny and cruelty in the
land if the power to make, interpret, and enforce the laws was
in royal hands. In America, the tyranny of one man was no
longer feared; but many great statesmen came to believe
that the danger of tyranny on the part of the legislature representing
the voters was as serious as, if not more serious
than, the danger from a monarchy. The majority of the
voters may be wrong, just as a king may be wrong, so these
leaders thought, and consequently the danger should be
lessened by dividing the power of government into three parts
so that it would be difficult for any one part to exercise its



authority tyrannically, and difficult also for the three parts to
join in the same act of injustice.
Our present theory of the separation of powers.--In time
it came to be held that, although the government ought to
be constructed of three parts, the purpose was not to make the
rule of the majority of voters difficult, or impossible, but
to make sure that there should be a long and fair consideration
of any matter to be determined by the voters, so that
a majority might not suddenly and passionately make a law
oppressing others. This is really the theory upon which the
separation into three powers rests to-day. Any law must
pass the legislature (state or national) which has two branches,
each of which is supposed to check and balance the other
and prevent it from acting hastily. The executive has the
veto power, the power to say to the legislature: "This is an
unjust or unwise law, and I disapprove of it and say it ought
not to be a law at all;" and when this is done by the executive
the legislature must pass the measure again, usually
by a larger majority, if it is to become law in spite of the
veto. But this is not all of the gauntlet which a law must
run. When the legislature has made it and the executive
signed it, a citizen against whom it is enforced may go to the
courts and say : " I think this law is no law at all because the
constitution of this state or of the United States forbids such
a law."  And, if the court agrees, the law is dead. All this
takes a long time, and hence hasty action is impossible. The
people are required to think the matter over carefully.
The separation of powers is a vital matter.--This "separation
of powers" is, therefore, no dull subject to be memorized
by rôte. It is one of the most vital matters of all government.
It involves the fundamental question: "Should a
majority of those who take the trouble to vote in any election
be allowed to make any law they please on any matter they
please without being checked by any device or without being
forced to reconsider the matter very seriously if it touches



                    
                    

                    

                                        
Photo by Underwood and Underwood.
                   
PRESIDENT WILSON READING HIS MESSAGE TO CONGRESS                  
                                        





the life and liberty and property of individuals?" The
American theory at present is that, in the long run, the
majority of the people decide matters rightly, but that there
must be some way of seeing that the "long run" is long
enough.
The separation of powers influences our party politics.--
The separation of the government into three parts for the
purpose of enabling one to check and balance the other has a
very deep influence on the actual conduct of the government
and particularly on the political campaigns for offices.
This can best be illustrated by comparison with the system
in England. There the executive is not the king, for the king
does not interfere in politics at all. The executive is the
cabinet, composed of high government officers selected from
the leaders of the political party in power in the legislature or
Parliament. Any law which Parliament passes is enforced,
for no court can set it aside as null and void, and the men
responsible for carrying the law into effect are the cabinet
officers who sit in Parliament and direct the business of the
legislature. Thus there is what is known as a "fusion"
of the executive and legislative parts of government, instead
of a separation as with us. The cabinet in Parliament is
responsible for whatever the government of England does.
Responsibility for government is divided.--Now in the
United States, the separation of powers divides responsibility
in the conduct of government. The President or governor
has his notions of what laws should be passed, and the legislature
has other notions, and the result is frequently a compromise
in which neither one gains the day, while nobody
can tell whom to praise or blame. Often the executive
cannot enforce a law because the legislature has not voted
money for the purpose or provided for a sufficient number of
officers to carry it out, and thus the executive may be blamed
for not doing his duty, when it is not his fault at all. Again,
it often happens that the legislature passes a good law, which




the executive does not like and therefore takes no pains to
put into effect. Where the same men are responsible for the
making and carrying out of the laws, the people can know
whom to blame if things do not go well; but in the United
States it is thought that the dangers of too hasty popular
action are greater than the inconveniences of divided responsibility.
Separation of powers encourages the growth of strong political
parties.--Another way in which the separation of powers
influences government is in connection with elections and
political parties. In order to get a law made and enforced,
it is necessary for those demanding it to control both the
legislature and the executive, for, if they have one part of
the government and not the other, they cannot be sure of
attaining their end. Hence the separation of powers makes
it necessary for political parties to be very strong, so that
.they can get possession of the entire government. For
example, if a party wishes a law prohibiting the sale of
liquor, it must have a majority in the legislature to pass the
law and, what is equally important, it must get possession
of the executive branch to enforce the law against those who
seek to sell liquor in defiance of the law.
The separation of powers helps to make the executive a lawmaker.
--Another way in which the separation of powers
influences government is in connection with legislation. The
executive, in spite of his title, really has some legislative
powers: he can veto laws and he can recommend laws in
his messages. So it has happened that candidates for the
presidency of the United States and for the office of governor
in the several states announce that they will advocate the
making of certain laws in case they are elected; and the
people are beginning to look to their executives even more
than to the legislatures for the passage of laws in harmony
with campaign promises. This raises one of the prominent
questions of our present-day politics: "Does not the executive




department threaten to overshadow the legislature in
the minds of the voters?" At all events, in elections, we do
not choose executives merely because we think they will be
good men to enforce the laws. On the contrary, we often
think more of what laws they will compel the legislature to
pass by using their messages to stir up discussion and by
threatening to veto certain bills in order to force the legislature
to pass their own. The executive in the United States
is becoming a lawmaker as well as a law-enforcer.
The separation of powers and the judges of the courts.--
For the same reasons candidates for the office of judge are
likewise brought into politics. The judge has the power
to set aside the law passed by the legislature and signed
by the governor if he believes that it is contrary to the constitution
of the state or of the United States. The judge also
has the power to change the law by interpreting it in a way
which the legislature did not intend it to be interpreted.
Rules made by the interpretation of the judges are called
judge-made laws. Since the judge has the power to unmake
laws by declaring them unconstitutional and the power
to change them by interpretation, the voters are beginning
to inquire of candidates for the office of judge: "What views
do you hold concerning the desirability of such and such laws,
and how would you interpret this or that measure if you
were elected ? " Thus the judge, whose chief business is to
decide disputes between private citizens and to try those
charged with crimes, becomes mixed up with politics, and the
voters are beginning to think more about his views on
certain kinds of laws than they do about his fairness and impartiality
in trials.
The recent prominence of the judiciary in politics.--The
position of the judiciary in the scheme of the separation of
powers is so difficult to understand that it is necessary to
explain it at some length. Lawmaking and law-enforcing
are by comparison easier to comprehend, and a great deal




more attention has therefore been given by the voters at large
to the executive and the legislature than to the judiciary.
But recently there has been much talk about the power of
the judges to declare laws null and void, and there have been
suggested many changes in the judicial department. Consequently,
the citizen should give no little thought to the
power of the courts, and particularly to the principles upon
which it depends.
The power of the judge to declare laws null and void.--The
theory of the power of judges to declare laws void is as follows.
There have been laid down in the national Constitution and
the state constitution certain rules providing that the executive
may do this or that and that the legislature may do
this and not do that. Suppose, however, that the legislature,
in spite of the fact that it is forbidden to pass a law abolishing
jury trial, does pass such a law any way. Suppose a citizen
is arrested for a crime and is brought into court for trial.
He says: " The constitution of my state and the Constitution
of the United States both provide for jury trial in case
of a serious charge like this against me and I claim that the
law recently passed by the legislature abolishing trial by
jury is contrary to the higher law-the constitution-and is
therefore null and void." The judge is under oath to support
the constitutions of the state and nation; these constitutions
forbid legislatures to abolish trial by jury in serious crimes;
he must choose between the higher law--the constitution--
and the forbidden law; and he inevitably declares the forbidden
law null and void. Acts of Congress may be declared
void as contrary to the federal Constitution by state as well
as federal judges, but there is always an appeal to the
Supreme Court of the United States in such cases. Acts of
state legislatures are often set aside by federal judges, as
contrary to the federal Constitution.
Difficulties arising from the power of the judges to declare
laws void.--This is the theory of the system, but in practice




the matter is not so simple. It is not often that a legislature
makes a law which is expressly forbidden by the constitution,
and if the courts had held only such laws void there would
doubtless have been little controversy about the matter.
But the constitutions, state and national, do not contain
many clauses forbidding the doing of definite things by the
executive or the legislature; on the contrary, they lay down
rather general principles which may be interpreted one way or
another according to the views of the judges passing upon
them. Here is where the trouble comes in. The legislature
believes that it has the power to pass a certain law, and
thousands of voters believe that the law is both desirable and
constitutional (that is, not forbidden by the constitution);
but the judges of the courts may hold an opposite view and
declare the law null. Then there is an outcry that the judges
are biased and simply setting their will up against that of the
voters and the legislature.
Proposals to change the present judicial system.--The
action of the United States courts and of several state courts
within recent years in setting aside laws has brought about
many proposed changes in the system which now gives the
judges an equal position with the legislature. Some go as
far as to say that the judges have no business at all to set
aside laws; that the will of the people as expressed by the
legislature in a law should be supreme as in England. Other
critics do not go as far. They propose that the voters
should elect the judges of the United States courts, who are
all appointed by the President and Senate for life, as we shall
see later (p. 117). They propose also that all state judges
should be elected by popular vote and that, whenever a
certain percentage of the voters do not like the action of a
judge in a certain case, they may petition for his recall
and compel him to stand for a new election even in the middle
of his term, in order to find out whether the voters approve
of his conduct in applying the law. Still others propose to




"recall," not the judge, but his decision, permitting a certain
number of petitioners to require the submission of the decision
of the judge to the voters to see whether they approve
his action in declaring a law unconstitutional.
Why changes in the judicial system are demanded by some
persons.--Advocates of these changes claim that what
the judge does in setting aside a law is to put his will in the
place of the popular will. They say: "Judges are men like
the rest of us, influenced by what they read, by what they
have experienced, and by the persons with whom they have
associated. When they put on the judicial robe and take
their places on the bench, they do not cease to have the
views which they had as private citizens, and, if they thought
a law undesirable before they became judges, they are apt
to think it unconstitutional as judges. The judge therefore
is reading his own ideas of what should be law into the law
when he holds an act of the legislature void. Thus the judge
is really superior to the law and to the people's will, and it is
necessary to make him subordinate to that will."
Why changes in the judiciary are opposed.--It will be seen
that these proposals go to the root of our system of government.
Those who oppose these changes point this out.
They say that the constitution is the solemn will of the
voters and cannot be changed except in the way provided
for amendment. If the legislature can pass any law it pleases,
there is no necessity of having a constitution at all, and whoever
is in a majority to-day in the legislature can change the
most fundamental matters, such as trial by jury or the right
to hold one's property. Therefore, the opponents of change
say every law passed by the legislature should be liable to
examination by the courts, formed to study the rules laid
down in constitutions and to prevent hasty and unjust actions
on the part of the voters or the legislature whom they elect.
How our system of separation of powers checks hasty action.
--It will thus be seen that our separation of powers brings




about a great deal of friction between the legislature and the
executive and the judiciary. They are always checking one
another, and not infrequently they are quarreling among
themselves as to their respective rights and powers and duties.
The voters are in much confusion as to which branch of the
government most deserves their sympathy and support;
and so it often comes about that only when a considerable
majority of the voters are bound and determined to get a
certain important law passed is it possible to bring all three
branches into harmony.
The majority rules in the long run.--It does not prevent
the majority from having its way finally, but it cannot
have its way quickly or easily. A good example of this is
the federal income tax. In 1894 Congress passed a law
laying a federal tax on incomes; in 1895 the Supreme Court
of the United States set it aside as violating the Constitution.
Those who believed in the income tax continued their
agitation to amend the Constitution so as to get around the
decision of the Court, and after nearly twenty years (1895-
1913) they were able to secure an amendment allowing
Congress to lay income taxes. Those who want to see things
done in a hurry say that this is too long; those opposed to
radical changes reply that it is better to run the risk of being
too long about an important matter than to do things in too
great a rush.
                    
                    

                    
                    Questions
                    
 What are the three parts of American government and what
is the function of each?
 What is the theory behind this division of activity?
 What are some of the disadvantages of this division?
 Is the distinction sharp between these divisions? Illustrate
your answer by some examples.
 In what sense is a judge a political factor?
 What are judge-made laws?



                    
                    
 What changes are proposed in our judicial system?
 What do opponents of those changes say?
 Why should we have respect for the law?
 Explain what is meant by government by majority rule.



                    
Additional Reading
                    
THE SEPARATION OF POWERS: Beard, American Government, pp.
152-155; 164-165; Beard, Readings, pp. 49-53; 138-140.
CONGRESS AND THE PRESIDENT: Bryce, American Commonwealth,
Vol. I, pp. 209-228.
THE COURTS AND THE CONSTITUTION: Bryce, Vol. I, pp. 242-261,
262-277.
THE POWER OF PASSING UPON THE CONSTITUTIONALITY OF
STATUTES: Beard, American Government, pp. 307-314; Beard,
Readings, pp. 274-290.


                    
                  
                   

                    

                    
CHAPTER VIII

THE NATIONAL GOVERNMENT
                    

                    
 The national government is constitutional.
                    

                                        
 The method of amending the Constitution.
                                        

                    

 The national government is representative.
                    

                                        
 The parts of the national government chosen by the
voters.
                                        

                    

 The two houses of Congress.
 The House of Representatives.
                    

                    
Taking the census in order to apportion Representatives.
 Fixing the number of Representatives.
 The numbers of voters in the congressional districts
are unequal.
 Election of Representatives.
 Qualifications of the Representatives.
 How the voter takes part in choosing a Representative.
                    

                    

                    
 The Senate.
                    

                    
 The election of Senators.
 The qualifications and terms of Senators.
 The reason for electing only one-third at a time.
                    

                    

 The meetings of Congress: long and short sessions.
 The presiding officers.
 The making of laws.
                    

                                        
 The committees of Congress.
 How the committee handles bills.
 Voting on bills in the two houses.
                    

                    

 The powers of Congress.
 The special powers of the Senate.
 The election of the President.
                    

                                        
 Why the President is not elected by direct, popular vote.
 How presidential electors are chosen.
 The nomination of presidential candidates.
 The presidential primary.
 The campaign.
 The presidential election.


                    
 Casting and counting the electoral vote.
 Disputed elections.
                                        

                    

 The qualifications, term, and pay of the President.
 Appointing federal officers.
                    

                                        
 The civil service law of 1883.
 The troubles of the President in making appointments.
                    

                    
                   
 The President must enforce the law.
 Pardoning offenders against the federal laws.
 The President as a military commander.
 The President and Congress: the message.
                    

                                        
 The use of the veto power.
 Special sessions of Congress.
 How treaties are made.
                                        

                    

 The President may recognize foreign countries.
 The President's helpers.
                    

                                        
 The Cabinet and the President.
 The Cabinet and Congress.
 Congress might control the Cabinet.
 The distribution of work in each Department.
                    

                    

                    
                    
 The federal courts.
                    

                    
 The power of Congress over the federal courts.
 How the federal courts are brought near to the citizen.
                                        

                    

 What matters go into federal courts.


                    
                    

The national government is constitutional.--The national
government is constitutional; that is, its framework and
powers are described in a famous document drafted in 1787
(p. 84) and they cannot be changed except in a special
manner, by amendment. This Constitution falls into four
main parts. It stipulates (a) how the Congress or law-
making body, the President or chief executive officer, and the
supreme judges shall be elected or chosen; (b) what powers
over the affairs of the people each of the three branches shall
enjoy; (c) what limitations shall be imposed on the state
governments; (d) and how the document itself may be
amended. The seventeen amendments which have been
added merely deal with one or more of the parts just enumerated.
                    


The method of amending the Constitution.--This Constitution
differs from any law made by Congress in that it may be
altered only by an extraordinary method. A change in
the Constitution may be made by a resolution passed by a
majority of two-thirds in each house of Congress and approved
by the legislatures or by conventions in three-fourths
of the states. A second way of changing the Constitution
is for Congress, on the application of two-thirds of the state
legislatures, to call a national convention to propose amendments,
which amendments must be approved, however, by the
legislatures or by conventions in three-fourths of the states.
The only method which has thus far been employed is that of
passage by Congress and ratification by state legislatures.
The rule that it takes a two-thirds vote in Congress and the
approval of three-fourths of the states makes it difficult to
change the Constitution unless a very large majority of the
people are in favor of it.
The national government is representative.--Since there
are about fifteen million voters in the United States, it is impossible
for them to assemble at one time and place to make
known their needs and wishes about laws and their enforcement.
They therefore choose agents to go to Washington to
enact the laws for the nation and to look after putting them
into effect. Thus our national government is "representative"
in character, not a direct democracy in which all
voters act for themselves.
The parts of the national government chosen by the voters.--
The voters send three kinds of agents to Washington to carry
out their will: (1) four hundred and thirty-five Representatives,
one for about every 220,000 persons in the United
States; (2) two Senators from each state ; and (3) a President
and Vice President representing the whole union. The first
two groups of agents are elected by the voters directly, and
the President and Vice President are chosen by electors
selected by the voters.


                    

                                        
THE CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES

The two houses of Congress.--Those representatives who
are sent to Washington to make laws are called Congressmen,
and all of them together are called " The Congress of the
United States." This body is composed of two groups or
Houses, as they are termed: the House of Representatives,
consisting of four hundred and thirty-five members, and the
Senate, consisting of ninety-six members. There are two
reasons given for dividing Congress into two houses instead
of putting all of the lawmakers into one body: (a) In the
lower house the people of each state are represented roughly
according to their numbers, so that a large and populous
state like New York may have more members than a small
state like Delaware; while in the upper house each state enjoys
equal power, because it has two Senators. Without
this arrangement it would have been impossible to have
formed the Constitution of the Union in 1787, for the small
states demanded equality. (b) The two houses are supposed
to check and balance each other and thus prevent
impulsive action on the part of either.
The House of Representatives.--The House of Representatives
is now composed of four hundred and thirty-five
members. The number is fixed by Congress itself every ten
years after the national census is taken. The number is then
apportioned among the states roughly according to population--
about one Representative for every 220,000 people;
but each state has at least one Representative even though it
does not have 220,000 inhabitants. Although these Representatives
are elected directly by the voters, the theory is
that they represent those who cannot vote also. This is
called "virtual representation," as opposed to direct representation
by personal choice through the ballot.
Taking the census in order to apportion Representatives.--
Every ten years a census of the population of the United


                                        
States is taken in order to readjust representation according
to the growth or decline of population in each state. Employees
of the federal government are sent from house to
house throughout the entire country to get information about
the number of the people; and within recent years information
about other matters, such as occupations, wealth, industry,
and crops, has been collected at the same time. There
is an office in Washington known as the Bureau of the Census
where this information is all received and tabulated.
Fixing the number of Representatives.--After each census
Congress fixes the number of Representatives and then this
number is divided among the several states on the basis of
their respective populations. The state legislature must lay
out the state into districts so that not more than one member
shall be elected from each, but if the state legislature does
not do this, all the members (in the case of a new state) or
the members added by the new apportionment are elected
"at large"; that is, by all the voters of the state. In laying
out districts, the political party in power in the state legislature
usually does not make the congressional districts equal in
population, but tries to arrange them so as to get as many
of its members elected as possible. This practice of outwitting
the opposite party in arranging congressional districts
is known as "Gerrymandering."
The numbers of voters in the congressional districts are very
unequal.--It will be noted that the number of Representatives
which each state gets depends upon its population, not
upon the number of voters; but the Constitution adds that
if any state deprives any of its adult male citizens of the vote,
it shall have its number of Representatives reduced in proportion.
That is, if a state by law excluded one-third of its
adult male citizens from the vote, it should have one-
third of its Representatives taken from it. The Southern
states, as we have seen, have deprived most of the negroes
of the ballot; but no attempt is made to enforce this portion


                                        
of the Constitution (the Fourteenth Amendment) against
them. Thus it came about in 1912 that one Representative
from Mississippi was chosen by 3,154 voters, while in a district
in California where women vote, the Representative
elected had 20,341 votes, one of his opponents 18,756 votes,
another opponent 10,585 votes, and a third opponent 4,892
votes. That is, a defeated candidate from this California
district got six times as many votes as did the elected member
from the Mississippi district.
Election of Representatives.--Members of the House of
Representatives are elected every two years, in the even
numbered years, 1914, 1916, 1918; and the election is held
in every state except Maine on the Tuesday following the
first Monday in November. In case of a disputed election,
where two or more persons claim the place, the House itself
decides the matter after having an investigation by one of its
three committees on elections.
Qualifications of the Representative.--A Representative
must have been a citizen of the United States for at least
seven years; he must be twenty-five years of age and an
inhabitant of the state in which he is chosen. He cannot be
at the same time an officer of the federal government, and he
is usually a resident of the congressional district from which
he is chosen. He is paid a salary of $7500 a year, and he is
allowed "mileage" or traveling expenses at the rate of twenty
cents a mile to and from Washington. He is also given a
certain amount for clerk hire, stationery, and other minor
expenses.                                     
How the voter takes part in choosing a Representative.--
Each citizen is a resident of some congressional district
from which a member of Congress is chosen.1 If the citizen is
a voter, then he or she is called upon in the autumn of every


1 The District of Columbia has no Representative in Congress. Hawaii,
Alaska, and Porto Rico send one delegate each to the House and the Philippines
two delegates, but they have no vote.



even numbered year to vote for some candidate for that place.
But before the election the "nomination" takes place; that
is, each political party selects its candidate for membership in
the House of Representatives. The voter takes part as a
member of his party in making this nomination, either by
choosing from among a number of party members who
are "up for the nomination" at a direct primary 
(p. 148), or by voting for one or more delegates to go to a congressional
district convention to make the party's selection for
the place. The voter must watch out, therefore, for the
"primary" at which it is decided who shall be the candidate
of his party as well as for the election at which the final choice
is made.
The Senate.--The Constitution prescribes that there
shall be two Senators from each state and adds that no state
shall ever be denied its equal representation without its own
consent. Senators are not apportioned, therefore, according
to population, for the very smallest state has an equal representation
with the largest. New York State, with a population
of nine millions, in round numbers, has one Senator for
every 4,500,000; Nevada, with eighty-one thousand inhabitants,
has one Senator for every 40,000. That is, one voter
for a United States Senator from Nevada is equal to one
hundred voters in New York. Nevada has one hundred
times the representation in the Senate to which it would be
entitled according to the rule of population.
The election of Senators.--Another part of the plan of the
founders of our government for making the Senate more sober
and conservative and less liable to hasty action was the original
provision that Senators should be elected "indirectly";
that is, not by the voters, but by the legislatures of the respective
states. The founders thought that if candidates for
the Senate were compelled to go out in campaigns and appeal
to the voters directly for their votes, they would be too much
in sympathy with popular demands, and would therefore not



be a check on the House at all. There was some objection to
this plan, even at first, however, and more than seventy-five
years ago an amendment was proposed in Congress to the
effect that Senators should be elected directly by the voters
just as were the governors of the states. The amendment was
not adopted, and the matter was dropped until after the Civil
War. The Senate was unwilling to provide for a popular election
and defeated the efforts of the House of Representatives
to pass the amendment until 1911-1912 when it was at last
carried, submitted to the states for ratification, and in 1913
became the Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution.
Henceforward, United States Senators are to be elected
by popular vote.
The qualifications and terms of Senators.--The Senator
must be at least thirty years old--five years older than the
Representative; he must have been a citizen for nine years
and he must be an inhabitant of the state that sends him.
The term of the Senator is six years--three times as long as
that of the Representative. Moreover, all of the Senators
are not elected at once as are the members of the House.
One-third of the Senators are elected every two years, so
that only one-third of the body is renewed at every election.
The reason for electing only one-third at a time.--This plan
for having only one-third of the members elected at one time
is a part of the general scheme of the framers of the Constitution
for preventing impulsive action on the part of the legislature.
If all the members of both houses were elected at
one election, after an exciting campaign, they might come
together in great fervor and pass many laws without due
deliberation. As it is, there is always a majority of the members
of the Senate already in office and prepared to check
any hurried action on the part of the Representatives and
those Senators who have just come in.
                    



                    
            

CONGRESS AT WORK
                     
The meetings of Congress: long and short sessions.--
Congress meets every year on the first Monday in
December. The Congress elected in November, 1914, for
example, meets for its first or "long" session on the first
Monday in December, 1915, unless the President calls it
in a special session (p. 113). This first session of a Congress
lasts until all business on hand is transacted.  It
usually adjourns the following spring or early in the summer,
but there have been instances of the first session of a Congress
lasting from December until the following October. The
second session of the Congress elected in 1914 begins on
the first Monday in December, 1916, and lasts until the following
March 4th.
The presiding officers.--In order that it may have
regular debates and conduct its business in a systematic
fashion, each house has a presiding officer and a set of rules
stating how laws shall be passed, debates conducted, and
votes taken. The Vice President of the United States presides
over the Senate and has a vote in case there is a tie; but, in
the absence of the Vice President, the Senate chooses one of its
own members to preside. In the House the presiding officer
is known as the Speaker. He is selected by the "caucus"
of the party which has a majority in the House, and his
nomination is formally approved by the House. The presiding
officer chosen by each house is a member of the political
party which has a majority in it. When there is a
Democratic House, the Speaker is a Democrat.
The making of laws.--How are laws made by Congress?
Any member of either house may write out any bill--proposed
law--which he wishes passed and introduce it. There
is one exception to this rule. Senators do not introduce bills
providing for laying taxes because all such bills must start in
the House of Representatives, although the Senate can amend



House bills raising money. A member may introduce as
many bills as he pleases, and more than thirty thousand are
introduced in every session of Congress.
The committees of Congress.--When a bill, or draft of a
law, is introduced in either house, it is referred to a committee.
It would be impossible for each house to take up in order, as
introduced, every bill and discuss it. Accordingly, each
house appoints a large number of committees composed of
from five to fifteen, or even more, members. It is so arranged
as to give the political party that has a majority in the
House of Representatives a majority on each committee of
the House; and the same rule is usually followed in the
Senate. Consequently, each committee is a sort of model of
the house itself. There is a committee for every important
group of matters which Congress has to consider. The
committee on Ways and Means of raising revenue is the
most important in the House, and a similar committee on
Finance is the most important in the Senate.
How the committee handles bills.--When a bill is introduced,
it is at once put into the hands of the proper committee,
which decides whether or not the bill shall come before the
house for debate and passage. The committee has a room of
its own, with books and papers bearing on the affairs which
it considers, and it has clerks and sometimes experts to advise
it on important matters. It may summon private persons to
tell what they know about any proposed bill and permit them
to say whether the bill should pass or not and why. If the
committee decides to report the bill to the house for debate,
it may report it in the form in which it was introduced or it
may make changes. If the committee decides against any bill,
it is almost impossible to get it before the house for debate.
Voting on bills in the two houses.--When a bill is reported
from the committee it is discussed on "a second reading "
in the house for a certain length of time according to the rules,
and then a vote is taken upon it. In transacting business it is




necessary that there should be a quorum present -at least
one more than one-half the total number of members. If a
majority of the quorum present vote "aye" on the bill on
its second and third readings, it is sent to the other house for
action. It there goes through the same process and if passed
it is sent to the President for his signature (p. 112).
If the two houses disagree on a bill, each appoints a
small number of members to hold a joint conference and come
to some compromise if possible. It is customary for both
houses to accept an agreement thus reached by a joint conference
committee.
The powers of Congress.--Congress has only those powers
which are given to it by the Constitution (p. 315), and they
are in the main as follows:


                    
 To lay and collect taxes.
 To regulate foreign and interstate commerce.
 To declare war and maintain an army and navy.
 To create a monetary system.
 To establish post offices and post roads.
 To govern the territories and the District of Columbia.
 To make all laws necessary to carry into effect the powers
conferred above.
                    


It is important that the student should know this list of
powers, but as we shall see below (p. 178, for example) it
really does not tell us very much about what Congress can
actually do in any specific case.
The special powers of the Senate.--While it is apparent
that the two houses enjoy almost equal rights in lawmaking,
there are other matters in which their powers are different.
The Senate has the power of approving or rejecting
treaties which the President may make with foreign countries
(p. 114); and the Senate also has the power to exam-
ine the nominations made by the President to certain high
offices and to approve or reject them  (p. 110). The
House of Representatives cannot interfere in these matters



but it can start an action to remove any federal officer, even
the President himself, by voting to impeach him before the
Senate. When the House decides to impeach an officer by a
vote, the officer is tried before the Senate acting very much
like a court. A committee from the House accuses the
officer before the Senate of the crimes or misdemeanors in
question, witnesses are heard, speeches for and against the
accused are made, and the Senate by a two-thirds vote may
convict. Conviction amounts to removal from office and
to disqualification to hold any other federal office.
                     

                    

                    
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
                    
The election of the President.--The representative of the
voters of the nation at large is the President. The Vice
President has so little to do with the government that he
quite properly receives slight attention. He presides over
the Senate and may have a taste of power in case there is a
tie vote on a question, when he decides the matter. A Vice
President is chosen for the purpose of having another officer
ready in case the President dies or is incapacitated to act as
chief executive.
Why the President is not elected by direct popular vote.--
The President and Vice President are not elected by the
voters directly. The framers of our Constitution had in
mind the same idea with regard to the presidency that they
had with regard to the Senate. They feared stirring up too
much popular excitement over the election of the President
in case the voters could cast their ballots directly for candidates
for that high office. They therefore provided for the
selection of a special body of men (to be chosen in each state
as the legislature thereof might decide) whose sole business
it should be to look over the field and very solemnly and
deliberately discover the best man for President. This
special body is known as the presidential electoral college,



and each state is entitled to a number of electors equal to its
number of Representatives and Senators at Washington
(p. 98).
How presidential electors are chosen.--At first many of the
state legislatures chose the presidential electors without
referring the matter to the voters at all; but after a time
every state provided that its presidential electors should all
be elected on a general ticket by the voters. That is, if a
state is entitled to ten electors because it has eight Representatives
and two Senators, every voter is given the right
to vote for ten persons on the same ticket. In fact each
of the political parties in every state selects a complete list
of electors for the state, and the voters, in voting the party
ticket, simply approve the entire list thus prepared.
The nomination of presidential candidates.--The most
important preliminary to the election of the President is the
nomination. Every four years, in the summer before the
election, each party holds a national convention composed
of several hundred delegates apportioned among the
several states, and chosen by the party members, either
directly or indirectly; and the convention selects the members
of the party who are to be the candidates for President
and Vice President. Then in each state the party fixes up a
list of candidates for the office of presidential elector, all of
whom, it is known in advance, will vote for the man selected
by the convention as the party's choice for President. Thus
by a very roundabout way we have something like a popular
election of the President. The method is the same, of course,
for the Vice President.
The presidential primary.--In order to put the choice of
President more directly into the hands of the voters, several
states have set up what are called " presidential preference
primaries " which permit party members not only to select
delegates to the national convention but also to say whom
they want their national convention to nominate. This



system was tried in Massachusetts, New Jersey, California,
Oregon, and a few other states in the campaign of 1912, and
some people are so bold as to prophesy that the national convention
will be abolished soon, or at least become a mere
assembly for registering the choice made by the party voters
at the primaries.
The campaign.--After the nomination is made by the
party, the national committee of each party begins the campaign
to win the election. It appoints, with the advice of the
candidate for President, a chairman and a treasurer to manage
the campaign and raise funds to pay expenses. A million
dollars or more is usually spent in a campaign by each of the
old parties, and the sums of money raised from rich men to
defray the expenses are so enormous as to constitute a grave
menace (p. 156); for the practice gives undue strength
to the party with the longest purse.
The presidential election.--The voter on the day of a
presidential election (Tuesday following the first Monday in
November every four years, 1916, 1920, etc.) does not in fact,
however, vote for nominees for President and Vice President,
although their names appear on the ballot under the emblem
of his party. He chooses from the candidates for presi-
dential electors, whose names have been placed on the ballot
by the respective political parties. At the presidential election
there is chosen in each state a number of electors equal to
the number of Senators and Representatives of that state in
Congress. The party which has the most votes secures all of
the electors, for usually the voter votes for all the candidates
for elector nominated by his party and only under exceptional
circumstances are presidential electors chosen from more
than one political party in the same state.
Casting and counting the electoral vote.--The electors of
each state meet at the state capitol on the second Monday
in January following the November election and cast their
ballots for the nominees of their party for President and Vice



President. The copies of ballots thus cast by the electors of
the several states are then sent to the President of the Senate
of the United States. On the second Wednesday in February
following, the president of the Senate in the presence of the
Senators and Representatives in joint session opens the
ballots, and they are counted. The two candidates for President
and Vice President having a majority respectively are
declared to be elected. The inauguration follows on March
4th.
Disputed elections.--In case, however, no candidate
receives a majority of the electoral votes for President, the
House of Representatives must choose, by majority vote, a
President from among the three candidates standing highest
in the election, and when the House so elects, all of the Representatives
from each state have only one vote. How that is
to be cast they must decide for themselves. In case no one
receives a majority for Vice President, the choice of that
officer is made by the Senate, each Senator having one vote.
There have been two instances of such elections of President:
in 1800 when Jefferson and Burr were tied, and in 1824 when
there were four candidates who received electors' votes and
John Q. Adams was chosen by the House.
The qualifications, term, and pay of the President.--The
President must be thirty-five years old, a native-born citizen
of the United States, and fourteen years a resident of the
United States. His term of office is four years, and he may
be reflected for any number of terms, although custom has
decreed that no President shall have more than two terms
- at least in succession. The President's salary is $75,000
a year, and he is given the use of the Executive Mansion, or
White House as it is known, and a considerable sum of
money for traveling and other expenses. The Vice President
is paid $12,000 a year but is not furnished a house free of
charge.
                    



                    

                    
THE PRESIDENT AT WORK

The President has two kinds of duties to perform:. (a)
those laid upon him by law, and (b) those which he chooses
to undertake as a man and as the leader of the political party
which placed him in power.
Appointing federal officers.--One of the most difficult
tasks confronting a new President on his inauguration is the
appointing of several thousand officers in the federal government.
There are in all about 400,000 federal officers, but a
majority of these are selected by competitive examinations.
There are only about 10,000 officers who are appointed by
the President himself, usually with the consent of the Senate.
The most important of these are the following:
                    


The ten members of his Cabinet.
Federal judges (when there are vacancies).
Postmasters in the more important towns and cities.
Collectors of customs at the ports.
District attorneys.
Ambassadors, consuls, and other representatives of the
United States abroad.
Heads of important bureaus in Washington, like the Commissioner
of Immigration and the Director of the Census.


The civil service law of 1883.--In older days it was customary
for a new President to turn out of office those who did
not belong to his political party, and, whenever parties
changed, the whole army of federal employees was dismissed.
The practice of distributing offices among political colleagues
is known as the "spoils system." Since the passage of the
civil service law of 1883, however, it has been a steadily
growing practice to appoint mindr officers, such as railway
mail clerks, and clerks in government offices at Washington,
on a basis of merit tested by examination rather than on a
basis of party membership. That is, candidates for such





                    
THE WHITE HOUSE
                    



                    
                    


places are selected after a competitive examination; they
hold their offices during good behavior; and they are not
removed simply to make room for persons belonging to
another party. At the present time over 200,000 government
employees are under such civil service rules.
The troubles of the President in making appointments.--
Notwithstanding the reduction in the number of offices to
which the President must appoint, it is a very troublesome
task and takes up a good portion of the first year of his term of
service. There are so many candidates for every place that
the President is literally besieged at his office by them and by
members of Congress supporting their friends who seek appointments.
The President must not only get good men, but he
must smooth out conflicts in his party by giving each faction
some " plums " as they are called; he must recognize all
parts of the country by selecting the officers from all sections;
and he must not stir up too much opposition from labor
unions or from employers. It is made especially difficult by
the fact that the President has the power to remove the
federal officers whom he appoints, and whenever there is any
objection to the way a federal officer acts there is likely to
be a clamor for his removal and the appointment of some
one else.               
The President must enforce the law.--A second important
duty laid upon the President is the enforcement of the
federal law. This he does in several ways: (a) by requiring
the men whom he appoints to office to do their duty well and
faithfully; (b) by having the Attorney-general and other federal
prosecutors (p. 118) start suits in the courts against
those who break the federal law; and (c) by using the
soldiers of the United States to enforce the laws when the
regular civil officers are resisted by mobs.
Pardoning offenders against the federal laws.--Akin to
the duty of enforcing the law is the power of pardoning persons
who commit crimes against the United States--steal



mail, make counterfeit money, or smuggle in goods without
paying customs duties, among other things. In this matter
the President has a free hand. He may be generous or hard-
hearted, as he chooses. When a prisoner applies for pardon,
the President has an officer look up the case and see whether
the applicant deserves mercy or whether the court was too
harsh in imposing punishment.
The President as military commander.--It is the duty of
the President to act as commander-in-chief of the army and
navy of the United States. He cannot declare war--that
power is given to Congress alone--but when war is declared
he must supervise the movements of the armed forces on
land and sea (p. 206). Moreover, whenever the legislature
of a state (or the governor, if the legislature is not
in session) calls upon the President for aid in putting down
riot, it is the duty of the President to respond by sending
federal soldiers to the scene of trouble.
The President and Congress: the message.--We now
come to the second group of duties which the President may
perform more to his own liking and with more freedom of
choice. How he performs them depends upon his personal
views of what he ought to do as a man and leader of his
party. The first of these is the duty of sending messages to
Congress. It is true the Constitution says that the President
" shall" do this, but the way in which he does it depends
upon himself. He may write short messages of no consequence
or interest, or he may stir up the whole country by
demanding that Congress pass certain important laws or
make important amendments to the Constitution. By using
this power of sending messages in a proper way he may win so
much popular support that Congress may be compelled to
pass laws to which it is secretly opposed.
The use of the veto power.--Closely connected with this
power of sending messages to Congress is the power of vetoing
bills passed by Congress (p. 105). This power was



given to the President because it was believed that he should
check the legislature in case it enacted too radical laws.
As we have seen, every bill passed by Congress must be signed
by the President unless he chooses to allow it to become a law
without his approval--which happens when he fails to act
within ten days (unless Congress adjourns meantime). If
the President does not like a law, he can veto it and send it
back to the house in which it originated with any comments
he may wish to make. When he vetoes a bill it cannot become
a law unless two-thirds of both houses pass it again.
Through a free use of the veto, a President may block as
many measures as he pleases and call the attention of the
public to the way Congress is acting. Of course, he cannot
go too far because he is dependent upon Congress for the
money with which to carry on the government; but it is
clear that an easy-going President need not use this power at
all, while a strenuous President, who thinks he is bound by
his duty to his party or to the country to stop certain laws
from being passed, may become a great power at Washington.
By threatening to veto some measures which Congress wants
he may force that body to pass bills which he recommends in
his messages. By using these means the President may in
fact exercise large legislative powers.
Special sessions of Congress.--Akin to the power of sending
messages and vetoing laws is that of calling Congress in a
special session. The President may do this at any time and
compel Congress to consider some important matter about
which he thinks a law should be made. For example, if
Congress should fail to pass a law recommended by the President
at the regular session, and adjourn without paying any
attention to his recommendations, he may call the members
back soon and tell them to take up the matter again. Of
course Congress does not have to obey the demand for a law,
and it may adjourn again without acting; but if the President
has great popular support, Congress will take the President's



suggestions very seriously. As a matter of fact, however, the
President does not call special sessions without consulting
the leaders in Congress. So it happens that a special session
is usually called only after an agreement has been reached
between the President and the party managers in Congress.
How treaties are made.--The President may make treaties
with foreign countries, but they do not go into effect until
approved by a two-thirds vote in the Senate. A treaty is an
agreement with a foreign nation about some matter of
common interest; such as, the treatment of our citizens
abroad and of foreign subjects in the United States or the
fisheries off the coast of North America or plans for settling
disputes without going to war. The President alone can start
a treaty; no one can compel him to take up the negotiation
of any agreement with a foreign power; and no one can prevent
him from making a treaty. But of course it does not
go into force until the Senate approves. The Senate may
amend treaties sent to it by the President, and in such cases
the President must ask the foreign countries concerned
whether the changes are acceptable, unless he decides to
drop the matter altogether. Sometimes there is a dispute
between the President and the Senate over treaties; for
example, President Taft favored a treaty with Great Britain
providing a plan for settling practically all future quarrels by
peaceful arbitration, while the Senate refused to approve his
plan.
The President may recognize foreign countries.--The
Senate cannot itself, however, force the President to accept
any plans for treaties with foreign countries. The President
is the spokesman of the nation in dealing with other powers.
He receives their ambassadors and ministers, and in fact he
can refuse to recognize a foreign government if he pleases.
A great many changes have taken place in Europe and South
America since we became a nation. Monarchies like Portugal
and China have become republics, and when new governments



are set up they seek recognition from other countries:
admittance to the family of nations, so to speak. The
President may say to such a country: "I do not recognize
your existence in the new form, and I will not receive your
ambassador." Or he may say: "I am happy to say that
the United States (whatever other countries may do) welcomes
you into the family of nations."
The President's helpers.--The President cannot know
everything about the government and do everything him-
self. He has therefore ten official advisers who are together
called his Cabinet. These advisers are known as the Secretaries
of State, War, Treasury, Navy, Interior, Agriculture,
Commerce, Labor, the Attorney-general, and the Postmaster-
general.
The Cabinet and the President.--Cabinet officers are
appointed by the President; the Senate, although it has the
power of confirming, regards the selection of the Cabinet as the
President's own affair and does not interfere. The President
can remove cabinet members without asking the consent of
any one. Although they are given more or less discretion in
managing their own affairs, they are answerable to him in the
performance of their duties, and the country holds the President
responsible for important policies adopted by them and
even for speeches made by them on live issues.
The Cabinet and Congress.--While the members of the
Cabinet are thus in a sense the President's responsible advisers,
they are by no means independent of Congress. Congress
decides how many and what cabinet offices shall exist and the
salaries and duties attached. Congress decides how many
officers shall be appointed under each cabinet officer and what
they shall do. Congress may take away the duties of one
secretary and give them to another. The power thus enjoyed
by Congress compels the secretaries to look to that body for
many favors; such as, increases in salaries of departmental
employees, the creation of new divisions or bureaus within



the department charged with new duties, or the appropriation
of money to carry on new work or investigations.
Congress might control the Cabinet.--If Congress saw fit,
therefore, it might tie the cabinet officers down very closely
and not give them much freedom in managing their affairs.
At all events, although the cabinet officers are the President's
advisers, neither they nor the President can do anything
forbidden to them by the law or anything important which is
not authorized by Congress. For example, there was recently
established a Children's Bureau to study the problems of
children in the United States. Neither the President nor any
cabinet officer could have done this. Congress had to pass a
law creating it and providing the money for its expenses.
It also added this bureau to the responsibilities of the Department
of Labor. If the President wanted a Secretary of
Railways, for example, he could not just name one himself,
and draw on the Treasury for the salary.
The distribution of work in each department.--The work
allotted to each department of the federal government is
divided out among a number of bureaus, divisions, and
offices, all subject more or less to the direction of the secretary.
For example, in the Department of the Interior, there
are the general land office in charge of the granting and sale
of public lands, the pension office, the geological survey engaged
in locating and estimating the natural resources of the
United States, the bureau of forestry, and several other
divisions. Whenever the federal government decides to
undertake some new work, it gives the task to a bureau or
division already created, or it forms a new bureau or division
to take charge of the enterprise. There are, however, two
important branches of the federal government which are not
under the supervision of a cabinet officer: the civil service
commission, which aids the President in enforcing the civil
service law (p. 110), and the interstate commerce commission.
                    



                    


THE JUDICIAL BRANCH OF THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

The federal courts.--We have spoken of the judiciary as
a distinct branch of the government in the section about the
division of powers (p. 89). It now remains to say a few
words about the federal courts, in particular, although we
must be brief, because this is a difficult and troublesome sub-
ject except for those who can give years to the study of the
law. Indeed, it is only necessary for the citizen to know a few
important facts about the courts, unless he is often involved in
disputes about property or is likely to be arrested for crime,
and even then he will depend upon a lawyer for advice and
information. Those important facts we shall try to make
very clear.
The power of Congress over the federal courts.--In the first
place, we have a set of federal courts quite distinct from the
state and local courts. Only one of these courts, the Supreme
Court, is mentioned in the Constitution; all the other federal
courts are created by Congress, and even the number of members
and work of the Supreme Court are matters determined
by Congress. Congress decides how many Supreme Court
judges there shall be; where federal courts shall be set up
throughout the United States; how many such courts there
shall be in each state; how many judges shall be appointed
to each court; and what federal cases (with minor exceptions)
shall be heard by each court. Congress cannot,
however, say how Supreme Court judges shall be appointed;
that power is given to the President and Senate by the Constitution.
In fact, all federal judges are appointed by the
President and Senate, and they hold their offices for life, unless
removed by impeachment.
How the federal courts are brought near to the citizen.--In
order that federal judges may be near at hand for the citizen,
Congress has laid the whole country out into about eighty
districts, and in each district has provided for one or more


                    
federal district judges to hear disputes and try men accused of
crime against the federal government. Each district court
has a district attorney who prosecutes criminals and a federal
marshal who carries out the order of the court. These
officers are also appointed by the President and Senate. In
order that serious matters may be retried in higher courts,
Congress has laid the county out into nine great circuits, and
in each circuit has placed a federal circuit court of appeals.
At the top of the system is the Supreme Court at Washington,
composed of nine judges, whose business it is to hear,
among others, those cases in which it is claimed that acts
of Congress are unconstitutional (p. 90).
What matters go into federal courts.--These federal
courts, it is important to remember, attend to federal affairs
only (see the Constitution, p. 319). If a man breaks
into a jewelry store and steals a watch, the United States
marshal will not arrest him, or if he should arrest the burglar
and take him before a federal judge, the latter would say, "I
have no jurisdiction over this crime; it is not committed
against the United States. This is a matter for the city,
county, or village court, as the case may be." If, however, a
man smuggles in goods from Canada, it is the business of the
United States marshal or a special federal detective in the
customs service to catch him and take him into a federal district
court for trial. Again, if a man wishes to sue a neighbor
who has sold him a house on a misrepresentation, the federal
courts will not try the case; but if he wishes to sue a person
residing in another state, he may take the case into a federal
court if he likes. The line of division between the state and
federal courts is hard to draw, and not one person in a thousand
need ever know about it in detail.



                    

                    
JUSTICES OF THE SUPREME COURT
                                        




                    
                
                 



                    
Questions
                    
 What is the Constitution of the United States? What are
its main divisions?
 How may the Constitution be amended?
 Describe the composition of Congress.
 How are Representatives chosen? How are Senators chosen?
 Why do Senators retain their office for a longer term than
Congressmen?
 What is a gerrymander?
 How are laws made by Congress?
 What are the powers of Congress?
 What is the difference in the powers of the two houses of
Congress?
 What control does the political party have over the selection
of the President?
 What are the duties of the president?
 Does he have legislative power?
 What is the spoils system?
 Tell all you can about the Cabinet and its relation to
Congress.
 Describe the distribution and work of the federal courts.
                    
                  
                    

                    
Additional Reading
                    
FORMATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE CONSTITUTION: Kaye,
Readings in Civil Government, pp. 31-73; Beard, American
Government, pp. 34-77.
THE FEDERAL SYSTEM OF GOVERNMENT: Bryce, American Commonwealth,
Vol. I, pp. 312-408; Beard, American Government,
pp. 145-165.
NOMINATION AND ELECTION OF THE PRESIDENT: Beard, American
Government, pp. 165-186; Readings, 154-175; Jones, Readings
on Parties and Elections, pp. 80-106.
THE ELECTORAL COLLEGE: Jones, Readings, pp. 115-118.
THE PRESIDENCY: Beard, American Government, pp. 187-214;
Readings, 176-196; Bryce, Vol. I, pp. 38-84; Kaye, Readings,
pp. 184-210.
CONGRESS: Beard, American Government, pp. 231-293; Readings, pp.
214-272; Bryce, Vol. I, pp. 97-209; Kaye, Readings, pp.
129-183; Haskin, The National Government, pp. 248-286.



                    
THE FEDERAL JUDICIARY: Beard, American Government, pp. 294-
315; Readings, pp. 273-290; Bryce, Vol. I, pp. 229-277;
Kaye, Readings, pp. 243-260; Haskin, The National Government, pp. 312-361.
THE CABINET: Beard, American Government, pp. 215-230; Bryce,
Vol. I, pp. 85-96; Kaye, Readings, pp. 125-141..
SENATORIAL ELECTIONS: Jones, Readings, pp. 125-141.
ELECTIONS TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES: Jones, Readings,
pp. 147-164.


                    

                    



                    

                    
                    
CHAPTER IX

STATE GOVERNMENT
                                        

                    
 The state is not a federation.
                    

                                        
 How the voters of the state may provide for the government
of any section of the state.
 Constitutional law.
                    

                    

 The parts of a state constitution.
 The state legislature.
                    

                                        
 The legislative districts of the state.
 The election of members of the state legislature.
 The legislature at work.
 Powers of the state legislature.
                    

                    

 The executive department of the state.
                    

                    
 The minor state officers.
 The position of the governor and of the President compared.
 The legislative business of the governor.
 The governor's executive duties.
                                        

                    

 The state supreme court.
                    

                    

                    
The state is not a federation.-Although many writers
sharply divide the government within each state into central
or state, municipal, and local government, it should be remembered
always that the state is not a federation of counties,
cities, and villages, as the United States is a federation of
states. The Congress of the United States, for example, has no
power to say how a state shall be governed, how long a governor
shall serve, or whether there shall be one or two houses in
the state legislature. The legislature of the state, however,
can usually (see Home Rule, p. 130) decide how many
members there shall be in all the city councils within the state,
what salaries county commissioners shall be paid, and how


                    
long mayors shall serve. The voters of a state can set up
any kind of central, city, or local government which they
please, as long as they do not do something which the Constitution
of the United States expressly forbids.
How the voters of the state may provide for the government
of any section of the state.--The voters of a state organize
their central, city, and local governments in three ways: by
establishing a state constitution in which are written down
many things about the way the affairs of the state shall be
managed; by laws passed by the legislature acting under the
constitution so established; and by town, city, and county
by-laws and ordinances. To find out, for instance, how we
are governed in any particular city, it is necessary to look
into the state constitution, into laws passed by the state
legislature, and into ordinances adopted by the city council.
For this reason it is important to think of the state as a whole
rather than to view it as made up of many smaller parts.
Constitutional law.--The essential difference between a
state constitution and any law passed by the legislature is
this: the constitution is supposed to be a higher law, more
solemnly deliberated upon than any ordinary act of the legislature,
and it cannot be changed by the legislature but only
by some particular method of amendment laid down in the
constitution itself. The usual methods of changing the state
constitution are as follows : by a convention especially elected
subject to popular approval; by an act of the legislature approved
by the voters at the polls; and in a few states by
the initiative and referendum, which are described later.
The parts of a state constitution.--At the beginning of a
study of the state government, it is necessary that we should
look into the constitution of the state. We shall find that it
falls into several parts:
                    

                    
It says that there are certain rights which all citizens
shall enjoy; such as, trial by jury and freedom of religious
worship.



 It says who shall have the right to vote.
(3) It fixes the number of members of the legislature and
tells in general how the two houses shall work.
 It forbids the legislature to do a large number of things.
 It tells how the governor shall be elected and what
powers he shall have.
 It names a number of central and local officers who
shall be elected or appointed, and states what they shall do in
a general way.
 It contains some rules about the way in which cities,
counties, and towns shall be governed, leaving the rest to the
legislature or the people of the locality to settle for themselves.
There are many other matters mentioned in some state
constitutions, and it would be an excellent idea for you to take
the constitution of your state and compare it with this table.

                                        

                    
The state legislature.-- Each state has the three branches
of government which we have described already (p. 84): a
legislature, an executive department, and a judicial department.
Each of our states has two houses in the legislature,
a lower house, known as the Assembly or the House of Representatives
or by some other name, and an upper house, called
the Senate. There is no such marked difference between
the two bodies in the theory of representation as we
found between the Senate and the House at Washington
(p. 98). United States Senators represent states, and each
state has the same number, no matter how many inhabitants
dwell within its borders; but state senators represent districts
within the state, and these districts are usually laid out
in such a fashion as to make them all roughly equal. The
state senator is generally older than the member of the lower
house and elected for a longer term. The upper house is also
smaller than the lower house, so that the senator represents a
larger district than the assemblyman.
The legislative districts of the state.--Both houses are
elected by the same voters. That is, any person who can



vote for a member of the lower chamber can vote for a senator
as well. Thus each voter resides in two legislative districts:
the larger sending a senator and the smaller a member of the
lower house. We have said that these districts are roughly
equal, but we should remark that the equality is very rough
indeed. In Connecticut, for example, every town has one or
two representatives in the lower house, no matter how many
inhabitants it has. So it comes about that a little town with
a handful of voters has a member in the legislature, while
another town with several hundred voters may have only one
member. You may find out how fairly divided your state is
by getting from the secretary of state the annual publication,
which usually gives the names of the members of your legislature
and the number of votes cast in each district. It would
be an interesting study to find out whether a voter in your
own district counts for as much or for more than a voter in
some other district.
The election of members of the state legislature.--Every
year or two the voters in your district are called upon to
choose a representative for the lower house and a state senator.
In the summer before the election each of the political parties
picks out its candidates. The party does this either (a) by
holding a convention at some town or city, to which are sent
delegates from small localities, townships, or precincts, as the
case may be, who are chosen by party members; or (b) by
having a party election called a direct primary. If the direct
primary method is used, no convention is held at all, but any
member of the party may run for the nomination and have
his name put on the party ballot. At the primary day the
party members choose, from among those running for the
nomination, the candidate to be put up against the candidates
of the other parties. Thus the whole party is supposed to be
behind its candidate. The voter at the regular election,
therefore, usually has no other choice than between the candidates
of the two or three or more parties. Of course, any



voter not a member of a party may run for the legislature, on
an independent ticket if he likes, by getting up a petition
signed by a certain number of voters, and thus having his name
put on the ballot with the names of the candidates of the
parties.
The legislature at work.--The legislature meets every year
or two at the state capitol and makes laws. It works very
much in the same way as the Congress at Washington. The
lieutenant 'governor, if there is one, like the Vice President,
presides over the senate, and the lower chamber chooses a
speaker. Bills are introduced, referred to committees,
debated, and voted upon as at Washington (p. 103). And
laws passed by the legislature are submitted to the governor
to sign or veto, except in the single state of North
Carolina, where the governor has no veto power.
Powers of the state legislature.--As to the powers of the
state legislature and the Congress of the United States, there
is this fundamental difference: the former may do anything
that is not forbidden by the state constitution (or the federal
Constitution), while the latter can do only those things which
the federal Constitution authorizes it to do.
The executive department of the state.--The chief
executive of the state is the governor. He is elected by popular
vote for two or four years (Massachusetts one year and
New Jersey three years). As in the case of all other elections,
a nomination of candidates is made by the various political
parties, in advance. This choice of the party candidate for
governor is made in one of two ways: by a convention or by
the direct primary. If the convention method is used, the
party members, at a primary election, choose delegates to go
to the state party convention, and there agree upon a candidate
for governor, and at the same convention other state
officers, such as the lieutenant governor and the secretary of
state, are nominated. In a majority of states, such as Oregon,
Wisconsin, and Oklahoma, the party convention has been



abolished and the party candidates for state offices are chosen
by a direct primary; that is, at an election within the party,
at which party members have a chance to vote directly for the
man whom they would like to see as their party candidate
for governor. The aspirant for office has his name put on
the primary ballot usually by presenting a petition signed by
a certain number of the members of his party.
The minor state officers.--The executive department
generally includes the following chief elective officers in addition
to the governor:
                    

(1) A lieutenant governor, who presides over the senate
and may become governor in case of the death or resigna-
tion of the latter.
(2) A treasurer, who guards the money of the state.
(3) An auditor or comptroller, who keeps the accounts.
(4) An attorney-general, who advises the governor on
points of law, prosecutes offenders against the state, and
defends the state when it is sued.
(5) A secretary, who keeps the records of the state and
compiles election returns.
(6) Sometimes railway commissioners, a surveyor and
engineer, and other officers.

                    
The position of the governor and President compared.--We
have said that the governor is the chief executive of the
state, but this is not true in the sense that the President is
the chief executive of the United States. The governor
has no cabinet; the high officers of the state, like the secretary,
the treasurer, the auditor, and the attorney-general, are
not under the governor. He does not appoint them, and he
cannot remove them. Their duties are fixed by the law and
they are as independent within their offices as the governor
himself. They are almost always elected by the voters
just as the governor is elected, and their responsibility, as far
as they have any, is to the voters, not to the governor.
They may be, and often are, of a different party, and may



conduct their business in a way that does not suit the
governor at all.
The legislative business of the governor.--In fact, as things
stand now, the governor is more concerned with making laws
than enforcing them, although in times of riots and violence
he is responsible for the use of the militia in maintaining
order. The governor's connection with lawmaking arises,
like that of the President, from the power to send messages,
to veto laws, and to call special sessions of the legislature.
The voters of the state are coming more and more
to look upon the governor as their agent, charged with securing
certain laws and with preventing the enactment of other
laws. The governor now feels called upon to recommend
to the legislature the important measures which his party
advocated in the election campaign; and, if the legislature
refuses to accept his recommendations, he may "take the
stump"--that is, go about the state making speeches, stirring
up the voters to urge their representatives in the legislature
to accept his plans. The legislature is likely to be wasteful
and extravagant in spending the state's money, and the
voters look to the governor to veto appropriations which
he thinks unnecessary. Hence it has come about that the
governor's chief business is legislative rather than executive.
Like the President, he may call a special session of the legislature
to consider anything which he lays before it, and
this is a powerful tool in his hands,--a whip, so to speak,
which he can hold over the lawmakers.
The governor's executive duties.--Of course, the governor
does have some executive duties. He appoints quite a
number of important state officers, such as superintendents
of prisons and other institutions, sometimes the commissioners
who supervise railways, or the superintendent of education.
He must usually, however, secure the consent of one
or both branches of the legislature to such appointments. He
is the head of the state militia, and may use it on important



occasions when a riot gets the better of the local police. He
may pardon criminals, but frequently he shares this power
with a board of pardons. But with all this it can hardly be
said that the governor is responsible for the way the laws
are enforced within the state. He cannot compel the prosecutors,
state and local, to go after lawbreakers on pain of
instant removal from office. And heads of the important
departments who are elected by popular vote may ignore
his orders.
The state supreme court.--Every state has a high or
supreme court composed of three or more judges. In most
states, these judges are elected by the voters for a term of
years. In a few commonwealths, however, they are appointed
by the governor and senate or by the legislature.
It is the business of this high court, sometimes known as
the supreme court or the court of appeals, to hear cases
appealed from the lower courts - the county and city courts.
It, too, has the power to declare acts of the state legislature
null and void on the ground that they transgress either the
state or the federal constitution. If a state court declares
that a state law is void because it is contrary to the federal
Constitution, there is no appeal to the Supreme Court of
the United States. The other courts we shall consider
below when we take up city and local government.
                    

                    
Questions
                    
 What is the composition of the state legislature?
 What part does the political party play in selecting state
representatives?
 What is the difference between the powers of Congress and
those of the state legislature?
 What is the direct primary?
 Who has the greater executive power: the president or the
governor? Why?
 Does the governor have any legislative power? In what way?
                    





                    Additional Reading
                    
THE CONSTITUTIONAL BASIS OF STATE GOVERNMENT: Beard,
American Government and Politics, pp. 428-457;  Readings,
pp. 391-410; Bryce, American Commonwealth, Vol. I, pp.
411-426.
THE STATE EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT: Beard, American Government,
pp. 488-515; Readings, pp. 431-456; Bryce, Vol. I,
pp. 498-506.
THE LEGISLATURE: Beard, pp. 516-546; Readings, pp. 457-487;
Bryce, Vol. I, pp. 481-497; McCarthy, The Wisconsin Idea,
pp. 194-232.
THE STATE JUDICIARY: Beard, pp. 547-577; Readings, pp. 488-
508; Bryce, Vol. I, pp. 507-517; McCarthy, pp. 233-272.
THE VALUE OF STATE ADMINISTRATIVE EXPERTS: McCarthy,
pp. 172-193.
                    

                    



                    

                    
CHAPTER X

THE GOVERNMENT OF CITIES
                    
                    

                    
 Home rule for cities.
 The city council.
                    

                                        
 The powers of the city council.
 Limits on the powers of the city council.
                                        

                    

 The mayor of the city.
 The departments of city government.
 Civil service rules for cities.
 The city courts.
                    

                    
 Importance of police courts.
 How the judge may help offenders.
 Some new special city courts.
                    

                    

 National politics and local elections.
                    

                                        
 The nonpartisan election.
                    

                    

 Recent changes in American city government.
                    
                                        

 Commission government for cities.
 The city manager plan.
 Direct democracy in cities.
                    

                    



                    

                    
Home Rule for cities.--The legislature of the state may
decide what kind of government any or all of the cities within
the borders of the state must have, unless the state constitution
otherwise provides. State legislatures have interfered
so much with cities and so unfairly that many states,
Ohio, Missouri, Oregon, and California, for instance, have
adopted what is called Home Rule--that is, the cities within
those states may decide for themselves (within limits) what
kind of government they prefer. Where this system is in
vogue, the voters of the city may choose a charter-drafting
board to draw up a plan of city government which goes




into effect when approved by the voters. Thus, for
example, a city in Ohio may choose to be governed by a
mayor and council, or by a commission or board of three or
five men, or in almost any other way that it chooses.
As times goes on, more and more states are adopting this
Home Rule system. Where it does not prevail the legislature
of the state makes the charter or law governing the
city. The charter is a sort of constitution.
The city council.--As we might expect, there are all kinds
of city governments in the United States; but amid the
bewildering variety we can see certain general plans. Like
the state, every city has a lawmaking body--a little legislature
which makes rules, called ordinances, for the government
of the people of the city. This legislature is known as
the city council or board of aldermen or commission.      It
may be elected in two ways. The city may be divided into
districts, or wards, like the state, and one or more members
elected from each district; or all the members may be elected
at large; that is, by all the voters of the city. Where this
last method is followed, each voter can ballot for as many
men as there are members of the council, instead of just for
one or two from his little district. A few cities have two-
chamber councils like the Congress at Washington or the
state legislature; but this idea is going out of fashion for
cities aid they are abandoning it.
The powers of the city council. - The powers of the city
council are important. Unless otherwise arranged, it decides
in general how much money shall be raised by taxation
and for what purposes it shall be spent. It grants
franchises to companies to operate street-car lines, gas
works, and other public utilities within the city, and it sometimes
regulates the prices to be charged. It makes ordi-
nances about the use of the streets, parks, and public buildings,
about factories, theaters, and tenements, and about
matters dangerous to life and health.



Limits on the powers of the city council.--But it should
be noted that the powers of the city council are limited in
many ways. In the first place the right to make the estimates
for the amount of money to be spent is, in some places,
taken away from the council and given to the mayor, or comptroller,
or a special board. In such cities, the council may
reduce the amount proposed by the mayor or board, but it
cannot increase it. The mayor has a veto power also. The
regulation of matters like factories, tenements, and theaters
is being done more and more by the state legislature, in
spite of the home rule idea which we have just mentioned.
Furthermore, city after city is adopting the initiative
and referendum plan which allows the voters to make their
own ordinances, or nullify any ordinance adopted by the
city council. How this is done we shall explain in Chapter
XII.
The mayor of the city.--The chief executive of the city
is the mayor, and in our big cities, like Boston, New York,
Chicago, and San Francisco, his position is more like that
of the President than that of the governor. That is, he has
the power of appointing very many of the chief officers, like
the commissioners of the police, fire, street cleaning, park,
and other departments. Where he has this power, he is
of course personally responsible for the conduct of the city's
business. If it is run badly, it is because he has appointed
incapable men, and inasmuch as he can remove them when
he likes, continuous bad management is his fault. This
"mayor plan" of city government is very popular because
it enables the, citizen to know whose fault it is if the laws
are poorly carried out.
The departments of city government.--The executive
business of the city--the collecting and disbursing of
money, the building, repairing, and cleaning of the streets,
fighting fires, protecting health, educating the children,
supervising the waterworks and other plants which the



city owns, the regulating of private car lines and other
utilities, and keeping order and arresting criminals--is
divided up among several officers and departments, the number
of which depends upon the size of the city. In some
cities, the officers and department heads are appointed by
the mayor; in others, by the council; and in others, some
are elected by popular vote. It is, indeed, quite common
to have the school board, which manages the city's schools,
elected by the voters.
Civil service rules for cities.--It is customary for the
city which has the " mayor plan " of government to elect
by popular vote one or more officers besides the mayor--
usually financial officers, but sometimes certain heads of
departments as well. The rank and file of the city employees
are appointed by the mayor or the heads of depart-
ments, but this appointing power is now closely restricted
in many important cities by civil service rules. That is,
the appointing officer cannot pick any person he pleases for
any vacancy that may occur, but is compelled to take from
a list of "eligibles," comprising those who have passed
competitive examinations for such positions. In the old days
the city council appointed the city officers, but that power
has now been nearly all taken away. Appointment under
civil service rules rather than popular election or choice
by the council is now the most approved form of selecting
municipal employees.
The city courts.--In every city of considerable size there
is one or more police courts to which offenders arrested by
the police are ordinarily taken. These courts try persons
charged with misdemeanors, such as drunkenness, breaking
windows, petty theft, disorderly conduct, and fighting.
Persons charged with more serious offenses are held by the
police justices for trial in higher courts. In addition to the
police courts there is one or more higher criminal courts in
which serious offenders are tried. Furthermore, there are



lower civil courts for the trial of suits between private parties
over property of small amount, and higher civil courts for
the trial of suits involving larger amounts.
Importance of police courts. - The criminal courts, and
particularly the police courts, deserve the most careful
attention. They are closely connected with the police system,
for the spirit and attitude of the police judges or magistrates
help to determine whether the policemen are vigorous
or careless in checking crime. These judges are usually
appointed by the mayor or elected by popular vote. In
either case, the voters should seek to understand the position
of the police courts in city life, for the selection of judges is a
serious matter. The judges must understand both the
necessity of supporting the police administration in keeping
good order, and of protecting the citizens from undue molestation
on the part of the police. It is important that the
judges should know the influence of labor, wages, and living
conditions on the people of the city in order that the sentences
which they pronounce upon people who are brought before
them for trial may be as fair as possible.
How the judge may help offenders.--A kind word, a gentle
rebuke, or a helping hand at the right moment may stay a
new offender on his downward course or may save from despair
some poor person whose chief offense is his ignorance,
or who may have been arrested without warrant by an ignorant
policeman. On the other hand, brutality and indifference
in a police magistrate may fill the prisons with persons
who do not rightfully belong there; may embitter
many citizens against the kind of justice that is meted out,
and permit hatred so to develop that the people will regard
policemen and magistrates as their worst enemies instead of
the guardians of liberty.
Some new special city courts.--In addition to the regular
police courts, our larger cities have many kinds of special
courts to deal with different kinds of offenders.



The first of these special courts that comes to mind is the
Juvenile Court, where young children are tried. We discussed
this court in the section on Human Rights (p. 52).
Another court is called the Domestic Relations Court.
Here are brought many questions between husbands and wives.
There are Night Courts in which offenders taken into
custody late at night may be tried without having to spend
a night in jail awaiting trial. In New York there are separate
night courts for men and women. When it is remembered
that about half of the prisoners brought into the
courts are discharged without punishment, the value of a
speedy trial becomes evident.
National politics and local elections.--It is interesting
to note that all of our political parties are formed on national
issues and that their "organization" of conventions and
committees runs throughout every state and almost every
locality in the whole country. Men who were drawn together
in the Democratic party or the Republican party
because of their views on slavery or the tariff remained together
in state and municipal elections, although those elections
never did have and could not have much connection
with the tariff or slavery. Thus it comes about that men
who are in fact agreed on a municipal policy are found fighting
one another in municipal elections simply because they
happen to differ on national questions. It is only the
Socialists who have a municipal platform based on the
same principles as their national platform and who advocate
practically the same municipal policy throughout the
country.
The nonpartisan election.--In order to enable voters who
agree on municipal matters to work together in city elections
although they differ in state and national politics, it
is now quite common to separate city elections from state
and national elections and hold them at other times. It is
also common practice to make city elections "nonpartisan";



that is, to forbid political parties to make nominations
and to prohibit the use of party emblems and names on
the ballots (p. 152). Under the nonpartisan system,
nominations for council and mayor are made by petition,
and the nominees are not permitted to put the names of the
parties to which they belong on the ballot. It is hoped that
under this plan all citizens interested in municipal improvements
may be able to unite on a city program instead of allowing
such vital matters as municipal health, housing reform,
and social welfare generally to be lost to sight in the scrambles
of the political leaders for office.
Recent changes in American city government.--If we
look at the history of city government in the United States,
we shall see that the drift of affairs has been about as follows.
We began with a council which elected the mayor,
appointed the city officers, made ordinances, and conducted
all of the business of the city. In time, the practice grew
up of giving the mayor more power, having him elected by
the voters, allowing him to veto ordinances and to appoint
many officers. The heads of departments, like the chief
state officers, were made elective for a time and then changed
to appointive officers. Meanwhile, the council, often because
it was too large, or corrupt and negligent, lost many of its
former powers and honors and dwindled away into a petty
body, for which citizens entertained little respect. With
all the experiments, citizens were still dissatisfied, for they
found their cities not as well governed as they had a right to
expect under any of the schemes.
Commission government for cities.--The latest of all the
plans of city government is known as the "Commission"
form which originated in Galveston, Texas, after the great
flood of 1900. This scheme does away with the separation
of executive and legislative powers altogether and puts the
entire government of the city into the hands of a small number
of men,--usually five, sometimes three, rarely seven



                    

or nine,--known as a commission. All the commissioners
are elected at large by the voters. Sometimes one of the
five is called the mayor, but usually he has no more power
than the others -just the titular honor. The city's business
--fighting fire, cleaning streets, maintaining a police force,
and the like--is divided into five parts and one commissioner
is placed at the head of each part and made responsible
for its management. The ordinances of the city are
made by all the commissioners acting as a small town council;
and taxes are laid, and rights granted to street car and other
companies, in the same manner. The idea back of this plan
is to put the city's business into the hands of a small number
of men so that everybody can know who is responsible if
anything goes wrong. The chief merit of the system is that
it may interest the citizens more in the government of their
city if they can know exactly on whom each duty rests.
But like all other schemes it will not give the citizens any
better government than they actually want.
The city manager plan.--A modification of the commission
plan of city government was introduced in 1912, when
Sumpter, South Carolina, adopted a "city manager plan."
Under this plan the commission or small city council is
retained, but it does not undertake any executive work.
The executive work is intrusted to a "city manager"
chosen by the commission or council and authorized to take
charge of the entire business of administering the government
of the city, including the right to appoint the chief
subordinate officers. The commission or council thus
becomes the legislature, and appoints the chief executive to
carry out the laws. In choosing a city manager the commission
or council may search the country for the best
person. Thus it is hoped to develop in time a class of
expert city managers, as capable in the field of municipal
government as the heads of railways or great private corporations
are in their respective fields, and at the same time have



popular control through the commission or council, and perhaps
the initiative, referendum, and recall besides. The
plan has also been adopted in Dayton and Springfield, Ohio,
and in Phoenix, Arizona.
Direct democracy in cities.--Another feature in the development
of nonpartisan government in cities is the introduc-
tion of "direct government" in the form of the initiative
and referendum (p. 163), which enables the voters to
decide on city ordinances and franchises quite apart from
the candidates of parties for office. Under the initiative
a certain percentage of the voters may initiate an ordinance
and require its submission to all the voters for their approval.
Under the referendum a certain percentage of the voters
may order a referendum on an ordinance passed by the town
council; that is, require its submission to the voters so that
they may decide whether or not it is to go into effect. To
these devices, the "recall" is frequently added, permitting
a certain percentage of the voters to demand the recall of
any elective officer and require him to submit to the test
of a new election. These devices are now to be found in
one form or another in nearly all commission government
cities and in many others besides.
                    

                    
                    Questions
                    
 What is meant by Home Rule for Cities?
 What is a city charter?
 What is the most general plan of city government?
 What is commission government?
 Why have cities been altering their form of government so
much?
 How are the powers of a city council limited?
 How do national politics come into city affairs?
 What efforts are made to check this, and why?
 How are municipal employees selected?
 Describe the various kinds of city courts.




                    

                    Additional Reading
                    
MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENT AND ADMINISTRATION: Beard, American
City Government, pp. 31-128; Bryce, American Commonwealth,
Vol. I, pp. 628-679.
HOME RULE FOR CITIES: Beard, pp. 31-51; Kaye, Readings in
Civil Government, pp. 336-368.
COMMISSION GOVERNMENT: Beard, pp. 92-97; Kaye, 356-360.
MUNICIPAL DEMOCRACY: Beard, pp. 52-87; Kaye, pp. 503-527.
EFFICIENCY IN CITY GOVERNMENT: Brubre, The New City Government,
pp. 100-124.
SECURING EFFICIENT PUBLIC SERVANTS: Brubre, pp. 335-360.


                    



                    

                    
CHAPTER XI
                    
GOVERNMENT IN COUNTRY DISTRICTS
                    

                    
 Differences between rural and city problems.
 Our system of rural government is very ancient.
 The county government : the board.
                    

                                        
 The county officers.
                                        

                    

 The town or township.
 The village.
 The local judicial system.
                    

                                        
 The importance of the county prosecutor.
                                        

                    

 State interference with local government.
                    

                    


Difference between rural and city problems.--Rural government
is simpler than city government. Country people
have their own water supply and they ride about in their
own carriages and wagons rather than in public conveyances.
It is because the city government does so many things for
the citizen which the man in the country does for himself
that it is so expensive and so much more difficult to manage.
Our system of rural government is very ancient.--The
system of government which obtains in rural regions is the
oldest part of American government and it has changed the
least in the course of our development. The very names,
county, town, and village, run back for more than a thousand
years in the history of the English-speaking people;
and some of the local offices were old when America was
discovered. It is only recently that the spirit of change
which has led to so much experimenting in city government
has begun to move in rural regions. A start was made in



Los Angeles County, California, in 1912 when the commission
form of government, now so popular in cities, was
adopted for the county in place of the old system.
The county government: the board.--Every state in
the Union is divided into counties (called parishes in Louisiana);
but the business which the county government does
varies immensely from state to state. In the Southern and
Western states 'generally the county looks after a number
of matters which are attended to by the town (equivalent
to township in the West) in New England. The county
government varies so much that it is difficult to say anything
that is true of the whole country. Quite commonly
the county has a sort of legislature, known as the board of
county commissioners, or supervisors. This board is sometimes
composed of representatives from the townships within
the county; sometimes it consists of only three or more
members elected from three separate districts within the
county; or again the members may be elected at large. The
board decides what money shall be spent for roads, bridges,
poor houses, and other public matters within the county;
but it has little or no lawmaking power.
The county officers.--The executive department of the
county, if we may use the term, consists of the sheriff whose
business it is to carry out the orders of the county court and
keep the peace of the county; the auditor who audits the
claims against the county; the treasurer who keeps the
county funds; the clerk who keeps the records; sometimes
a recorder to preserve the records of deeds and mortgages
a public prosecutor whose duty it is to run down and bring
to trial those who commit crimes; and generally a school
superintendent. It is customary to have these officers elected
by the voters for short terms. Inasmuch as they do not
make laws, but merely carry out laws already made, there
is usually no great interest in their election. The chief
problem is to get honest and capable men; but too often the



politicians of the county look on these offices as mere rewards
for campaign work.
The town or township.--The county is divided into townships,
or, as they are known in New England and some
other states, "towns."   There is considerable difference
between a township in Indiana, for instance, and a town in
New England. They are alike only in the fact that they
are both districts within a county. In New England the
rural district or town began with a church congregation,
each male member of which had a voice in managing its
affairs. Later, when non-church members came into the
communities, the plan of having meetings of all men in the
church to run affairs was abandoned, and the meeting of the
"freemen" or voters in the town hall took its place. This
system prevails to-day.
The government of the town in New England then is the
" town meeting," composed of all the voters in the district,
farmers as well as villagers, who assemble at the town hall
once a year, or oftener if need be. At the town meeting a
board of "selectmen " is chosen to manage the business
during the year; there also are chosen a clerk, a tax collector,
overseers of the poor, constables, and other local officers.
In an Indiana township, on the other hand, the voters never
all come together at a town hall to decide matters or elect
officers. The township officers are elected by ballot and their
duties are not as important as are those of the New England
town officers, because so much of the local business there is
looked after by the county government.              
The village.--When a few hundred people come to dwell
close together in a rural region, they usually want to be made
independent of the township, the town, or the county, and
form a separate government of their own. Thus it happens
that between the township and the city we have the "village,"
which is simply a small district rather thickly populated,
set off from the surrounding rural regions and permitted



to govern itself by a board and a president elected
by the voters.
The local judicial system.--Country districts, like the
state and the nation, have their judicial departments. The
county has a court of its own presided over by the county
judge who is usually elected by the voters. In that court
are tried those charged with the more serious crimes and
suits over property which involve more than petty sums.
The town or township has its court, presided over by a justice
of the peace, also elected by the voters. The justice
of the peace tries petty offenders and holds preliminary trials
of serious offenders whom he binds over to a higher court
for trial and punishment. The justice of the peace also
hears controversies between citizens involving property to
the amount of only a few dollars--perhaps as much as two
hundred dollars.
The importance of the county prosecutor.--A very important
officer connected with the rural judicial system is the
county prosecutor who has deputies scattered about over
the county. It is their business to run down criminals in
the towns and villages as well as in the country districts.
Whether the law against liquor selling, gambling, thieving,
and disorderly conduct generally is put into force depends
upon the character and zeal of these officials. It is their
duty, too, to bring to trial local officers who embezzle
money or otherwise violate the law relative to their offices.
State interference with local government.--The State
is exercising an ever larger control over local affairs. This
is often a good thing although communities contend that
they have a right to do as they please in their own matters.
That may be true, but what is their own concern solely?
Does it make no difference to the people of other counties
whether one county allows disease to spread within its borders
and overleap them, or keeps such poor roads that no
one can travel over them in safety? The state officers are



usually men of higher training than the local officers and they
are not afraid of what their neighbors in the town will say
when they compel a farmer to clean up his barn before he
can sell any more milk in the city. The state officers often
bring new ideas into backward and self-satisfied regions where
people would go on indefinitely living a half-civilized life
if they were not disturbed. Nevertheless in some western
states there is a strong feeling against too much interference
with local government, and in California the county has been
given " home rule," like that given to cities (p. 130).
                    

                    
                    Questions
                    
 Why have city governments changed their form more often
than rural governments?
 Is there a typical form of rural government?
 Where are laws for rural control made?
 How much independent executive control do rural governments
have?
 Describe the rural judicial system.
 What are some of the common needs of urban and rural
communities?


                    

                    
                    Additional Reading
                    
SURVEY OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT: Bryce, American Commonwealth,
Vol. I, pp. 596-627; Beard, American Government, pp. 638-
655; Readings, pp. 556-566.
For a full description of the machinery of local government, see
J. A. Fairlie, Local Government in Counties, Towns, and Villages
(1906, Century Company).


                    

                    

                    

                    
                    CHAPTER XII

THE POLITICAL PARTY AND THE GOVERNMENT
                    

                    
 Political parties, or the government and public sentiment.
                    

                    
 How the political party is formed.
 Party principles and issues.
 How parties and issues have changed.
 How third parties have sprung up.
                                        

                    

 Party organization and methods.
                    

                    
 Nominating officers.
 Making the party platform.
 The high importance of the primary.
 Managing the campaign.
                                        

                    

 How the citizen may influence politics.
 Plans to secure an honest ballot and a fair count in elections.
                    

                                        
 The registration of voters before elections.
 The secret ballot in primaries and elections.
 The principles of the "Australian ballot."
 Party column and Massachusetts ballots.
 Nonpartisan ballots.
 The maintenance of good order at election places.
 How the parties watch each other at the polls.
 The importance of the hours for opening and closing the
polls.
 The use of money in primaries and elections.
 Sources of money for use in primaries and elections.
 How money is spent in campaigns.
 Laws controlling use of money in elections.
 Publicity in primaries and elections: the Oregon plan.
                                        

                    



                    
                    

Political parties, or the government and public sentiment.
--We have now spoken of the machinery of the govern-
ment, of the lawmakers and other public officers who are
chosen or appointed to do certain tasks in the name of the



people. What they do and how they work depend upon
public sentiment - upon the ideas and determination of
the voters who choose the officers. If enough voters decide
that any branch of the government should operate in a
certain way or should do a certain piece of work, it is done.
How the political party is formed.--When a great many
people with different ideas and occupations dwell together,
however, there are certain to be differences of opinion over
what the government should do and how it should work.
These differences of opinion among voters lead those who
hold similar or identical views to come together, hold meetings,
spread their doctrines, elect managers and committee-
men--in a word, form a political party of their own. A
political party, then, is a group of voters banded together
for the purpose of electing government officers, to control the
government, and undertake certain kinds of governmental
work.
Party principles and issues.--The general ideas which
the members of a party agree should be carried out form its
"party principles," and the points on which the various
parties disagree are called the "issues of the campaign."
As new inventions are made, new ways of doing business
devised, and new notions arise about what the government
ought to do under the changed circumstances, issues change
and old parties must alter their principles or perish. The
truth of this statement has been exemplified again and again
in our history.
How parties and issues have changed.--At the opening
of the nineteenth century there were two parties in the
United States: the Federalists and the Democratic-Republicans,
as the followers of Jefferson were styled. Within a
generation, the Federalist party had disappeared altogether
and no longer put up candidates for office. Jefferson's party
had its own way for a time, but many changes were made
in its doctrines, and about 1828 it was generally known as


                    
the Democratic party. Before long another party began to
oppose it - the Whigs, who elected two Presidents and then
died, as a party, because its members could not agree on the
question of slavery. When the Whig party went out of
existence (about 1854), the Republican party sprang up to
oppose the extension of slavery into the Western territories
and to champion a protective tariff and the granting of
public lands in small lots to homestead settlers. The Democratic
party was divided on the slavery question, and after
the Civil War it of course dropped the slavery issue and took
up other questions.
How third parties have sprung up.-- From time to time
voters have disapproved the principles of both the Republican
and Democratic parties, and on this account new parties
have arisen. The farmers formed a party of their own
known as the Populist Party about 1892, and this group had
a large influence on both the old parties, for it vigorously
championed income taxes, popular election of senators, and
other measures which the older parties later took up. The
working class also tended to gravitate toward a party of its
own, and hence came labor parties and finally the Socialist
party which has now grown to be about as strong as the
Populist party was in its best days in the early nineties. More
recently those who were dissatisfied with the Republicans
and the Democrats and were not willing to join the Socialists
began to call themselves "progressives" because they
wanted to make certain changes in the government and its
work. For a time these progressives all remained in their
former parties, but in 1912 many of them broke away and
formed a new party bearing the name Progressive. Thus
we see new groups developing and regroupings taking
place in political parties all of the time. The citizen must
be on the watch to discover which of the many plans laid
before him by party advocates is best for the public welfare.
The man who boasts that he has voted for one party all



his life is now likely to be set down as more foolish than
patriotic.
Party organization and methods.--In order for any
party, new or old, to get possession and keep possession of
the government it must "organize"; that is, it must elect
managers, or officers and committeemen,--township,
county, state, and national,--and it must select candidates
for all the various offices. If the members of a party are not
agreed on a single candidate, let us say, for governor, but
allow two or more to run for the office in its name, their party
is certain to be defeated by its opponents if the latter agree
on one man.
Nominating officers.--Thus it is necessary for each party,
where there are two active parties in opposition, to agree in
advance on one party candidate for each office. This agreement
is reached in one of two ways: (a) by holding a convention
of delegates in the county or state or nation as the case
may be - a convention composed of party members chosen
by the party voters in their several communities; or (b) by
the direct primary, that is, by an election held within the
party before the regular election, at which primary the party
members choose directly from among several candidates for
nomination (p. 124).
Making the party platform.--Another important task for
the party is the making of a fair and correct statement of
the principles for which it stands. This "platform" was
formerly made by the convention, but where the convention
is abolished a way is provided for having some representatives
of the party draw up a list of party principles, to constitute
the platform.
The high importance of the primary. - The primary elec-
tion to choose delegates to a nominating convention, or to
choose candidates for office directly, is therefore of utmost
importance to party members, particularly where there is
only one strong party in the field; because at the primary


                    
the citizen is given a voice in deciding what issues the party
shall stand for in the coming campaign and in choosing the
candidates of the party to carry out those promises in case
of victory. If the majority of the party members pay no
attention to the primaries and then vote for any one whom
the party managers nominate, a few persons who give their
time and attention to the primaries will actually "boss"
the party. A boss is a person who engages in politics all
of the time and looks after the primaries, and then bosses
the public officers who are elected by the party.
Managing the campaign.--After the candidates are chosen
and the platform is announced, the work of conducting the
campaign for election falls principally upon the committeemen.
They raise funds by securing contributions from the
candidates themselves, from devoted party members, and
principally from those who expect to derive some benefit
from the results of the election. The money so collected is
spent in a thousand ways: hiring halls for public speakers,
posting bills, distributing leaflets, employing "party workers,"
organizing clubs and parades, and all too frequently
in buying votes. The purpose of the party in the campaign
is to influence public opinion (p. 287) and secure enough
votes to win.
How the citizen may influence politics.--The plain citizen,
in order to have much weight in the conduct of the government,
--local, state, or national,-- must combine with
others whose views he shares more or less completely. That
is, he must join a political party when he has made up his
mind about the things which the government ought to do
or ought not to do. If any person finds that he cannot
agree with any of the parties, he may be an independent,
voting this way or that as he may be inclined. The independent
also has his place and is not without influence. He
may criticize the views of all the parties and all of the parties
must take into account the independent citizen who will

American Citizenship

not vote a party ticket just because his father did, but considers
each election on its merits.
Plans to secure an honest ballot and a fair count in elections.--At the primaries and the elections, the citizens
really decide what kind of government they are to have and
what public services it is to render them. But it is not a
simple thing to secure fair and just elections. Ignorant and
indifferent men sell their votes; men who have some selfish
motives in winning elections buy votes; "repeaters," as
they are called, slip in a vote more than once; corrupt men
stuff the ballot boxes by putting in more than one ballot
at a time ; persons who are not entitled to vote are frequently
allowed to vote; and sometimes there are drunkenness and
disorder at the polls, and the ballots are not honestly counted
at the close. There have been many disgraceful election
scenes, but we can truly say that we have made rapid progress
toward decent elections.
The registration of voters before elections.--Not long ago
all persons who thought they were entitled to vote (and
some who knew they were not) appeared at the elections, and
the question as to whether they were lawful voters was then
settled at the polls. To-day it is customary, particularly
in the great cities, to make up a list of lawful voters several
days before the election, by requiring all who intend to vote to
come before election officers and register their names as
prospective voters. This is known as "registration." On
election day no person can vote whose name does not appear
in the registration book which is brought to the polls and
there guarded by public officers. Furthermore, it is possible
to prevent any person not entitled to vote from voting on
election day, even though his name may appear in the registration
book. In the cities, detectives are often employed
to trace down the persons who register as residing at certain
places and claim the right to vote, to see whether their
claims are correct. By this method the names of thousands


                    
are struck from the books, who would otherwise have voted
because it would have been impossible to dispute their claims
in the few minutes at the election booth.
The secret ballot in primaries and elections.--In olden
times, elections were held in the open air or in a hall, and every
voter announced publicly the names of the candidates for


From an old print.
OPEN-AIR VOTING IN THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY

                    
whom he voted. Later every political party printed its own
list of candidates on a ballot, each party using a different
color, and the voter was given a ballot by the party managers
at the polls. Every one could see him put the ballot into the
box and tell from its color for what party he was voting. It
was possible for employers to force their workingmen to vote
certain tickets and see that they obeyed orders; the man who
bought votes could stand by the polls and see his victims
vote; and the political boss could intimidate men who would
otherwise have voted independently.



The principles of the "Australian ballot."--To-day all
this has been radically changed by the adoption of the Austra-
lian ballot which usually means in the United States the
following things:
(a) All ballots of all parties are printed at public expense
and they are given only to the voters, one by one, on election
day.
(b) Voting is secret;1 that is, the voter marks his ballot in
a closed compartment where no one can see for whom he votes.
(c) The names of all the candidates of all the parties are
put on the same ballot; the voter marks his ballot, folds
it so that the marking is not visible, and sees it placed unopened
in the ballot box.
Party column and Massachusetts ballots.--The arrangement
of the names on the ballot is an important matter.
In a majority of states the names of the candidates of each
party are placed in one column under a party emblem and the
voter may vote a "straight ticket," that is, for all the candidates
of a party, by making a single mark in a circle at the top
of the column. In order to encourage the voters to think more
about the merits of the several candidates than about their
party membership, Massachusetts adopted many years ago
the plan of arranging all of the candidates of all of the parties
in alphabetical order under the titles of the respective offices
for which they are running. In that way no one can vote a
straight ticket by making a single mark; the voter must
mark the name of each person for whom he votes. The
Massachusetts ballot, however, does not leave the party out
of account altogether, for after the name of each candidate
appears the name of the party to which he belongs (unless,
of course, he is running as an independent).
Nonpartisan ballots.--So great is the opposition to the
introduction of state and national politics into city elections
that many cities have what are known as "nonpartisan

1 Voting is secret even if a voting machine is used.


                    
                    

                    
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts
                    
List of Candidates nominated, to be voted for in the Town of Amherst, Nov. 8, 1910.
                    
                    SPECIMEN BALLOT.






ballots" (p. 135). Candidates for mayor, council, and
other city offices are thus nominated by petition alone; no
political party can make nominations. The names of the
candidates are arranged in order under the title of the respective
offices, and no party emblems or party designations
whatsoever appear on the ballot. The voter must mark
the name of every candidate for whom he votes, and he has
no party signs to guide him.
The maintenance of good order at election places.--The selection
of the polling places is important, because they should
be convenient to the voters, and in decent, orderly buildings
so that everything may go off quietly and respectably.
Enough polling places should be opened so that crowding is
not necessary and that each voter may have plenty of time to
mark his ballot. The polling place should be on the ground
floor and in full public view. It should not be in a dirty little
shop, and' particularly not in or near a saloon. Very recently,
especially since the growth of woman suffrage, has come a
demand for the use of the school buildings as election places,
and in fact they are so used in many cities now. Where this
is done there is a marked improvement in the tone of the
elections. Certainly there is no place too good or too sacred
to be used for such a noble purpose. The old notion that an
election is a time for drunkenness and brawls is now thoroughly
discredited, even in states where women do not vote, for a
decent man does not want to vote in a saloon or have his
life in peril while he casts his ballot.
How the parties watch each other at the polls.--In order to
secure fair play all around, it is customary to give to each
of the two parties, casting the highest vote in a preceding
election, representatives on the official election board that
presides over each polling place. In addition to this safeguard,
each party with candidates on the ballot is allowed a
certain number of " watchers and challengers " who are admitted
to the polling place and given the right to challenge



any person who, in their opinion, is not lawfully entitled to
vote, and also the right to watch the counting of the ballots
to see that each ballot is honestly recorded and the numbers
set down correctly in the official books. In the suffrage
states, women are frequently engaged as watchers and even
in non-suffrage states they have sometimes acted as watchers
with good effect upon the order and decent conduct of elections.
The importance of the hours for opening and closing the polls.
--It is important that the hours of voting shall be so fixed
as not to deprive those who go to work early in the morning
and work late in the evening of the right to vote. Often
when the hour of closing the polls is fixed at six o'clock, P.M.,
there is a great rush of workingmen, and many are prevented
from voting at all. One way to obviate this difficulty is to
require employers to allow their workmen sufficient time off
to go and vote, without making a cut in their wages for the
day.
The use of money in primaries and elections.--Among the
many problems of providing for fair elections is that raised
by the extensive use of money by the parties in their campaigns
and by candidates seeking nominations for office.
Campaigns cost money even if no votes are bought. Halls
must be hired, many speakers paid, large quantities of
printed matter issued, and traveling expenses met. A million
dollars is estimated as a small sum with which to carry on a
national campaign, and some investigations during recent
years have revealed the expenditure of enormous sums by
the leading parties. In 1912 one candidate for nomination
spent in his campaign over half a million dollars raised by
two or three friends. Under the direct primary no one can
hope to receive the nomination unless he spends a large sum
on" publicity," in presenting his claims to the voters. A poor
man can hardly expect to be nominated unless he can induce
some rich friends to pay his campaign expenses.



Sources of money for use in primaries and elections.--Investigations
have shown that the large contributions to party
funds for campaign purposes within recent years have come
from the following sources:
(1) Corporations and business interests desirous of securing
favors from the government when the party to which they
contribute gets into power.
(2) Saloons, gambling places, and other similar institutions
which seek to evade the laws against liquor selling,
gambling, and vice generally.
(3) Office holders who are compelled to contribute to a
party for fear of losing their positions after the election if they
do not. A number of instances have been unearthed of
office holders contributing to two parties so as to be sure
of having a friend in power.
(4) Contractors for roads, public buildings, parks, and
other public works, who expect to secure profitable contracts
on favorable terms from the victorious party.
(5) Candidates who must pay heavily for their nominations,
sometimes as high as twenty-five per cent of the
salaries of the offices they seek.
(6) Companies and corporations that want franchises
and charters from the government to build street railways
and operate public service concerns of one kind or another.
How money is spent in campaigns.--The money thus
raised is spent in three different ways. A vast amount goes
for the legitimate expenses of the campaigns. Not a little
is spent illegitimately buying votes, either in purchasing
them outright or in "treating" and other devious schemes.
Then a considerable portion is spent in "influencing public
opinion" in a questionable manner, paying large sums to
speakers who might be lukewarm or in the opposition, buying
space in newspapers without labeling it advertising, employing
detectives to hunt up scandals about opposing candidates,
paying persons to walk in monster parades and otherwise
"throwing dust" in the eyes of the voters.



Laws controlling use of money in elections.--The many
evils connected with the lavish use of money have brought
about legislation intended to control them. Such legislation
usually embraces the following principles:
(1) Prohibition of contributions by corporations. This was
adopted by the federal government in 1907 and has been
adopted by several states also.
(2) Limitation of the amount to be spent by candidates
to certain sums or a certain percentage of the salaries of
the offices for which they are candidates. Candidates for
the United States Senate may spend only $10,000 for their
primaries and elections; candidates for the House of Representatives
may spend $5000.
(3) Restriction of the uses to which money may be put in
elections.
(4) Punishment for bribery.
(5) Publicity of campaign funds; that is, requiring parties
and candidates to report their receipts and expenditures
during campaigns, for public record. This is required in
national elections and in a large majority of the states.
Publicity in primaries and elections : the Oregon plan.--In
order to offset the advantages which men of great wealth
have in the contests for office, Oregon has adopted a unique
scheme. It forbids candidates to spend more than a certain
amount to secure their nomination and election. It issues a
" publicity pamphlet " for the primaries and the elections.
For the primary, the government prepares a pamphlet for
each party; the members of each party running for the
several offices are given a certain number of pages in this
pamphlet at a small cost; and then the pamphlet is sent at
public expense to the party voters throughout the state,
county, or city, as the case may be. At elections, the state
issues a publicity pamphlet in which all parties are given a
certain space at a small cost to set forth their claims upon
the voters for support. This document is then sent to all



the voters at public expense. Thus the poor and the rich,
the small party and the large party, stand all on the same,
footing as far as the official publicity arrangements go. Of
course this does not counterbalance the influence of powerful
newspapers, but it at least enables all to have some hearing
before the public.
                    


                    
Questions
                    
 What were the first political parties we had?
 What gave rise to the Whig party? The Republican party?
The Populists? The Socialists? The Progressives?
 How is a party organized?
 What is a platform?
 What is meant by political issues?
 What is the importance of the primary?
 How may the citizen influence politics?
 What was the value of the introduction of the Australian
ballot ?
 What is the Massachusetts ballot ?
 What means are now taken to secure an honest ballot?
 What part does money play in election returns ?


                    
                    

                    
Additional Reading
                    
STATE AND LOCAL POLITICS: Beard, American Government, pp.
656-705; Readings, pp. 567-589; Bryce, American Commonwealth, Vol. I, pp. 571-583.
NATIONAL AND LOCAL POLITICS: Kaye, Readings in Civil Government, pp. 369-372.
THE PARTY SYSTEM OF GOVERNMENT: Bryce, Vol. II, pp. 3-246;
Jones,Readings on Parties and Elections, pp. 1-20.
THE DEVELOPMENT OF PARTY ORGANIZATION IN THE UNITED
STATES: Jones, pp. 28-46.
THE VALUE OF POLITICAL ORGANIZATION: Ward, The Social
Center, pp. 69-95.
PARTY ORGANIZATION IN DETAIL: Jones, pp. 169-205.
THE BALLOT AND ITS FORMS: Jones, pp. 212-244.
PARTY PROBLEMS AND REMEDIES:  Jones, pp. 251-330.
OPERATIONS OF A MUNICIPAL BOSS: Beard, Readings, pp. 566-572.


                    

                    
                  

                    

                    
 CHAPTER XIII

REPRESENTATIVE GOVERNMENT AND DEMOCRACY
                                        

                    
 Changing democracy.
 Democracy and representative government.
                    

                                        
 The idea of a "representative republic."
 Why representative government was established in the
United States.
 The use of the term "democracy" to-day.
                                        

                    

 Growth of direct democracy.
                    

                    
 Direct government is being applied in our state affairs.
 Why direct government has grown in favor.
 Where direct government is popular.
                                        

                    
                   
 The initiative.
 The referendum.
 The recall.
                    

                                        
 The recall of judicial decisions.
                    

                    

 The direct primary.
 The short ballot.
                    

                                        
 How little the voter knows about the men for whom he
votes.
                    

                    

 Various views as to direct democracy.
                    
                    
                                        
 Two ways of viewing direct government.
 Two kinds of opponents of direct government.
 Democracy a matter of indefinite growth.
                                        

                    





                                        
                                        
Changing democracy.--We have thus far spoken of the
machinery of our government as if it were very definitely
fixed and not likely to change. We should give a false
notion of the politics of our time, however, if we should take
no account of some important alterations in the present
methods of making and enforcing laws by elected agents,
which are now being made, particularly in the Western states.



The most significant of all these changes is the growth of the
idea of "direct democracy" as opposed to "representative
democracy." It is therefore necessary for us to examine in
detail just what this change implies.
Democracy and representative government.--There probably
never was a general idea about which more confusion has
existed than about the idea of democracy. The word in its
Greek origin meant a government by the people; but how
many people should be given a share in the government and
just how they should govern in order to constitute a democracy
is a matter which has never been clearly settled. It
is customary for those who are given the vote to assume that
they are " the people " and that their government is that
of a democracy. It is commonly assumed, too, that the framers
of the American government thought that they were establishing
a democracy and that a representative government
chosen by voters was itself a democracy. But this assumption
is not correct. At the time of the American Revolution
and the formation of the Constitution, the word "democracy"
was in disfavor in the United States as well as in
Europe. Indeed, it was commonly associated with the
words anarchy and atheism in the minds of leading people.
The idea of a "representative republic."--The founders
of our government intended to set up a "representative"
republic. To Madison a democracy meant a "society consisting of a number of persons who assemble and administer
the government in person," a government modeled on that
of a New England town meeting (p. 142). On the other
hand, a representative republic meant to him a government
by representatives or agents chosen by those voters who
possessed the necessary property qualifications (p. 66).
In a democracy, as it was defined, the voters themselves
determine what the government shall do and how it shall
be done by voting on laws as well as for officers. In a representative
republic, on the contrary, the voters do not


                    
decide on laws or measures, but they choose their agents
or representatives, who determine what is good for the people.
If the voters do not like what their agents do, they may
elect new agents at the expiration of the terms of the old
ones; but the new agents are to interpret what the people
need - the people are not to decide for themselves, by voting,
just what kind of laws they want.
Why "representative" government was established in the
United States.--To the founders of our government, this
idea of agency or representation was even more important
than the suffrage itself. They foresaw that in time the
suffrage might probably be extended to all adult males (the
idea of suffrage for women was entirely foreign to their
thoughts); but they thought that, if the proper kind of
representative government could be maintained, no great harm
might result. So they put into their scheme of representative
government the system of checks and balances which
we have described before (p. 184). The members of the
House of Representatives were to be elected by the voters
at large; the Senators by the state legislatures ; the President
by a specially chosen body of presidential electors; and the
judiciary by the President and Senate. This was to prevent
the masses from having too much direct power or making
laws too hastily.
The use of the term "democracy" to-day.--We no longer
use the word "democracy" as the founders of our government
used it, as meaning a government in which the people not
only elect officers but make laws by voting. When we speak
of democracy in this sense now, we add the adjective
"direct"--meaning government by the voters directly
rather than by agents chosen for the purpose of discovering
and enforcing the voters' will.
Growth of direct democracy.--There has been a tendency
in our government to allow more people to vote and to allow
them to decide upon laws and constitutions by the ballot as well




as to choose officers and representatives directly. The
federal government has been made more "direct": (a) by
the practice of making the presidential electors mere ciphers
in the presidential election (p. 107); and (b) by the recent
amendment providing for the election of United States Senators
by popular vote instead of indirectly by the state
legislatures (p. 101).
Direct government is being applied in our state affairs.--It
is in the states that our governments have been made
more democratic, in the sense of having a wider suffrage
(p. 69) and more direct, in the sense of vesting in the voters
the right to say whether or not they will have this law or that
constitution for themselves. Some of our states are democracies
in almost the exact sense that the term was used by
the founders of our system of government; that is, voters
not only choose officers, but decide upon laws at the polls.
It is true that they do not all meet at one place to do this,
and this is an important distinction. If they all met--tens
of thousands at the state capital - we should have direct
democracy in the old sense, and probably all of the riots and
disorders which were originally associated with the notion;
but they do not so meet. They decide things individually,
after discussion, by voting "yes" or "no" on laws in the
polling booths at elections.
Why direct government has grown in favor.--This increase
in the power of the voters has been due to two main causes:
(a) dissatisfaction with the way that the representatives
actually conducted the government; and (b) the growth
of a political interest among the voters which makes them
want to take more part in government. Dissatisfaction
with representative government began to appear early;
representatives often would not make the laws for which there
was a large popular demand; and they were frequently
corrupt, and made laws for the benefit of private persons and
corporations by granting them concessions and privileges



of all kinds. Owing to the spread of education and the
development of cheap newspapers and books, large numbers of
voters now think that they can decide many matters better
than their agents can.
Where direct government is popular.--The principle of
direct government has been adopted in about one-third of
the states, including South Dakota, Oregon, Washington,
California, Oklahoma, Maine, Arizona, Ohio, and Colorado.
The demand for similar reforms is so strong in other states
that it is desirable to explain the system in great detail
and to examine with some care the ideas upon which it is
based.
The initiative.--The initiative is a device whereby any
person or group of persons may draft a proposal for a law and,
on securing the signatures of a certain number of voters, have
it submitted to the voters at large for their approval or disapproval.
Thus it is possible for the voters to make laws
without using the legislature at all. Suppose, for example,
that some of us thought there ought to be a law granting pensions
to poor widows with' children and we could not persuade
the legislature to pass it. Under the "direct" government
system we could draw up the law ourselves, go around and
get a certain number, say 5 per cent, of the voters to sign a
petition asking for the submission of the law to the voters;
if we got the required number of signers, the secretary of
state would have to print a ballot for the next election,
asking the voters whether they approve the law, "Yes or
No." If a majority of those voting said "yes," our plan
would become law.
One of the big problems in connection with this system is:
"How many voters should be required to sign the petition
in order to have the law submitted?" If too many are required,
the difficulty of getting the signers makes it impossible
to work the system. If only a few signers are necessary,
then many proposals that the people do not want at all would



have to be voted on at every election--a great expense and
a nuisance besides.                                     
The referendum.--The word "referendum" is from the
Latin word referre, meaning "to carry back." As applied
in politics, it means a system whereby the laws made by a
legislature may be carried back to the voters for their approval
before going into effect. Where it is used a small
percentage of the voters who do not like a law or an appropriation
of money passed by the legislature may get up a
petition against it, and, on securing enough signers, may
compel the secretary of state to place the law before the
voters at the next election; if they approve, it becomes
law; if a majority do not want it, it perishes. This idea was
adopted in one form in our states before the initiative,
through the practice of submitting state constitutions and
amendments to state constitutions to the voters for their
approval before allowing them to go into effect.
The recall.--The recall is based on the idea that an
officer is a mere agent and can be turned out at any time the
voters do not like his deeds. The old idea was that the
officer was elected for a term of years and was expected to do
his best according to his own notions. The recall provides
that whenever a certain number of voters are dissatisfied
with the conduct of a mayor or a governor or any elective
officer, they can get up a petition against him, compel a new
election, and turn him out of office if a majority of votes are
cast against him. In a way, this puts the execution of the
law directly into the hands of the voters.
The recall of judicial decisions.--A development of this
idea is the "recall of judicial decisions," which is a plan
whereby a certain percentage of voters who do not like the
action of a judge in declaring a law unconstitutional (p. 90)
may join in a petition and have submitted to the voters
this question: " Shall the law which Judge X declared void
continue to be a law in spite of his decision?"  If a majority



vote "yes," the law stands; otherwise the decision of the
judge stands. This plan is not yet in force, except in Colorado.                                       
The direct primary.--Another part of the plan for direct
government is the direct primary, which we have already
mentioned in connection with the selection of officers (page
148). The convention system, which it abolished, was
based on the idea that the voters could wisely select delegates
to a party council and that those delegates would carefully
and honestly select the best members of the party to be the
party candidates for office. The direct primary, on the
other hand, is based on the idea that the voters can decide
best for themselves what persons they want to stand as their
party candidates.
The short ballot.--So many officers are elected now that
the voter often has to choose from among three or four
hundred candidates for forty or fifty different positions;
and so it happens that the bewildered person does not know
much about any of the men for whom he votes. A ballot
fourteen feet long was recently used, for example, in a New
York election. The advocates of the short ballot say: "Let
us reduce the number of officers chosen at any one election
to three or four, so that the voters will have a chance to look
the candidates over carefully and select good men." Many
who do not believe in direct government believe in the short
ballot, saying, " If the voters could give more attention to
electing a few good men, there would not be so many corrupt
officers and representatives chosen, and therefore no need for
the initiative, referendum, and recall."
How little the voter knows about the men for whom he votes.--
The fact is that with so many officers to choose the voter
simply cannot know much about any of them. How this
works out is shown by the answers to some questions put
to the voters of a Brooklyn district composed of intelligent
and independent citizens. The following table giving the



answers shows how few of the voters knew even the names of
the officers chosen in an election held a short time before the
questions were asked:--


                    
Do you know the name of the new state treasurer just elected?
Yes: 13 per cent.
Do you know the name of the present state treasurer?
Yes: 25 per cent.
Do you know the name of the new state assemblyman for this
district?
Yes: 30 per cent.
Do you know the name of the defeated candidate for assemblyman
in this district?
Yes: 20 per cent. (Knew both of them: 16 per cent.)
Do you know the name of the surrogate of this county?
Yes: 35 per cent.
Do you know the name of your alderman?
Yes: 15 per cent.
Do you know whether your alderman was one of those who
voted against the increase in the police force last year?
Yes: 2 per cent.
                    

                    

Various views as to direct government.--The initiative
and referendum are schemes for allowing the voters to make
laws directly without using the legislature or asking its advice
at all and to veto laws. The old idea was that the voters
could not themselves know enough about government to
decide policies, but that all they could do was to select representatives
who should give their attention especially to
government, relieving the voters of the task of bothering
about anything except occasional elections of agents. Direct
government, however, presupposes that the voters have made
up their minds or can make up their minds on all matters,
and that the officers whom they choose are merely agents
to carry out their will. The system has an educational advantage
through the publicity given to every proposal.
Leaflets, large and small, giving both sides to every controversy,
are widely distributed among the men and women of
Oregon, where this system prevails.



Two ways of viewing direct government.--This movement
for " direct government " may be viewed in two ways.
(a) Some say the initiative and referendum do not take the
place of representative government at all; they are simply
aids, to keep the government "truly representative." The
initiative will not be used often--only in flagrant cases where
the legislature refuses to listen to the just demands of the
people; the referendum will be used only occasionally when
the legislature has passed a grossly unjust and clearly unwise
law. This is probably the view of the greater portion of
those who advocate such reforms. (b) Other advocates of
direct government look upon the initiative and referendum
as practical substitutes for the legislature, and expect in time
to see all important laws made directly by the voters. They
believe that it is always better to have the direct judgment
of the voters rather than that of a legislature. They
look forward to a time when all voters will be intelligent and
interested in measures instead of in politicians, and will
seek the knowledge necessary to decide every important
matter at the polls.
Two kinds of opponents to direct government.--Opponents
of the system of direct government, likewise, fall into two
groups: (a) those who are afraid of the people and want them
to have as little voice in the government as possible; and
(b) those who believe that the voters simply cannot give
the time and attention to governmental matters which is
necessary to a wise decision of very complicated questions
about laws. The latter believe in popular rule, the right of
the voters to elect whomsoever they please, to turn them out
at elections, and to have enacted into law anything on which
they have definitely made up their minds. The latter say:
"We accept the will of the voters as law, but we want to be
sure that the whole matter has been carefully thought out
and discussed before action is taken; we do not want to put
our lives, our liberty, and our property at the mercy of a


                                        
mere chance majority at the polls at any one election." That
is really the issue: "Should a mere majority of those who
take the trouble to go to the polls be allowed to make any
law on anything they please, even forbidding freedom of
speech and religious liberty?"
Democracy a matter of indefinite growth.--From what we
have said in this chapter, it is clear that the terms "democracy"
and "government of the people" may mean much
or nothing, and that repeating them without explaining what
we mean by them is useless. How many and what persons
ought to be allowed to vote in order to constitute a
democracy? What should the voters be allowed to do in
order to have a "government of the people"? These are
questions which are never finally settled, but are in fact problems
which all of us are compelled to face as citizens and to
pass upon from time to time. Democracy did not begin,
therefore, with the Declaration of Independence, and the
last word will never be said on the subject as long as new
thoughts arise in the human brain and new needs are felt by
the people.
                                        
                                        

                    
                    Questions
                    
 What is the difference between representative government
and direct democracy?
 Which did the American Fathers regard as the wiser form
of government, and why?
 How has the federal government been made more democratic
in the sense of yielding to popular control?
 Where do we have direct democracy now and why was it
adopted?
 What are the initiative, referendum, recall, and short ballot?
 What is the direct primary; the recall of judicial decisions?
 What arguments do opponents of direct government use?
 What are the two ways of viewing direct government as a
benefit to society?
 In what way does direct government conflict with the idea
of the separation of functions in the government?




                                        

                    
                    Additional Reading
                    
POPULAR CONTROL IN STATE GOVERNMENTS: Beard, Readings,
pp. 411-431; McCarthy, The Wisconsin Idea, pp. 88-123.
FAULTS AND STRENGTH OF AMERICAN DEMOCRACY: Bryce, American
Commonwealth, Vol. II, pp. 630-654.
THE SHORT BALLOT: Beard, American Government, pp. 474-487;
Jones, Readings on Parties and Elections, pp. 225-232.
THE VARIATIONS IN THE INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM: Beard,
461-471.
DIRECT LEGISLATION AND THE RECALL: Jones, pp. 335-352.


                                        
                  


                    

                                        

                    

                    

                                        
PART III
                                        
THE WORK OF GOVERNMENT



                                        
                                        

                                        

                                                            
CHAPTER XIV
                                                            
THE SERVICES RENDERED BY THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT
                    

                                                            
                                                            
 The government as a cooperative concern.
 The division of the work of government among many
officers.
 Division of work between the federal and state
governments.


                    
 How industries are national in character.
 Why the states find it difficult to regulate industries.
 National laws versus uniform laws.
 Many new and important things may be done without changing the Constitution.
 The federal government is in fact very close to the
people.
                    

                    

                    
 In what ways the consumer is helpless.
 What interstate commerce is.
 Federal regulation of railway rates.
 Federal pure food laws.
                    

                                        
 Federal food inspection and study.
 The importance of watching our food supplies
carefully.
 Should the consumer be protected against other
schemes for cheating?
                                        

                    

 The theory of a protective tariff.
                    

                                        
 The present defense of protection.
 The tariff and foreign labor.
 The free trade theory.
                                        

                    

 The practical tariff question.
                    

                                        
 The tariff is always a compromise.
                    

                    

 The tariff commission.
 Reciprocity.
 Searching for foreign trade.



 The trust question.
                    

                                        
 The old theory of competition.
 How big combinations and trusts grew up.
 The unfair methods of trusts.
 The federal law against trusts - the Sherman Act
of 1890.
                    

                    

                    
 Present theories about what to do with the trusts.
                    

                                        
 The advocates of a radical breaking up of the trusts.
 Regulation of the trusts.
 The socialist theory about the trusts.
 Theory of "natural monopoly."
                    

                    

 The public land grants to farmers.
 The policy of the government in granting lands to
farmers.
 Irrigation works.
. Agricultural colleges.
 The Department of Agriculture.
 The power of Congress over labor matters.
 Federal laws about labor.
 The Department of Labor.
 Competition with foreign labor.
 Immigration.
 Labor employed by the government.
 The post office.
                    

                                        
 The services rendered by the post office.
                    

                    

                    
 Natural resources.
                    

                                        
 Proposals for dealing with our natural resources.
 Surveying the national domains.
                    

                    

 River and harbor improvements.
                    

                                        
 The waste of public funds in such schemes.
                                        

                    

 The Panama Canal.
 Building national highways.
 Health not altogether a local concern.
 Inspection of immigrants.
 The public health service.
                    

                                        
 The reorganization of federal health work in 1912.
                                        

                    

 National defense.
                    

                                        
 The standing army.
 The militia.
 The reserve militia.
 The navy.
 Rapid increase in naval expenditure.


                    
 The command of the army and navy.
 Pensions for soldiers.
 The cost of wars.
 War against war.
 Arbitration Treaties.
                                        

                    
                    
 Importance of the President's power in international
affairs.


                    
 How the President negotiates with other countries.
                    

                    

 Gold and silver coinage.
                    

                                        
 The ratio between gold and silver in coins.
 The history of the ratio down to 1873.
 The free silver question.
 Paper money.
 National bank notes.
 The problem of national banking.
 The new banking law of December, 1913.
                    

                    

 The power of Congress to tax.
 The chief sources of federal revenue.
 Making the budget.
                    
                    
                                        
 Balancing the books.
                                        

                    

 The power of the federal government over territories.
                    
                    
                                        
 The District of Columbia.
 The territories.
                                        

                    



                    
                    

The government a cooperative concern.--Mention has
been made of the human needs which the government is
designed to meet, and of the way in which the persons who compose
the government are chosen and put to work. There is
another most important phase of civics; namely, just what
the government does to make this a safer, wiser, and happier
country. In other words, how can the government help the
individual in his struggle to make a living safely and with
the least waste, to improve his mind, and to secure himself
against misfortunes over which he has no control? This
does not mean that we are asking the government to do
for us what we should do for ourselves, but it does mean
that to-day there are many things which we as individuals
cannot do without joining with our fellow citizens--without



out cooperating and using some branch of the government.
For example, no one wants to be poisoned by adulterated
foods, but every one has not the time to go around and
inspect the hundreds of factories in which food is prepared;
therefore, a joint agent, a government officer, is employed
to do the work for all of us.
The division of the work of government among many
officers.--The officers who perform all kinds of public services
for us are federal, state, city, and rural officers. The
work of government is so divided that it is not always a
simple matter to know which of these officers is responsible
for any given undertaking. Sometimes we see city, state,
and federal health officers cooperating to fight disease, and
sometimes we find federal and state officers disagreeing about
their respective powers over an important matter. This division
of public work between the national and state governments
has been, and still is, one of the most troublesome
problems of our country.
Division of work between the federal and state governments.--
Some people think that they can solve it by saying
in a light manner, "Oh, let the state do the things which
belong to the state and the federal government the things
which belong to it;" but that only begs the real question,
"What things actually do belong to each?" This problem
has been discussed for a hundred years, but it has not been
solved, and in fact it never can be solved, because the business,
industry, and commerce of the country change from
generation to generation, so that it is necessary to be always
redividing the work. For instance, a long time ago when
the factories and workshops were small and the products
turned out at each one were sold principally in the neighborhood
or within the state in which they were manufactured, it
was clearly a state matter to decide about the sanitary conditions
of the buildings and the hours and work of persons employed
in them, if sanitation was a governmental matter at all.



How industries are national in character.--We see how all
of that has altered. There are no industries of any consequence
to-day which sell all their products in the neighborhood.
Chicago and Kansas City pack and ship meats for
millions of people all over the country. Most of the cloth
that is manufactured in the United States is made in New
England and a few Southern states. The iron industry is
largely confined to a few commonwealths like Pennsylvania,
Alabama, and Michigan. Each of the great railway companies
operates in a score of states. Most of our clothing is
made in centers like New York and Chicago. Can we truly
say any longer: "It is no concern of ours how other states
regulate their industries or attempt to prevent adulteration
and other evil practices? " Even if we are so selfish that we
do not care whether our clothes are made and our food
packed by people who are paid starvation wages, we may
be interested enough to look out for ourselves, and protect
ourselves against shoddy and poison.
Why the states find it difficult to regulate industries.--Then
we must look at the matter from the point of view of those
who are trying to prevent poverty and ill health by providing
schemes to increase wages, shorten hours of labor,
compel employers to pay compensation to injured workmen,
and provide for the aged poor. If a state says to an employer,
"You must not pay less than a certain wage to your women
employees," he may very justly reply, "See here; I sell
goods all over the United States, and I must put my prices
low enough to meet the prices fixed by manufacturers in other
states where wages are much lower and where no attempt is
made to settle them by law. If you compel me to pay this
fixed wage, you will take away all of the profit in my business,
and I must either shut up my mill or move to another state
where wages are lower."
National laws versus uniform laws.--How are we to
meet such problems? The person who believes in "new



nationalism" holds that every concern which is truly national
in. character--which affects immediately and in an
important way the people of many states--should be under
the control of the national government. The champion of
states' rights, on his part, contends that the best way is to
encourage all of the states to make the same laws on the same
subject--uniform legislation - even if the result is reached
more slowly. This thing cannot be settled in a book; it
must be fought out in the arena of practical politics, and
every thoughtful person who takes an interest in government
will have to give serious attention to it. He will always face
the question: " Shall the powers of the federal government
be increased by adding to the powers already enumerated
in the federal Constitution?"
Many new and important things may be done without
changing the Constitution.--It is not necessary, however,
to amend the Constitution in order to do many helpful
things to fight the foes of mankind,--disease, poverty, and
crime. By a "liberal construction" of the Constitution,
that is, by interpreting in a very free and easy way the powers
already conferred upon Congress, it is possible to do many
things the Constitution does not say anything about. For
example, the Constitution does not mention railways, and they
were not dreamed of when it was made, but it does say that
Congress may regulate "interstate commerce," and on this
warrant Congress has provided a system for fixing passenger
and freight rates, and otherwise controlling railways engaged
in business in more than one state (p. 180). Another good
example--the use of the power to tax in such a way as
to improve labor conditions--is furnished by the story of
the match industry. The yellow phosphorus used to make
the old-fashioned match was highly poisonous, and those
working in the industry often suffered from having their
teeth fall out or their jawbones decay, and many died of
the poison. Matches could be made a little more expensively



from other materials, and in 1912 Congress put such a high
tax on the yellow phosphorus match as to destroy the business
altogether. Surely this was "stretching the Constitution,"
to use the taxing power not to raise money, but to prevent
working people from being poisoned.
The federal government is in fact very close to the people.--
Through these and similar measures the federal government
is brought a great deal nearer to the people than it used to be.
It not only guards us by a fleet and an army which most of
us never see, but it now stands guard over much of the food
we buy. It forbids the manufacture of certain poisonous
and adulterated foods and the packing of diseased meats for
interstate trade, and it has an army of civil employees studying
foodstuffs and inspecting factories, packing houses, and
shipments. It sends its postmen into the backward rural
districts as well as along the streets of the city to deliver mail.
When we send a piece of freight to another state or travel
there on a railway, we pay charges which may be fixed by
the Interstate Commerce Commission--a branch of the
federal government. If a workman is injured on a railway
which does business in more than one state, he may receive
compensation under a law passed by the federal government.
The prices of sugar, wool clothing, gloves, and a
thousand other commodities depend in part upon the tax laid
upon them by the federal government when they come into
the United States from foreign countries.
                    

                    
WHAT THE GOVERNMENT DOES FOR THE CONSUMER

In what ways the consumer is helpless.--It is only within
recent years that we have come to look to the federal government
to protect us against exorbitant railway charges and
against poisonous and adulterated foods and drugs. The
old theory of political economy was: " Let the purchaser
beware. Any person is entitled to sell what he has to sell



at any price he can get, and if a purchaser is overcharged or
buys adulterated drugs or foodstuffs, it is his own fault."
This theory suited railway companies and manufacturers;
but in time the consumers began to wonder whether it was
altogether sound. They began to see how helpless the individual
shipper or passenger was in the face of powerful
railway companies, and how impossible it was for the consumer
to be an expert chemist and health officer in judging
of all the food supplies which came to his table.
What is "interstate commerce"?--Of course, Congress
has no power to go into a state and say to a manufacturer
or a butcher who sells only to his next-door neighbor, "You
must not do this or that." Congress can control only interstate
commerce; that is, only traffic, intercourse, travel, and
trade carried on from a point in one state to a point in another.
Congress, for example, cannot fix the railway rates from Chicago,
Illinois, to Springfield, Illinois; but it can fix the rates
from Chicago, Illinois, to Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Again, if
three or four business concerns unite to monopolize all of
the trade within a single state, Congress cannot order them to
disband; but if a number of men in two or more states join
in an attempt to control business and apportion the trade
in these states among themselves, Congress can prevent it.
If a manufacturer ships products into other states, Congress
can forbid him to adulterate or otherwise misrepresent his
goods.
Federal regulation of railway rates.--It was not until
railway building had been going on for nearly half a century
that Congress began to interfere with rates for the benefit
of shippers and consumers. In 1887 Congress passed the
first interstate commerce act regulating railways ; and this law
has been added to, until to-day all the business of interstate
railways is under the control of federal laws enforced by the
Interstate Commerce Commission, a board of seven members
appointed by the President and Senate. This law requires



railways to fix "reasonable" rates for freight and passengers
and forbids them to charge different rates for the same
services, thus helping favorite business concerns to undersell
their rivals. The Commission has the power, on complaint
of some interested person or group, to inquire whether
any particular rate is reasonable, and on finding it unfair,
to order the railway company to make a fair rate. In 1913
Congress passed a law arranging for the physical valuation
of railways--that is, for finding out what they actually cost
to construct and operate--with a view to fixing fair rates.
The government cannot very well fix a just rate unless it knows
what it really costs the railway to do its work. Although
we have spoken of the regulation of railway rates as being in
the interest of the consumer, it must be admitted that it was
the manufacturers and shippers seeking lower freight rates
who were principally responsible for the government's undertaking
this work. But of course the consumer may benefit
by lower rates on the goods which he buys.
Federal pure food laws.--The most important law
designed particularly for consumers is the pure food and
drug act (applicable to interstate trade) passed in 1906.
This law forbids the sale of drugs that are not what they are
represented to be or that differ from certain standards recognized
in science. The sale of adulterated food is forbidden,
and any food is held to be adulterated if its quality has been
lowered by mixing other stuff with it, if any valuable part
has been removed, if it is so stained, colored, or coated as
to cover up damages, if it contains poisonous and injurious
substances, or if it is unfit for use. The chief of the bureau
of chemistry at Washington is principally responsible for
enforcing the law. Officers under him inspect manufactures
all over the country, and carloads of adulterated goods have
been  destroyed.    Many patent medicine concerns have
been driven out of business by the simple rule that they must
tell on the label of the bottle exactly what is inside.



Federal food inspection and study.--The government inspectors
may condemn meats, or may put the seal of ap-
proval on them by marking them "U. S. inspected and
passed." Canning and preserving rooms are visited, and the
contents of bottles, cans, jars, and boxes examined by expert
chemists who are always searching for some injurious and
dangerous chemical used to color or preserve. In order to
educate the public to discriminate in its purchases, bulletins
are issued by the government showing the relative food
values of different articles as determined by chemical analysis
and experiments on animals and men. When Dr. H. W.
Wiley was chief of the bureau of chemistry, he had a "poison
squad"; that is, a group of men who tested the effects of
certain foods by actually consuming large quantities and
studying the results on their own systems.
The importance of watching our food supplies carefully.--
How important this investigation really is becomes apparent
when we realize that cheap bakery products "are in large
part made up of spoiled eggs shipped in carload lots and
deodorized by formaldehyde. Pie fillings, which are indescribably
nauseous, are sold in wholesale lots to restaurants
and bakeries. Tarts, jams, and ice creams are made of
fictitious foods." To show how it is possible to use chemicals
in foods, a laboratory recently prepared a meal "without
a particle of real food in it--a feast that had all the appearance
of wholesome dishes, but was entirely substanceless."
Should the consumer be protected against other schemes for
cheating?--At the present time, the government does not
make any attempt to interfere with the manufacture of
clothing and other commodities not:used for food ; but several
attempts have been made in Congress to secure a law requiring
linen, silk, wool, and cotton stuffs to be accurately labeled
to prevent shoddy and cheap mixtures. It was argued
that the purchaser of such commodities was frequently
unable to tell the difference between pure wool and mixed



cloth, and that it was as necessary to protect the consumer
against adulterated cloth and paper-soled shoes as against
varnished chocolates. No action has yet been taken, but
there are many who believe that positive standards in manufactures
should be established by the government to protect
the consumer against all kinds of misrepresentation.
                    

                    

                    
WHAT THE GOVERNMENT DOES FOR THE MANUFACTURER

The theory of a protective tariff.--One of the very first
things that the federal government did after it was established
in 1789 was to aid American manufacturers by putting
a tariff upon European goods which competed with their
own products. Advocates of protection in those days declared
that the United States was a new country with very
few industries and not much money to invest and that our
business men needed protection against the old and well
established concerns of Europe in order to get a start. That
was the "infant industry" argument: "Give our small
and young industries protection against the big manufactories
of Europe until they are established and thus make the
United States industrially as well as politically independent
of the Old World." Many who advocated a protective tariff
in those days looked upon it as a temporary thing, to be
thrown aside as soon as our industries had developed, and
were ready to meet foreign competitors on an equal basis.
The present defense of protection.--For a long time, the
"infant industry" argument was kept prominently before
the public, but of later years little has been heard of it, for
the reason that our industries in most fields have grown
into giants. More recently the policy of protection has been
defended on the ground that American employers would be
compelled to reduce the wages of their workingmen if they
had to cut their prices to meet those of European manufacturers
who do not have to pay as much to get their work



done. From this point of view, protection is not looked upon
as a benefit to employers particularly, but as a safeguard for
American workingmen against "the pauper labor of Europe."
Certainly this is the argument most frequently used in
appealing to the working classes to support at the polls the
policy of protection.
The tariff and foreign labor.--As a matter of fact, however,
the tariff must be viewed principally as an aid to manufacturers,
and only incidentally to American workingmen.
The latter:cannot be said to enjoy much protection from the
"cheap laborers of Europe," while such laborers can have
a free entrance into the United States and can come over and
go back home for a few dollars. Indeed, the "native American
workingman" is now about pushed out of the great
protected industries by foreigners who crowd to this country
by the hundreds of thousands every year.
The free trade theory.--There has been all along much opposition
to protection. Free traders who want no protective
tariff at all oppose it on principle. They say that goods
will be produced at the place where they can be manufactured
cheapest, if the government does not interfere by a tariff.
Countries with great mines of coal and iron will naturally
produce steel and iron products; tropical countries will
produce cotton and raw materials on account of their soil
and climate; the great western prairies will grow corn and
wheat because their climate and soil are suited to that
purpose; and so on throughout the whole range of agriculture
and manufacturing. On this theory, every country or
every region will "naturally" settle down to the industries
and occupations for which it has the climate, soil, resources,
and skill, and will exchange its commodities with other countries
or regions for the things it cannot produce readily and
cheaply. "You could grow bananas in hothouses in Maine
if you would put a high tariff on bananas from the tropics,"
says the free trader, "but the consumer would have to pay


                    
five times as much for them and the workingmen employed
in the hothouses had better be at some other work for
which the climate and soil of Maine are well suited."1
The practical tariff question.--This is of course an exaggeration,
and even the protectionist disclaims any intention
of doing such an absurd thing. To such a contention he
replies: " There are very few of the great industries--
iron and steel, boot and shoe, cotton and woolen--which
cannot be carried on reasonably well in any of the nations
of the northern hemisphere, and it is only those industries
for which we are obviously well equipped by resources,
climate, and labor, that we desire to protect." In fact, there
are very few extreme free traders who would abolish all
protection for American industries, and there are no advocates
of protection who would carry their plans to the
absurd length of protecting the banana industry in Maine.
The whole matter then resolves itself into a very practical
question: "Since we must raise some revenues by putting
taxes on goods coming in from foreign countries, and since
we ought to help American industries where they really
need protection against cheap labor in Europe, on what
commodities shall we impose duties, and how high shall the
duties be?"
The tariff is always a compromise.--This is where the tug
of war comes in politics. Farmers are willing to have the
tariff taken off of agricultural implements, but they are
very vigorous in their demand for protection against Canadian
farm products. Mill owners are willing to see
the tariff removed from Canadian food products, but they
prophesy ruin if it is reduced on their manufactures. Louisiana
is anxious to have a high duty on sugar because she
produces cane sugar, but she is not unwilling to cut the duty
on boots and shoes, made principally in New England. It is


1Free traders also oppose customs duties because they are taxes on 
consumers and have no relation to ability to pay.




because the manufacturers and farmers of each section of
the country demand protection for their particular indus-
tries that it is impossible to base a tariff upon any theory
of what ought to be done. The tariff is a compromise in
which each section gets what it can by bargaining with the
other sections.
The tariff commission.--An attempt was made recently,
however, to put the tariff on a more reasonable basis by
having a commission investigate the cost of producing commodities
in Europe and the United States with a view to
laying just enough duty on each commodity to place our manufacturers
on an even footing with European competitors.
The advocates of this method of fixing tariff duties say, for
example : "Take a three-dollar pair of shoes. If the actual
cost of labor and raw materials in them is 10 per cent higher
in the United States than in Europe, then the American
manufacturer should be protected to just that extent and
no more." There are difficulties, it must be admitted, in
the way of finding out the exact cost of manufacture in all
countries, and it seems as if we should go on indefinitely making
our tariffs on the compromise basis of each section of
the country getting what it can.
Reciprocity.--The tariff may be used to develop our trade
with foreign countries as well as to protect our own industries.
That aspect of the matter was emphasized by one
of the most eminent of all our advocates of protection,
President McKinley, shortly before his death. He seemed
inclined to hold that when protection had put our industries
into such a shape that they could meet foreign competition,
one of its chief uses would be to force open more markets
abroad. The champion of reciprocity puts his doctrine in
the form of an address to a foreign country: "You now have
a high tariff on certain of our American goods, and we have
a high tariff on some of yours. If you will lower your rates
in our favor and thus increase our business with you, we will



reduce our rates on your goods and give you a better chance
in our markets."
Searching for foreign trade.--There are other ways in
which the federal government seeks to help our manufacturers
secure foreign business. It maintains in all the important
cities of the world, American consuls, whose business, among
other things, is to study the local markets and report to the
government at Washington any chances to sell American
goods. These reports are published and circulated among
manufacturers. If there is a demand for windmills in Siam
or for light automobiles in Manchuria, the American consul
will find it out and report the matter home for the information
of those interested. The government also demands
equal privileges for American merchants and financiers in
China and other Oriental countries, and in 1900 joined with
Germany, England, and other European countries to defend
Americans engaged in trading and missionary enterprises in
China. The Department of Commerce is constantly studying
ways of increasing foreign trade.
The trust question.--While protecting manufacturers
against foreign competition, the federal government interferes
at home to protect the small manufacturer against his
neighbors who combine to undersell and otherwise defeat
him in business. Big and little manufacturers are often
more at odds over the best policy for the government to adopt
than are the manufacturers and their employees, and they
are frequently found working against each other at Washington
when legislation affecting business is under discussion.
This leads us into the most important question in the United
States to-day, - the trust question,--and we should try to
go to the heart of it.
The old theory of competition.--Many years ago when
manufacturing by machinery on a considerable scale first
began in the United States, our theory of business was about
as follows: "Any enterprising man with a little capital can



go into manufacturing on a small scale and can, by management
and skill, become a master of some magnitude." Take
a single example in the boot and shoe industry. A shoemaker
started with a small shop; he added one machine
after another, until in time he became a great mill owner.
Other shoemakers found their way up in the same fashion.
The ambition of men to go into business for themselves
and the desire of people with money to invest it profitably
made competition in the boot and shoe business very keen,
so that the prices of boots and shoes were kept down to about
the lowest point at which the product could be made.
Writers on political economy said: "This is a 'natural'
state of industry. It gives enterprising men a chance, and
it keeps prices down to a fair level. All the government has
to do is to keep its hands off, and everything will be well."
How big combinations and trusts grew up.--Unhappily
for the theorists, this "natural" state of industry did not
go on in the old way. The most enterprising of the business
men in the great industries--iron and steel, copper,
sugar, and so on - began to destroy the less enterprising
by showing more skill and zeal in management. The big
manufacturer with a large output could undersell the little
manufacturer and drive him to the wall. In time there came
to be a few great masters of business in the staple industries
just mentioned, and they warred with each other with might
and main, cutting prices, advertising widely, and employing
all kinds of schemes to get advantages over one another.
Many competitors went down to ruin in this industrial war
among big captains of industry. In time, some of the
shrewdest said: " What folly it is for us to be wasting all
this strength trying to beat one another to the wall. Let us
come together, put all of our competing plants into the hands
of trustees (hence the term 'trust'), stop this fierce competition,
fix the prices of our goods, and prevent over-production
one year and a panic the next." Thus the trust or combination



was born of competition--the very methods
which theorists thought would remain forever as the "natural
system of business."
The unfair methods of trusts.--As soon as a trust was
formed, it began to wage war on any rivals left in the field.
It did this not only by fair underselling, but also by other
methods. It entered into secret agreements with railways
whereby the latter, while apparently charging all concerns
the same freight rates for the same shipments, in fact returned
a part or all of the money paid by the trust. This practice
was called the payment of " rebates." Often the trust
would sell below cost in some parts of the country where it
had competitors, and would drive them out by ruinous competition,
while in other parts where there were no rivals
it would put the prices up high enough to make up the
loss. Prices were no longer settled by competition, but by
the managing boards of trusts. The man with small capital
thus had little or no chance of starting for himself in any of
the great staple industries.
The federal law against trusts--the Sherman act of 1890.
--Then it happened that the thousands of small business
men who were being crowded to the wall by the fair and
foul means of the trusts began to demand government
interference with business. At length in 1890 the federal
government responded to the cry for help. All of the great
trusts were engaged in interstate commerce and thus came
under the power of Congress. In that year, Congress
forbade all trusts, agreements, and combinations in restraint
of interstate and foreign trade, and made provision for punishing
persons guilty of forming them. For more than ten
years, this law was not enforced, and all the while the trusts
were multiplying in number and size. Finally the government
began to prosecute some of the trusts and break them
up. It was hard to " unscramble eggs," as one financier
put it, but some of the big trusts, like the Standard Oil and



Tobacco concerns, were "dissolved" into a score or more
separate companies.
Present theories about what to do with the trusts.--
Nobody was satisfied with the outcome. Small business
men still complained that the government had not broken
the trusts into enough parts, and that they could not even
compete with any of the score or more of large companies
into which the original trusts were divided. The public
complained that prices were higher, if anything, after the
dissolution than before. Four leading views were put forward
by eminent men as to what should be done next. These
views we shall try to state here, as they form the basis of
political strife to-day.
The advocates of a radical breaking up of the trusts.--
A group of persons who advocate further war on the trusts, in
the form of breaking them up, hold that the trust is not a
natural result of competition, but that it has been built up
by unfair practices, such as rebates and underselling, and
that it has been fostered by the tariff which shuts out
European competition. Their remedy is to divide each trust
into a number of very small concerns, to force them to
compete with one another by preventing their coming together
in any form, and to stop all kinds of unfair practices
-rebates and the like. Into just how many parts a big
trust should be broken in order to give the small man a
chance and just what practices in competition are to be
deemed unfair and to be forbidden are questions on which
this group of people are divided, however.
Regulation of the trusts.--A second group of persons hold
that the trust is the inevitable outcome of competition, that
if every unfair practice were forbidden, the race would be
to the keenest and the strongest business men and the result
would be the formation of gigantic combinations just
the same. They hold also that, even were each big trust
broken into a hundred parts or a thousand parts, it would



require an army of government inspectors to keep them
competing with one another, and that in spite of everything
they would come together some way or another in self-defense.
It would be just as if all wealth were divided up and each
man given an equal share ; the keen and scheming and thrifty
would have it all back in a short time. This second group
of people, therefore, are against breaking up the trusts and
propose that the government should regulate them--their
organization and their prices-by a board, just as it regulates
the services and charges of railways (p. 180). This
group say that competition is good only up to a certain
point and that by properly using the advantages offered
by the trusts - particularly large scale production--lower
prices could be made to the public than could possibly be
obtained under competition.
The socialist theory about the trusts.--A third group of
persons agree with the second in holding that the trusts are
inevitable, and that dissolution is not only impossible but
undesirable. They differ, however, in thinking that the
government is powerful enough to control the gigantic concerns
with their enormous wealth and political power. This
group accordingly maintain that the only hope is for the
government to buy out these great trusts and run them as
government industries - just as it conducts the post office.
The managers and employees of the trusts would continue
at work, but as government employees. This group of advocates
are known as socialists. They are not necessarily at
war with the second group except that they believe gov-
ernment regulation to be at best only a step to government
ownership. The immediate issue is between those who
believe in the forcible breaking up of trusts and forcible
competition and those who believe in government regulation
of prices and methods, for socialists are a minority group.
Theory of "natural monopoly."--There is still a fourth
group of persons who would combine some of the elements



of each of the three theories just expounded. The members
of this group believe in government ownership of what they
call "natural monopolies"--railways, telegraph lines, mines,
and express companies--in which undertakings competition
is well-nigh impossible or the supply is limited. A few years
ago, Mr. Bryan announced himself in favor of public ownership
of railways, and in 1913 Postmaster-General Burleson
indorsed this solution of the transportation question. The
government is now about to make an experiment in public
ownership of mines and railways in Alaska. Some of those
who believe in the government ownership of the natural monopolies
think that competition might very easily be maintained
in the other fields of business.
                                        

                    

                    
WHAT THE GOVERNMENT DOES FOR THE FARMERS
                    
The public land grants to farmers.--It is partly due to
the policy and work of the federal government that we are
so largely a nation of farmers. From the establishment of
the Constitution to the present time the national government
has been a great landowner. When peace was made
with Great Britain after the Revolutionary War the new
country found itself in possession of enormous unoccupied
tracts beyond the Alleghanies, stretching to the Mississippi.
In 1803 the Louisiana territory was purchased from France;
in 1819 Florida was secured from Spain; in 1848 a vast
region westward to the Pacific was acquired by the war with
Mexico; in 1867 Alaska was bought from Russia; and in
1898 the Hawaiian Islands were acquired and Porto Rico
and the Philippines were added as a result of the Spanish
War.
The policy of the government in granting lands to farmers.
--With each acquisition of territory the federal government
has obtained new public domains. The lands already held
by private parties within the territories, under the laws of



the countries formerly owning them, have been left, of course,
undisturbed, but the wild and unoccupied lands have fallen
into the hands of the government. In the beginning it was
thought that such lands ought to be sold to large companies
for the purpose of getting money to apply toward the expenses
of the national government, and for a long time this
policy was actually followed. At length, however, the
government began to adopt the policy of selling in small
lots with a view to encouraging the settlement of farmers
on the soil; and finally, in 1862, by the famous Homestead
Act, it provided that any person could secure 160 acres of
government land by settling on it and cultivating it for a
period of five years.
Irrigation works.--By this policy the federal government
has furnished free homes to millions who would have otherwise
been renters or city dwellers, and it has now given away
practically all of the land that is good for farming purposes.
Finding the best land nearly all gone, Congress began in
1902 to reclaim enormous tracts of desert and semi-arid lands
by building irrigation systems. By a law passed in that
year the proceeds from the sales of certain lands were to be
devoted to building huge dams and storing water for distribution
over the dry regions, and since that time some wonder-
ful engineering feats have been accomplished by the government.
Within six years over seven hundred thousand acres
had been redeemed for cultivation. This land is sold in small
tracts to actual settlers, and the money thus obtained is
applied to new irrigation works.
Agricultural colleges.--In addition to giving away the
land to the farmers, the federal government has helped
them in many ways to improve their methods, increase their
crops, and make country life more agreeable. In the first
place it has made enormous grants of lands to the states to
aid them in founding and developing agricultural colleges
where prospective farmers may be taught all the latest



achievements of science in the field of agriculture. Further.
more, Congress aids these colleges by direct grants of money
--$50,000 a year each. Congress also appropriates money
for agricultural stations in the several states, at which all
kinds of experiments in fertilizing the soil, improving the
breeds of stock and plants, and fighting insects and disease
are carried on.
The Department of Agriculture.--Congress established
in 1862 a Department of Agriculture which now comprises
a number of important bureaus and has an annual appropriation
of more than $16,000,000. A bureau of animal
industry investigates the breeding, feeding, and diseases of
animals; a bureau of plant industry studies the best methods
of improving crops by selecting seeds, introducing new grains
and plants; a bureau of chemistry studies the problems of
fertilizing the soil; a bureau of soils has made a survey of
more than one-fourth of the farm land of the country with
a view to discovering the nature and kinds of the plants
best suited to the several sections, and has prepared maps
showing for what kinds of farming the various parts of the
country are well adapted. A bureau of entomology wages
war on the insects and diseases which attack plants, trees,
and grains, and furnishes information as to the best methods
of fighting them. Although these bureaus are principally
for. the study of agricultural problems, the results of their
valuable investigations are speedily made available to the
public through bulletins and disseminated through the state
agricultural colleges to practical farmers. The weather
bureau saves a great deal of money to the farmers (as well
as to other people) by warning them of cold waves, frosts,
and storms.


                    
                    
                                        
A NATIONAL IRRIGATION PLANT
                                        
                    
                    

                    



                    

                    
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT AND THE INDUSTRIAL
WORKERS
                    
The power of Congress over labor matters.--The federal
government has no power under the Constitution as it now
stands to regulate factories and foundries and mines as such;
its power over manufacturing is derived from its power to
regulate interstate commerce and to lay taxes. The national
government has so far taken more interest in the consumer
of products made in factories than in the condition of the
working people in them, and strict constructionists-- 
those who would reduce the powers of Congress to the minimum--hold
that while Congress can say to a manufacturer,
"You cannot use this or that chemical in this food or drug,"
it has no power to say, "You must do this or that for the
working people employed in making any commodity which
you sell in interstate trade." In other words, from this
point of view, the federal government can say to the manufacturer
of goods sold in more than one state, "You shall not
kill the consumer by poisons," but it has no right to add
"or the producer either, by insanitary shops, low wages,
long hours, and dangerous machines."
Federal laws about labor.--The apparent exception to
this rule is the case of railway employees engaged in interstate
commerce. In 1908 Congress enacted a law providing
that common carriers engaged in interstate commerce shall
be held liable for injuries sustained by employees in their
service; that is, a workman injured on such railways may
secure a compensation graded according to the gravity of
the injury. About the same time a federal law was passed
limiting the hours of trainmen and telegraphers employed
in interstate business--not merely because the hours were
thought to be too long, but particularly because the public
suffered from wrecks and other disasters which could be
traced to the fact that employees had worked so long that
they had fallen asleep at their duties.



The Department of Labor.--Most of the work done by
the federal government for labor is in the nature of securing
information on labor problems and their solution. There
is now a Department of Labor, established in 1913, which
is authorized to study labor laws of the several states and
of Europe, investigate all kinds of proposals to improve the
lot of working people, and to publish reports for the use
of the public. There has been recently established a bureau
of mines charged with investigating the causes of disasters
in mines and helping to educate miners in taking scientific
care to prevent explosions and other accidents. Although
the bureau cannot order a mining company to make any
changes necessary to safeguard its employees, it can publish
its reports and indirectly call the attention of the
state labor department to the existing conditions. In the
Department of Labor there is also a children's bureau,
established for the purpose of investigating all kinds of
matters having to do with the care, health, education, and
labor of children.
Competition with foreign labor.--Under its power to
regulate foreign commerce, Congress does a little to protect
working people against cheap foreign labor. It forbids
altogether the immigration of Chinese common laborers,
and it forbids any American manufacturer to arrange by
contract to bring in foreign laborers of any nationality.
The prohibition of Chinese labor is effective; but the American
laborer is thrown into competition with European immigrants
brought over by the hundreds of thousands by steamship
companies. The low steerage rates make Europe nearer
to the United States now than New York City was to Chicago
three generations ago. In fact, American industries are
now manned to a very large extent not merely by laborers
of foreign origin but by non-naturalized foreigners.
Immigration.--The federal government has entire control
over the admission of foreigners into the United States, and
it now excludes by law the following classes:



Criminals, diseased, and insane persons and those likely
to be a public charge.
Chinese and other Oriental laborers.
Laborers imported under contract to work for specified
employers.
The steady increase in the number of foreigners coming
into the United States, and particularly the drift of the
foreigners to the great cities have led to the proposal of
new tests designed to reduce materially the number of immigrants
admitted.1 The most prominent new test suggested
is a literacy test, requiring immigrants to be able to read and
write. To this it is objected that it would keep out a large
number of able-bodied and useful working men and women,
and might readily admit the worst and most useless persons
in the world. Another method suggested for reducing immigration
is to cut down automatically the number coming
from any one country to a certain percentage of the number
coming last year; for example, if 100,000 came from a given
country last year, admit only 75,000 this year. The number
of immigrants coming into the United States during the year
ending June 30, 1913, was 1,197,892, and the total number
between 1824 and 1913 is estimated at over 30,000,000.
Labor employed by the government.--The government
is also directly or indirectly an employer of labor on a large
scale, and it has established certain standards as to hours
and wages. Where working people are employed directly
by the government, as in ship yards or public works, the
hours and wages are fixed under acts of Congress. When
the government engages contractors to build ships, construct
buildings, and do other public work, it stipulates as to the
conditions under which the labor is to be done. The government
may thus become a "model employer."
                    
1 The administration of the immigration law is in the hands of officers at
each port and under the supervision of the commissioner general of immigration
in the Department of Labor at Washington.
                    
                    


                    
                    

BUSINESS UNDERTAKINGS OF THE GOVERNMENT

The post office.--From the beginning of our government
under the Constitution, carrying the mails has been a public
undertaking. In 1789 there were 75 post offices, and about
$37,000 worth of business was done. In 1909 there were
over 60,000 post offices, and nearly a quarter of a billion
dollars' worth of business was transacted. In the beginning
it cost twenty-five cents to send a letter more than 450
miles; now a letter can be sent from Maine to the Philippines
for two cents, and recently arrangements have been
made to send letters to England and Germany for two cents.
The services rendered by the post office.--In the beginning
the government confined its operations to carrying letters
and papers from one post office to another, but it has gradually
extended its work, until to-day it maintains the following
services:
 

                    
It registers letters so as to guarantee their safe delivery.
It transmits money by means of post-office orders.
It delivers mail in towns of 10,000 inhabitants, and, by a system
of rural free delivery, it carries mail over thousands of miles of
country roads to the farmers.
Since January, 1911, it has been engaged in the banking business,
accepting deposits at thousands of designated branches and paying
a low rate of interest on the money so deposited.
In January, 1913, it established a system for carrying parcels.
                    

                    

                    
In 1913 the Postmaster-General urged Congress to follow
the example of England and combine the telegraph business
with the transmission of mails.                
Natural resources.--In 1910 the federal government
possessed in the United States and Alaska over 700,000,000
acres of land, most of which is rugged and mountainous and
unsuited for farming purposes. Nevertheless, it is of priceless
value on account of the timber, and the coal, iron, and
other mineral deposits, and the waterfalls which may be used



for power. What is to be done with this immense heritage
is one of the most momentous public questions to-day.
Formerly, it was the practice of the government to sell its
lands as rapidly as possible at a low price, even when it was
known that rich mineral deposits existed on them or that
valuable timber could be immediately cut on them. But on
account of the rapidly diminishing area of lands, the lavish
giving of public property to private persons without any
adequate return is being strongly opposed, and this has made
what is called "the conservation of our natural resources"
an issue of first importance.
Proposals for dealing with our natural resources.--At this
moment the government is in a state of indecision. The old
policy of giving away public property for the benefit of huge
timber and mineral corporations is no longer possible; but
no consistent line of action has been marked out for the
future. Broadly speaking, three policies are now under
discussion:


                    

                    
 The lands now owned by the federal government in the several
states may be granted to the states to be disposed of by them as
they see fit. Most of the opposition to this policy comes from those
who believe that as soon as the states secure possession of the
property, timber and mining companies will snatch them from
corrupt state legislatures.
 The lands may be retained permanently by the federal government
and (a) leased out to private operating companies at a
certain rental on the coal or other minerals mined or water power
developed or timber cut; or (b) the federal government might go
into the business itself, either by employing persons directly or
having contractors do the work.
 The lands may be valued at something like their real price,
based on surveys, and sold to private concerns for the benefit of
the public treasury.
                    

                    

                    


The big problem is how to get these resources into economical
use and avoid giving anything to private persons
without suitable return.


                                        
Surveying the national domains.--At the present time enormous
areas of coal, timber, and water power lands have
been withdrawn from sale, and are being carefully studied
and classified by the United States geological survey. Congress
has made provision for separating the surface of the
land from the coal under it in making sales, so that when
a farmer takes up a certain area for agricultural purposes
he does not necessarily acquire title to rich coal mines which
may be discovered underground. Congress has also made
provision for leasing waterfalls now in the possession of
the federal government instead of selling them outright or
giving them away. In 1912 more than 10,000,000 head of
sheep, horses, and cattle were grazing on public lands under
government permits, and from the national forests,
800,000,000 feet of timber were sold. In a short time we
shall have a complete survey of the national resources, and
they will be classified according to the uses to which they
may be put. Then Congress will have the information on
which to base a regular policy of action.
River and harbor improvements.--In addition to carrying
on great irrigation works and managing enormous natural
resources, the federal government is constantly engaged in
making extensive river and harbor improvements. It has
spent vast sums building levees on the lower Mississippi
and in dredging shallow streams to make them available for
navigation. It is steadily at work deepening the entrances,
building breakwaters, and otherwise improving harbors for
ocean trade all around the coast from Maine to California.
This work is usually done under the direction of the Department
of War, and its execution is under the control of the
expert engineers of the United States.
The waste of public funds in such schemes.--Unfortunately,
however, there is frequently more politics than business in
the making of public improvements. Each locality that
has the slightest claim is always clamoring for the government



to spend money there, making one kind of improvement
or another, and the representatives of such districts
in Congress devote a great deal of time working to secure
grants from the public treasury for their respective regions.
Thus it occurs that these improvements are not always
made because there is a real need for them or because
business or trade interests require them, but rather because
the politicians have been able to worm the money out of the
Treasury. Little creeks are dredged at a cost exceeding
the value of all the steamboats and goods that will pass
through them; works are begun and abandoned because
some other congressman has been able to get the money
away from the district; and so public funds are wasted.                  
The Panama Canal.--The most gigantic business enterprise
ever undertaken by the federal government was the
construction of the canal across the isthmus of Panama.
A small strip of land ten miles wide was secured from the
republic of Panama in 1904 and the building of the canal
under the direction of the War Department was quickly
begun. The government has employed between thirty and
sixty thousand men on the work, has housed them, managed
the food supplies, guarded them against disease, and carried
on the undertaking with great skill and dispatch. The total
estimated cost is about $375,000,000, and the government
expects to derive a large revenue from the tolls which are
to be charged ships passing through the canal.
Building national highways.--In the early part of the
nineteenth century the federal government sought to help in
the development of the backward regions by the construction
of highways, and the famous National Road is one of
its best-known achievements in this line. It was in 1838
that Congress made its last appropriation for that road.
Those who believed in states' rights did not want the federal
government to engage in this business, and the rapid building
of railway lines seemed to make it unnecessary to the


                    
shipping and carrying interests. However, at the opening
of the twentieth century the development of the automobile
and the extension of the rural free delivery system led members
of Congress to begin new plans for federal road building.
On August 24, 1912, Congress made a small appropriation
of $500,000, to be expended by the Postmaster-General and
the Secretary of Agriculture in building " experimental and
rural delivery routes." In order for a state to get any of
this money it must agree to spend two dollars for each dollar
furnished by the federal government. In the Department
of Agriculture extensive experiments in road building
and road-material testing are being carried on for the public
benefit.
                                        

                    

                    
FEDERAL HEALTH WORK
                    
Health not altogether a local concern.--Although we have
long looked upon the care of health as a local matter to be
put in charge of city, county, and village officers, the national
government does many noteworthy things to protect us
against disease, and scientists are turning more and more
toward state and national authorities as the proper agencies
to guard public health. Disease is not a local matter. It
spreads over county, city, state, and national boundaries
like magic, completely ignoring "states' rights" and political
parties. For this reason, very vigorous efforts have been
made recently to have Congress create a national Department
of Health with a chief having a seat in the Cabinet of
the President.
Inspection of immigrants.--This law has not yet been
passed, and at the present time the health work of the federal
government is divided up among several bureaus. In the
Department of Agriculture there are the bureau of chemistry
and the board of food and drug inspection which have charge
of enforcing the pure food and drug law of which we have
spoken (p. 181). At all ports incoming ships are inspected



by federal officers, and any ship found to have on board
persons suffering from dangerous contagious diseases is put
into quarantine until all danger is over. The immigration
laws exclude all immigrants affected with tuberculosis or
loathsome and dangerous diseases, and at the ports of
entry health officers examine immigrants, and compel the
steamship companies to take back home those found to be
physically unfit to enter the country.
The "public health service."--For a number of years
the federal government has maintained a "Public Health
and Marine Hospital Service" which has done splendid
work in helping fight disease in all parts of the United States.
When the Asiatic cholera invaded the Gulf States in 1905
the experts in that service responded to a call for aid, and by
cooperating with local agencies quickly stamped out the
disease. Again, in 1907, when the bubonic plague attacked
San Francisco, that bureau sent out skilled scientists who
worked with the local health officers and discovered that rats
were largely responsible for the spread of the disease. By
stringent measures and a war on rats, the plague was stopped
within a short time, greatly to the relief of the imperiled
city.
The reorganization of federal health work in 1912.--In
1912 the bureau was reorganized and given the name of
"The Public Health Service." It was authorized to "study
and investigate the diseases of man and the conditions influencing
the propagation and spread thereof, including sanitation
and sewage and the pollution, either directly or
indirectly, of the navigable streams and lakes of the United
States, and it may from time to time issue information in
the form of publications for the use of the public." The
federal government thus expressly authorizes a widespread
and exhaustive scientific research into the causes of disease,
and the results of this work will be laid before the public
and used by the state and local officers in fighting disease.



The federal government now wages war with the test tube
and microscope, as well as with the sword and bayonet.
                    

                    

                    
NATIONAL DEFENSE
                    
The standing army.--Congress has full power to raise and
support armies and navies, and it may call to the service of
the federal government every able-bodied male citizen in
the United States. Unlike several of the great powers of
Europe, we do not require every man to serve in the army for
a period of two or three years. Our regular or standing
army is composed entirely of volunteers who choose that
career of their own free will. Volunteers must serve four
years with the flag and three years more in the reserve,
subject to call at any time. At the time of the Spanish
War our regular army consisted of only 25,000 men, but in
1898 Congress provided that it should consist of at least
57,000 men and not more than 100,000, as the President
may decide. At the present time it numbers about 82,000,
including all the officers.
The militia.--Each state has a small military force known
as the militia, composed of men who volunteer. Those who
join the militia, however, do not leave their regular employments,
but merely drill on certain afternoons or evenings,
and, perhaps, go into encampments for field work during a
few days of each year. These militiamen may be called into
the national service at any time by the President, and the
federal government has arranged to give them a chance to
participate in the field practice of the regular army so that
they may gain more experience in manoeuvres and tactics.
The reserve militia.--The great body of men who are not
in the regular army or members of the state militia compose
what is known as " the reserve militia," and they too may be
called into military service by the President at any time there
is need for them. As a matter of fact, however, the chief


                    
reliance for national defense in time of war is the volunteers
who place themselves at the service of the government
for a definite period. Fortunately for the United States we
have no powerful neighbors with whom we are on such uneasy
terms as exists in the case of France and Germany, and it is
not necessary to maintain an enormous standing army or
to require compulsory service. Moreover, Americans have
been afraid of regular armies in the command of ambitious
generals, and have placed their main reliance upon the citizen
soldiers who volunteer in time of crisis. Of course, there
is some danger in pitting them against disciplined veterans,
but the danger and the waste of time involved in getting
them into good fighting order are offset by the freedom from
the heavy expenses and from the military spirit which large
standing armies require.
The navy.--Until the Spanish War the navy did not enlist
as much public interest as the army, and there was little
thought of entering into competition with the great powers of
Europe for dominion on the seas. During the War of 1812,
American sailors rendered a good account of themselves in
several sea fights, but the Mexican and Civil wars were
principally land wars. Inasmuch as nearly all of our territory
was compact on the North American continent, it was
thought that good coast defenses and a few battleships would
suffice for national defense. The acquisition of the Philippines
and Hawaii and Porto Rico, however, changed all of
that, and made it clear that in case of a war with a European
or Asiatic power it would be necessary to have a large navy to
defend the distant possessions. Then the excellent fighting
of the navy during the Spanish War aroused an immense
popular enthusiasm.
Rapid increase in naval expenditures.--Since that time
the navy has been growing rapidly. In 1911-1912 the United
States stood next to Great Britain in the amount of money
spent for naval purposes, and at the same time the American



navy, measured in tonnage, was third among the world's
navies - Great Britain and Germany being ahead. Germany
and England are going forward at breakneck speed,
building huge battleships, and if the United States expects to
keep up with them, it must be prepared to spend its treasure
as they do, at the sacrifice of important home undertakings.
The command of the army and navy.--Congress alone can
declare war against any foreign country, but if we are
attacked, the President can of course bring our forces into
the field without waiting for Congress to act. Indeed, since
the President carries on all negotiations with other powers,
he may very well act in such a manner as to bring on war;
this is what President Polk did in the controversy with Mexico
in 1845. The President is commander-in-chief in time of
peace as well as in time of war, and when war is begun he
may take the field himself if he chooses. No President has
done this, but all of the Presidents who have been compelled
to wage war have shared more or less in directing the campaigns.
Of course, the President acts with the advice of the
generals in the field and his military advisers--the general
staff--at Washington. During the Spanish War, for example,
President McKinley had one room of the White House
fitted up as a " war room " with telegraphic communications
to the front and to all parts of the world. In that room the
records of every move by the army and navy were made, and
directions prepared and issued to those in command on the
fighting line.
Pensions for soldiers.--In addition to spending enormous
sums in preparing for war, our government is most lavish in
pensioning those who have served in past wars. For a long
time it was the policy to pension only those soldiers actually
injured in service or those soldiers' families which were left
in poverty by the death of the breadwinners. In 1890
Congress began granting pensions to soldiers, not on a basis
of their injuries or service but according to "the degree of



inability to earn a support." The amount of pension granted
has been increased several times, and in 1912 Congress passed
a law granting larger pensions to soldiers, on the basis of their
terms of service and their age, amounting to as much as $30
a month to soldiers over 75 who served at least three years.
In that year there were about 860,000 soldiers, widows,
and other pensioners on the roll, and $152,000,000 was
appropriated for their benefit--a sum which is materially
increased by the new law just mentioned.
                    

                    

                    
THE PEACE MOVEMENT
                    
The cost of wars.--If we put the cost of past wars, the
pension fund, and the cost of preparing for war together,
we find that far more than one-half of all the revenues of the
federal government go for military purposes--72 per cent in
1909, leaving only 28 per cent for the purposes of peace.
This fact alone should make us all thoughtful. But there are
other reasons for thinking seriously about the question of
putting an end to war altogether. Not only does it seem
folly to spend so much for warlike purposes when there is so
great need of making this world a better place to live in, but
the horrors of all wars and the injustice of most of them should
make us inquire whether a peaceful way of settling disputes
among nations cannot be found.
War against war.--Many of the leading statesmen of the
world are now giving this matter their earnest attention, and
millions of workingmen in the various countries have declared
"war on war," announcing that they do not intend to shoot
and be shot in order that governments may grab more lands
or that capitalists may invest their money abroad more
safely. In 1897 the Tsar of Russia called a conference of
representatives of all the countries of the world at the Hague
to discuss the limitation of armaments. That conference
led to the establishment of a Court of Arbitration to which,



on occasion, countries engaged in a quarrel may submit
their case, thus leaving the decision to the judgment of fair-
minded men. As a result of that conference also, most of the
nations, by treaties among themselves, have agreed to submit
all differences which do not " affect the vital interests, the
independence, or honor of either of the parties or the interests
of third nations," to the judgment of this Court.
Arbitration treaties.--Of course, this exemption of matters
affecting vital interests and honor from arbitration practically
nullifies the arbitration treaties, for it is easy for any
country to say that a trivial matter affects its "honor."
For this reason, President Taft negotiated, in 1911, treaties
with France and England, agreeing to submit to arbitration
"all matters justiciable (capable of settlement by a court)
in their nature," thus bringing a little nearer a promise to
submit all matters to arbitration. The Senate, however,
refused to ratify the treaties in this form. Nevertheless, the
growth of peace societies in numbers and influence, the recognition
of the terrible cost of warlike preparations, the demand
for more money for the peaceful and beneficent purposes of
government, the discontent of the working classes everywhere
with military service and with the thought of fighting one
another to death for no advantages to themselves,--all these
things point to a day when public opinion will demand a
peaceful settlement of disputes among nations.
                    

                    

                    
FOREIGN AFFAIRS
                    
The importance of the President's power in international
affairs.--In maintaining friendly relations with other
countries, a great deal depends upon the wisdom and moderation
of the President, for he is the official spokesman of the
country in its dealings with foreign powers. He negotiates
treaties with the agents of other nations, but each treaty
must have the approval of the Senate, a two-thirds vote being



required in this case. He appoints our ambassadors and
ministers to foreign countries, by and with the advice and
consent of the Senate. Through these official representatives
the President communicates to other governments the policy
of the United States on questions of international significance,
and through them he receives information as to the policies
and desires of the countries to which they are sent. He also
appoints (with the consent of the Senate) the consuls who are
our agents abroad in commercial and business affairs.
How the President negotiates with other countries.-Pleasing
and harmonious relations with other peoples depend in
some measure upon the character of the men whom the
President selects to represent us as ambassadors, ministers,
and consuls. The President cannot declare war; but he
can do many things which invite the hostility of other countries.
He may say things in his messages to Congress which
may offend some other government, as was the case when
President Cleveland in 1895 recommended Congress to take a
certain action which looked like an interference in the quarrel
between Great Britain and Venezuela. The President may
also invite war by sending our troops or battleships out
under such circumstances as to cause some other nations
to view his action as positively hostile and menacing. It is
therefore obvious that the President should be a man
capable of acting with great caution and sobriety of judgment
in dealing with foreign affairs.
                    

                    

                    
THE MONETARY SYSTEM 
                    
Gold and silver coinage.--The Constitution gives Congress
the power to coin money and regulate the value thereof,
and at the same time it forbids the states to coin money or
issue bills of credit or to make anything but the gold and silver
coin of the United States a legal tender in payment of debts.
From the beginning of the national government down to 1900



there was much discussion over the amount of gold and silver
to be put into the gold and silver dollars respectively. It is
well known that an ounce of gold is worth several times as
much as an ounce of silver, because it is the more precious
of the two metals; that is, it is not as plentiful, and is more
highly prized in making ornaments and jewelry. If one
ounce of gold is worth sixteen ounces of silver, as a pure metal
or bullion on the market, it is clear that the silver in a silver
dollar must have sixteen times the weight of the gold which
is put into a gold dollar. If this is not done, the two dollars
will not circulate equally as money.
The "ratio" between gold and silver in coins.--If, for example,
at a time when sixteen ounces of silver are worth one
ounce of gold, the government should put seventeen times as
much silver as gold in a dollar, gold dollars alone would circulate,
for people would hold the silver dollars and melt them
down for the pure silver, which could then be sold as bullion
for more than it is worth in the coin. This difficulty of
equally balancing the values of the two metals in the coins--
maintaining the ratio it is called -has been the source of
much of difficulty.
The history of the "ratio" down to 1873.--In 1792 we
began with the two metals at a ratio of 15 to 1, but it was soon
found that at this ratio gold had been undervalued, and consequently
little or no gold was brought to the Treasury to be
coined into money. At length, in 1834, Congress by law
fixed the ratio at approximately sixteen to one; but this was
found to be an overvaluation of gold, or an undervaluation of
silver as some said, and the result was that silver was not
brought to the treasury for coining and almost disappeared
from circulation. Finally, in 1873, when the silver dollar was
already practically out of circulation, Congress discontinued
the coinage of silver dollars altogether,--"demonetized "
it, and made gold the basis of the monetary system.
The "free silver" question.--It happened that about this



time the price of silver began to decline steadily, until within
twenty years it was about half what it was in 1870. Some
men attributed this fall in the price of silver to the fact that
Germany had demonetized it in 1871, and that rich deposits
were about the same time discovered in the United States.
Others declared that silver had not fallen so much in price,
but that gold, in which it was measured, had risen because of
the fact that silver had been demonetized and gold had been
given a monopoly of the coinage. There was some truth on
both sides, and good and wise people were sharply divided over
the matter. In order to satisfy the demand of the "silver"
party, Congress provided in 1878 for buying large quantities
of silver for coinage. The policy of buying silver for coinage
lasted until 1893, when it was abandoned. Then came the
famous fight over "free silver," in which the Democrats
demanded the free and unlimited coinage of silver at the ratio
of sixteen to one, although the market ratio was more nearly
thirty to one. The Democrats were defeated, and in 1900
Congress positively made gold the basis of our monetary
system. So things stand to-day.
Paper money. - The Constitution does not expressly
authorize Congress to issue any paper money, but nevertheless
we have several varieties in circulation. Each paper
dollar is now backed up by a virtual promise to redeem in
gold.   During the Civil War the government secured
money by issuing "treasury notes," or "Greenbacks," as they
are called ; some of these notes were called in and others were
made redeemable in specie in 1879, and the latter are, therefore,
placed on a metallic money basis. In addition to these
treasury notes, there are "silver certificates" issued in the
place of silver deposited in the government vaults. These
certificates are more convenient than the metal, and they can
be exchanged at any time for silver dollars, and the silver
dollars can be exchanged for gold, so that they are on a gold
basis also. In addition, there are also "gold certificates"
issued on somewhat the same plan.



National bank notes.--Finally, there are the national bank
notes issued by national banks in cities all over the country.
These banks hold their charters from the federal government,
and were formerly authorized to issue paper money on the
basis of United States bonds and other securities deposited
by them with the federal Treasury. In 1912 these national
bank notes represented more than one-third of the money in
circulation. The position of national banks has now been
radically changed by the new law of 1913.
The problem of national banking.--This question of banking
has long been under earnest consideration, and several
grave problems have been raised. How is it possible to
adjust the amount of money in circulation to the demand for
it in business?  Some say that the entire work of issuing
money should be left to the government, while others would
enlarge the power of private banking corporations to issue
notes under government supervision. How is it possible
to prevent the money of the country from drifting to the
large cities, particularly New York, and tending to come under
the management of a few great business and financial concerns?
Some say it is "natural" for money to flow where
there is the best demand for it, and others reply that even
if this does come about naturally it enables a few bankers in
the great cities to control the thousands of smaller banks and
business people scattered throughout the country.
The new banking law of December, 1913.--A serious
attempt to solve these questions was made by Congress in the
new banking law passed in December, 1913. This is a long
and complicated measure which can hardly be understood
by any person not familiar with banking operations, but we
may note these leading features:
1. Provision is made for federal governmental control. A
Federal Reserve Board composed of the Secretary of the
Treasury and the Comptroller of the Currency and five
persons appointed by the President and Senate of the United



States is created to exercise general supervision over the whole
national banking system. The country is to be laid out into
not less than eight nor more than twelve great districts, and
in each is designated a Federal Reserve Bank, controlled by
six directors chosen by "Member Banks" and three appointed
by the Federal Reserve Board. National banks
must, and certain state banks in each district may, join in the
scheme, and they are known as "Member Banks" sharing in
the control, as above noted.
2. The Federal Reserve Board may issue Reserve Notes,
well secured,to the Reserve Banks to be put into general circulation.
The money issued at the discretion of the Federal
Reserve Board and on the basis of securities held by the
Reserve and Member Banks is redeemable in gold and is the
lawful money of the United States. By this law, it is apparent,
an attempt has been made to solve the leading problems
stated above: to secure federal governmental control, to give
local banks a fair share in the management of the system, to
distribute "the money power" over a wide area, and to
provide for the issue of notes to meet business demands.
                    

                    

                    
RAISING REVENUES FOR THE GOVERNMENT

The power of Congress to tax.--The federal government
is under the necessity of arranging every year to meet its
heavy bills. It must collect the money to pay them, and is
almost entirely dependent upon taxes for its income. Congress
has the power to lay all kinds of taxes, provided that
indirect taxes (such as taxes on goods coming into the country
and on whisky and tobacco) shall be uniform--that is,
equal on the same commodity everywhere in the nation; and
provided also that direct taxes (such as a tax on land) shall be
apportioned among the states according to the number of
their inhabitants. Furthermore, in 1913, Congress was
given the power by the sixteenth amendment to lay an income



tax (held by the Supreme Court to be a direct tax in 1895)
without apportioning it according to population.
The chief sources of federal revenues.--Congress decides
what kinds of taxes shall be used to raise revenues, and the
money which the federal government has to pay its expenses
now comes from the following chief sources:


                    

                    
 Customs duties on imports.
 Excise taxes on whisky and tobacco (internal revenue).
 Sales of public lands.
 Post office receipts.
 Taxes on the incomes of corporations.
 Taxes on the incomes of private persons. Unmarried persons
with incomes under $3000 a year are exempt. For a married couple
the exemption is $4000.
                    

                    

                    
The total receipts from all sources amount to nearly one billion
dollars annually, and more than one-half of that amount is
derived from the customs duties and internal revenues.
Making the budget.--The appropriation of the money so
raised by federal taxes and from other sources is also entirely
in the hands of Congress, and it is a troublesome task which
occupies the greater portion of the time of that body. Each
Representative and Senator as a rule tries to get as much
money as possible for his district or state. He demands
post office buildings, river and harbor improvements, naval
stations, and other public works which bring money to his
neighborhood. The actual need for such works is generally
not the thing which decides whether money is to be appropriated
for them or not. The congressmen bargain among
themselves; one member promises to vote for another
member's post office in return for a vote for his own pet
scheme. This practice is called " log-rolling," and it wastes
millions of dollars every year. Politicians actually bid for
votes on the ground that they have got money out of the
public treasury for their districts. Thus the local interest is
often put above the national interest.



Balancing the books.--Furthermore, there is little connection
between the taxes laid and the money spent by the
federal government. The former are imposed separately,
and not merely with a view to raising revenue, and so it
happens that the federal treasury usually has either a surplus
of money or a big deficit. Not often is there a nice balance
between the income and outgo, and if it occurs, it is an accident
rather than a design. In view of this condition of
affairs, proposals are being made to check log-rolling and make
the federal bookkeeping more businesslike. But as long as
the voters look upon a congressman as an agent whose chief
business it is to get money from the treasury for his own district
and find jobs for his friends, no reform can be effective.
                    

                    


THE GOVERNMENT OF TERRITORIES

The power of the federal government over territories.--
In addition to all of the work which we have described, the
federal government has the special task of governing directly
the District of Columbia and other regions not organized into
states: Porto Rico, Alaska, Hawaii, the Philippines, the
Canal Zone, Guam, and the Samoan Islands. The federal
Congress has the power to decide how these regions shall
be governed and also the power to admit any of them, except
the District of Columbia, Into the Union as states. It will
be remembered that we started out with only thirteen
states, and that the other thirty-five have been admitted to
the Union by Congress.
The District of Columbia.--The District of Columbia--
the City of Washington - presents a peculiar problem. It
has a population of 330,000, which is greater than that of each
of several states, but at the present time the people of that
District have absolutely no voice in their government. They
are governed by three commissioners, appointed by the
President and Senate, and by laws made in Congress. In



fact, Congress is a sort of town council for the City and
District. The city has been in part very beautifully laid
out by the government, but its slums are among the worst in
the country, and its death rate - that barometer of well-
being--is among the highest of all the cities in the country.
There is undoubtedly a great deal of dissatisfaction in Wash-
ington with the system of government now in force, and a
demand is made for some representation of the inhabitants
in the government that controls them.
The territories.--Porto Rico and the Philippines are each
governed by a governor appointed by the President and
Senate and by a legislature consisting of two houses, one
made up of persons appointed in the same manner as the
governor and the other house elected by the voters. Alaska
was for a long time ruled by a governor alone, but in 1912 it
was given a legislature of two houses, both elected by popular
vote; and the suffrage was soon conferred on women.
The Hawaiian Islands have a governor appointed by the
President and Senate and a legislature of two houses, elected
by popular vote. The other territories are governed directly,
without any legislature, through men appointed at Washington.
                    

                    

                    
                    Questions
                    
 What makes an industry national in character and how does
this affect the government?
 What is the states' rights position?
 What is meant by a "liberal construction" of the Constitution,
and why is it sometimes employed?
 What brings the national government close to each of us?
 What does the national government do for the farmer?
 What does the national government do for the consumer?
 What does the national government do for the industrial
worker?
 What does the national government do for the employer or
manufacturer?



 Name everything you can which comes under "interstate
commerce."
 Why is so much attention paid to railway legislation?
 What is meant by a protective tariff, and what is its theoretical
purpose? How do results compare with the theory?
 What is meant by free trade ? What is its theory of production?
 Why is the tariff always a compromise?
 What is meant by reciprocity?
 What are trusts, and why have they been formed?
 What are the theoretical advantages of competition?
 What are the prevailing theories about trust legislation?
 In what business enterprises does the national government
engage?
 What is meant by the conservation of natural resources?
 Describe our system of national defense.
 What are the causes of the agitation for international arbitration
or peace?
 What was the aim of the recent Currency Act?
 How does the government finance its undertakings?
 Is the national government businesslike in its methods of
raising and spending money?
 What are the territories of the United States and how are
they governed?
                    




                    
                    Additional Reading
                    
INDIVIDUAL FREEDOM AND LAW: Kaye, Readings in Civil Govern-
ment, pp. 392-497.
THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE: Haskin, The American Government,
pp. 14-26.
THE WORK OF THE TREASURY DEPARTMENT: Haskin, pp. 27-39.
NATIONAL DEFENSE: Haskin, pp. 40-64.
THE POST OFFICE: Haskin, pp. 65-77.
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR: Haskin, pp. 78-90.
HOW THE UNITED STATES ENCOURAGES INVENTIONS: Haskin,
pp. 91-102.
THE GEOLOGICAL SURVEY: Haskin, pp. 103-116.
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE: Haskin, pp. 117-129.
THE WEATHER BUREAU: Haskin, pp. 130-142.
THE CENSUS BUREAU:Haskin, pp. 157-169.


                    
THE BUREAU OF STANDARDS: Haskin, pp. 170-182.
NATIONAL HEALTH WORK: Haskin, pp. 183-195.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTE:Haskin, pp. 196-208.
THE PANAMA CANAL:Haskin, pp. 209-220.
THE INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION: Haskin, pp. 221-234;
Beard, American Government, pp. 379-400.
OUR INSULAR POSSESSIONS: Haskin, pp. 235-247.
THE GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : Haskin, pp. 299-311.
CONSERVATION OF NATIONAL RESOURCES: Beard, pp. 401-416.


                    

                    

                                        


                    
CHAPTER XV                   
THE WORK OF THE STATE GOVERNMENT
                    

                    
 How the state touches the citizen.
 Citizenship and voting.
 Marriage and Divorce.
                    

                                        
 Granting divorces.
                                        

                    

 Crimes and their penalties.
                    

                    
 The state government declares what acts are to be
deemed criminal.
 The prevention of crime.
 Two ways of looking upon punishment.
 The right notion about punishment.
 New methods of treating criminals.
                    

                    

 Education.
                    

                                        
 University extension work.
 The University is giving attention to the practical arts.
 Agriculture and engineering colleges.
 Training teachers.
                    

                    
                    
 Health.
                    

                                        
 The prevention of disease.
                                        

                    

 The state government and poverty.
                    

                                        
 The modern idea of preventing poverty.
 Some specific causes of poverty.
 The great war on poverty.
                                        

                    

 Workmen's compensation.
 Social insurance.
 Mothers' pensions.
 Minimum wage laws.
 Employment bureaus.
 The state government and trade unions.
 Trade unions and the law.
 General labor legislation.
                    

                                        
 The Wisconsin industrial commission.
                                        

                    




. The public control of business.
                    

                                        
 State regulation of railways.
 The Wisconsin method of controlling railways.
 The theory on which trusts are forbidden by some states.
 State laws about corporations.
                    

                    

 Good roads.
                    

                                        
 How the state government may help in building roads.
 Why state aid is essential to proper road building.
                                        

                    

 The state's natural resources.
 How the state raises the revenues for its work.
                    

                                        
 The general property tax.
 The difficulty of taxing personal property.
 The income tax.
 The inheritance tax.
 The tax on corporations.
                    

                    



                    
                    

How the state touches the citizen.--Although people
grow less excited over the election of a governor and a state
legislature than over a presidential campaign, it is not because
the state government has less influence over their lives.
Nearly all we do, from the cradle to the grave, brings us into
touch with the government of the state. Whether we live
in the country or in a city, whether we are in the kitchen cooking
breakfast or are high on a building riveting steel framework,
the government of the state by its good deeds or its
neglect, affects our lives. If the food we are preparing is
short of weight or adulterated, it is because the laws of the
state are bad or are not enforced; if we are seriously injured
while at work, the state may let us suffer in poverty or may
protect us by a workman's compensation law. If we are
farmers, we may find that the freight rates on the milk and
grain we send to a neighboring town are fixed by a state
board; if we are manufacturers, we may find the state telling
us that we must have sanitary workshops, or even ordering
us not to pay below a certain wage or not to employ children
under sixteen years of age. Thus every one ought to have a
deep interest in state affairs,



The plan of this chapter.--To make clear how important
the government of the state really is, we shall name many
of the matters which are committed to its care; and then,
in order to show how the work of state governments may be
made more helpful to all of us, we shall describe some of the
new experiments which are being tried out in some of the
states.
Citizenship and voting.--Although the United States
government alone can make a citizen out of a foreigner, it is
left to the state to decide on what terms natives and foreigners
shall be allowed to take part in the government by voting.
That is, the state, subject to the rules laid down in the federal
Constitution (p. 69) determines who shall be permitted
to vote. A few states have given the suffrage to aliens upon
their declaring their intention to become citizens of the
United States. A state may decide whether or not foreigners
shall be permitted to hold land, but it cannot violate a treaty
made by the United States with a foreign power giving to its
subjects specific rights to travel, do business, and buy property
anywhere in the Union.
Marriage and divorce.--The state government may make
it easy or difficult for couples to be married or to be separated
by divorce. Some states allow almost any couple to form a
lawful union that can find a clergyman to marry them; other
states make strict rules and require the issuance of a license
in due form before marriage. Some states pay no attention
as to whether the couples seeking to be married are diseased,
feeble-minded, or criminal, while others prevent persons
physically and mentally unfit from securing licenses to be
married. Of course many people believe that any couple
that wish to marry should be allowed to do so, and that
the government (that is, the rest of us) has no interest
in the affair. Since, however, the children born of parents
physically or mentally diseased are extremely likely to be
diseased or insane themselves and a charge upon the



community to support, is marriage not a public matter?
Why should the state government bother to stamp out disease
at a great cost, and to maintain public asylums for
defectives and then take no interest in one of the chief
causes of disease and delinquency; namely, the marriage
of the unfit?
Granting divorces.--Many persons, particularly Catholics,
regard marriage as a sacred matter, and do not believe
that a husband and wife should be divorced for any cause
whatsoever. None of our states, however, except South
Carolina, takes this view of marriage; but each one decides
for itself for what causes couples may be separated. Some
states make divorce very easy--allowing separation for
such causes as drunkenness, bad temper, desertion for a
certain length of time, failure to provide a decent living, and
so on; other states will allow persons to be divorced only
where one or the other has committed a very grave offense.
When divorce is allowed, the state may decide about the
disposition of the children and the property. The law may
lean toward the father, and is likely to, because old custom
gave the father possession of the children; but in some
states the father and mother are given equal rights in the
children, and each case is settled according to circumstances.
When a wife is allowed a divorce from her husband, the latter
may be compelled to make provision for her support--alimony
it is called - and some courts are very severe in the
charges which they lay upon divorced husbands. Divorces
are granted by the courts, after a hearing, just as in other
trials.
Crimes and their penalties.--A crime is an unlawful deed.
Life is made up of deeds which we do. Some deeds, we all
agree, are wrong and should be forbidden under pain of punishment;
other deeds, we all agree, are good. But between
those acts which are clearly wrong and those which are clearly
good there is a borderland of deeds which some people believe



to be good and others bad. We all agree, for instance,
that willful bodily injury to another person is wrong and
should be punished as a crime; we are not all agreed, however,
that selling liquor after eleven o'clock at night is wrong
and should be called a crime. What is regarded as a crime
in one generation is not so considered by another generation.
It was not deemed as a crime once upon a time to keep cows
in a filthy stable and poison little children by selling dirty
milk; but all enlightened states now make that a crime.
The state government declares what acts are to be deemed
criminal.--The very important task of deciding which of our
acts shall be treated as innocent and which shall be regarded as
wrong and criminal is left to the state. It is true, the federal
government may punish persons for interfering with the
mails and other national affairs, but it is the state that
fixes nearly all of the crimes and punishments. Every year
sees a long list of crimes added by the state legislatures to the
already enormous total. The citizen by his vote and by
his views of right and wrong therefore helps to settle these
questions.
The prevention of crime.--The prevention of crime by
fixing penalties and punishing offenders is a state affair, but
the application of the penalties is left to the local courts.
How is crime to be prevented? Of course we can all help
to prevent it by our conduct and by the expression of our
views in places where we have influence; but there must
be an organized way of dealing with crime, and that is intrusted
to the government. The old view was that the government
should prevent crime by watching out to see that
none was committed and by punishing criminals severely
enough to frighten other persons likely to commit similar
offenses. The prevention of crime by watching is of course
committed to the police in cities and to sheriffs and constables
in the country; and the way this service is performed
depends very largely upon the way in which the local

A

community--city, town, village, or county--regards the
enforcement of the law.
Two ways of looking upon punishment.--There are two
ways that the state may view the use of punishment to prevent
crime, for we no longer speak of punishment as mere
revenge. Nobody should want to take revenge on a criminal
unless it will benefit the latter or somebody else. The state
may say that harsh and brutal penalties are more likely to
frighten men than light and easy punishment, and certainly
fear of punishment is the only thing that will deter some
people from wrongdoing. Harsh penalties, however, may
be so severe that jurors will not convict the guilty, because
they think the penalty is too cruel, and thus criminals are
positively encouraged. The second view of punishment is
that the certainty of punishment for crime is the important
thing, rather than heavy penalties.
The right notion about punishment.--Our most progressive
states are now looking to the reformation of the criminal as
well as to his punishment. This does not mean that they are
growing merely tender-hearted and sentimental, but that
they are saying, "We should so arrange our penalties as
to help the prisoner to reform and become a decent citizen
if there is any good in him." They are proceeding along
certain lines, of which the following are the most significant:

Classification of criminals.--The young should be separated from
the old. This is done by having special reformatories for youths
convicted of crimes.
Indeterminate sentence.--Under this device the judge may say
to the guilty man, "I will not send you to prison for a certain number
of years, but will commit you for a period of from one to ten
years. If you conduct yourself properly in prison, you may go
free at the end of one year, and then if you conduct yourself properly
when you are let out, you may stay out. If, on the other hand, you
break your word while you are out, you must go back to prison."
Employment for prisoners.--It was an old-fashioned practice
for states to hire their prisoners out on contract to manufacturers



and builders at low wages. Thus prisoners were sometimes put
into competition with workingmen who had committed no offenses,
and actually took bread out of their mouths. Workingmen naturally
protested against this, and it is clearly wrong. Nevertheless,
prisoners should not be idle. Neither should they be forced to
work for nothing and then be turned out into the world at the end
of their terms without any money. Several states are now trying
to find useful employment for prisoners, and some states allow
them wages, which are turned over to support their families. The
new idea is that the prisoner shall be prepared in prison for an
occupation which, on his release, will enable him to be a self-supporting
and self-respecting member of society.   
                    
Education.--Although cities and towns have their own
school boards, and counties their supervisors, the kind of
education which is given in the city or country depends principally
upon state laws. The state may provide wretched
elementary instruction a few weeks in the year, or it may
establish a large and costly system beginning at the bottom
and running up to the state normal school and university.
The state may prescribe the amount of money which each
community may spend, or it may raise the total amount
itself by taxation and distribute it among the counties according
to population. The state may prescribe that the same
books shall be used in all of the public schools within its
borders, or it may allow the local boards to decide within limits
what studies shall be pursued and what books shall be used.
University extension work.--The state universities in
many Western commonwealths are extending their work
until they reach out into every community and become a
part of the local educational system. They do this by establishing
correspondence courses which students anywhere in
the state may pursue, by sending out teachers to give lectures
and instruction in local centers, and by forming traveling
libraries which may be sent about from village to village
according to demand. These universities are at the same
time endeavoring to reach the citizens who are unable to



come for regular terms, by establishing "short courses" in
the winter which may be taken by those who can spare only a
few weeks, and by conducting summer schools, particularly
for teachers engaged in the winter.
The university is giving attention to the practical arts.--The
modern ideal of the university is not only to cherish and
spread among the people the wisest and best that has been
thought out in science, literature, politics, and morals, but
also to develop those practical arts and sciences which will
help the people to do their daily tasks more easily and more
intelligently. For example, the University of Wisconsin will
send a lecturer to a community to talk about American poets
or what a village may do to improve its appearance, or it will
point out to a farmer what careful experiments have proved
to be the best way to blast and pull stumps.
Agricultural and engineering colleges.--Agricultural and
engineering colleges are established either in connection with
state universities or separately, and they are not content with
giving regular classes at the places where they are located.
They also give special short courses to help those who can
spare only a few weeks. They organize the farmers of the
counties into "institutes," at which experts discuss the best
ways of doing farm work and improving the amount and
quality of the produce. Some of them even run corn, wheat,
or dairy trains throughout the state, giving exhibits of what
intelligent selection of grain and stock can do to increase the
wealth of the country. They give extension instruction at
factories and workshops, in modern science and in expert ways
of drafting, using fuel, applying electricity, and so on. They
cooperate with local schools in giving courses of study which
will help men and women to do the work which falls to them
with the most ease and skill--to prepare them for a life of
power instead of messy ignorance.
Training teachers.--While providing education for farmers,
professional men and women, and artisans, the states also



attempt to improve education generally by maintaining
normal schools for the training of teachers. Some states
have established one separate and central school for teachers;
other states prefer to bring this professional training nearer
to the teachers by founding schools in two or more places;
and still other states, with great wisdom, solve the problem
by creating a teachers' college in connection with the university.
Health.--The health work of the state government is
two fold,--curing and preventing. The state maintains
asylums for the insane, the deaf, dumb, blind, and other
defectives, and within recent years several states have established
sanatoriums for tubercular patients. Wisconsin, for
example, not only has such a sanatorium, but endeavors to
secure a chain of them throughout the commonwealth by
granting state aid to the counties for this purpose.
The prevention of disease.--The great increase in the number
of insane and diseased has driven our states into giving
more care to the prevention of ills. This is now attempted
(a) by enacting laws which forbid the sale of unwholesome
foodstuffs, and  (b) by providing for officers to inspect
places where people live and work with a view to destroying
insanitary arrangements. In progressive states, the sale of
adulterated foods and drugs is forbidden, the defiling of
streams from which water supplies are taken is prohibited, the
providing of a certain amount of air and light in factories and
tenements is required, and exhausting work by women and
children in factories is more and more proscribed. The
determination of what foods and drugs are adulterated with
harmful materials is a difficult task which falls in part upon
the state and local health officers, and, as we have seen above,
in part upon federal officers (pp. 181, 203). If the officers
are too strict, they may interfere with lawful manufacturing,
and if they are too liberal in their decisions, they may help
to poison their fellow-citizens. Health work, therefore,



requires a very high degree of scientific skill and a more than
ordinary amount of good judgment and honesty.
The state government and poverty.--Nowhere in the
world, perhaps, is the spirit of charity more strongly manifest
than in the humane institutions maintained by the governments
of our states. The county poor farms and asylums
are supplemented by state institutions for dependent soldiers,
orphans, the deaf, dumb, blind, insane, and other persons
unable to take care of themselves. Beautiful buildings are
erected, millions of dollars voted, and skilled men and women
employed in order to relieve suffering and to help the needy.
It is true, there are sometimes scandals connected with our
asylums, and superintendents are frequently found to be
guilty of neglect and brutality; but the amount of high-
minded and generous service to the poor and unfortunate
which is given in many of our states is a tribute to our
kindly intentions if not to our wisdom.
The modern idea of "preventing" poverty.--However, as
in health work, so in charity, the prevention of poverty is
better than providing generously for the wrecks of poverty.
We are just beginning to understand the fact that poverty
is a sort of disease which we can materially reduce, if not
eradicate altogether. A great deal of poverty is due to the
fact that many persons and corporations are getting, by one
method or another, more than their share of the wealth
which is produced every year ; for example, by charging unfair
railway rates, grabbing waterfalls to sell the power, seizing
public lands at a low price, or by paying low wages simply
because the poor must sell their labor or starve. How to
prevent any one from getting possession of property without
making any return at all to society is the biggest problem
before modern statesmen, and it is one to which we shall have
to give more attention as we seek to prevent pauperism and
disease.
Some specific causes of poverty.-There are many different





Photo by Underwood and Underwood.
                    
THE/hi> NEW YORK BREAD LINE
                    


 
                    


causes for specific cases of poverty. We may enumerate a
few. Thousands of people in the United States are unemployed
more or less of the time through no fault of their
own: on account of seasonal trades, failures and bankruptcies,
and financial crises. Again, a good workman may fall sick,
and in a few weeks his savings are gone and he finds himself
in poverty; or he may be injured at his trade or even
killed at it. Many families are poor because the fathers
have deserted them, either through despair of keeping the
wolf from the door or on account of shiftlessness. Other
families are poor because the father has been injured or
killed at work. But of course the chief cause of poverty
is due to the fact that millions receive wages which are barely
enough to keep families going in good times, and not enough
to meet extraordinary cares and hardships such as fall upon
most of us at some time.
The great war on poverty.--All over the world war is being
declared on undeserved poverty, and recently the Chancellor
of the Exchequer in England expressed the hope "that great
advance will be made in this generation toward the time
when poverty, with its wretchedness and squalor, will be as
remote from the people of this country as the wolves which
once infested the forests." What may be done in the future
belongs to prophecy, but we shall mention here some of the
newer laws that are being enacted by our state legislatures,
with a view to reducing the amount of poverty. As you grow
older, it will be your duty to study carefully the campaigns in
this new war on an old enemy of the human race--poverty.
Workmen's compensation.--Our enlightened states are
fighting the poverty which comes through the injury or
death of workmen at their trades, by workmen's compensation
laws, which provide that an employer must pay a certain
amount to any employee injured at work--an amount
graded according to the injury, and in case of his death to be
paid to the family. To make it easier for employers to meet



heavy charges, arrangements are sometimes made whereby
they may insure their employees against accidents just as they
do their property against fire and flood. Provision may be
made for the payment of a lump sum to the injured person, or
the payment of a weekly amount during a certain period.
England and Germany have gone so far as to insure against
disease as well as injuries. By such methods a great deal of
undeserved poverty is prevented, and many a workman who
would have been thrown upon society as a pauper on losing
an arm or a leg is given an amount which will help him keep
up some standard of life even though he cannot make full
wages any longer; and many a family which would have been
plunged into poverty on the death of the father in industry
is thus made more independent and self-respecting.
Social insurance.--Although none of our states has yet
made provision for compelling all persons to insure themselves
against sickness or old age, Wisconsin has made a
beginning by a law passed in 1911. A state board of insurance
trustees is created, and persons of small incomes are
encouraged to insure themselves against adversity and
poverty in their old age. By paying a small sum periodically,
any person may arrange to have an income of one, two, or
three hundred dollars a year on reaching the age of sixty.
Life insurance policies up to $3000 are also issued. No
expensive offices or solicitors are maintained, and the idea
back of the scheme is to furnish insurance on a safe basis at
exact cost. It is difficult, however, for underpaid wage
earners to contribute even a mite to such a scheme.
Mothers' pensions.--A great deal of poverty, moreover,
is due to the fact that widowed or deserted and needy mothers
with children are unable to take care of their offspring properly
and at the same time earn a livelihood for them. This
fact has led more than one-fourth of our states to pass
"mothers' pension acts," providing for the payment of
certain sums weekly to mothers in such condition--a sum


                    

                                        
Courtesy of National Child Labor Committee.                   
                    
 A VICTIM OF AN INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENT                    

                    

                    
Courtesy of National Child Labor Committee.  
                    
NIGHT WORK IN A GLASS FACTORY
                    






graded according to the number and age of the children.
This is not looked upon as a charity, but as a reward for
honorable service in rearing children; for we are coming to
look upon the rearing and proper care of children as a no
less noble service than the destruction of life on the battle
field. We are to have, as has been well said, "soldiers of the
cradle and the plowshare, no less than of the sword and
bayonet."
Minimum wage laws.--The discovery that a very large
share of the working people, particularly women and girls,
do not receive wages sufficiently large to maintain them in
comfort and decency has moved our state legislatures to
search for some remedy, and a few of them have enacted
"minimum wage " laws as a result. A minimum wage law
may be of two kinds. It may (a) provide for a board or
commission with the power to declare what is a fair minimum
wage in a given industry, but with no power to compel employers
to pay it; or (b) the law may either fix a minimum
wage in certain industries or authorize a board to fix and
enforce it. The minimum wage is at present in an experi-
mental stage; but it is a sign that there is a growing determination
on the part of the American public to set certain
standards in low paid trades with a view to reducing the
appalling poverty which afflicts those engaged in them.
Employment bureaus.--A part of the prevailing unemployment
is due to the fact that employers sometimes do not
know where to get workers and workers do not know where
to look for jobs. Wisconsin tries to bring the man and the
job together by establishing a chain of state employment
bureaus in the leading cities at which men and women seeking
work are registered free of charge and put into touch
with those in search of workers. Such a system has to
be managed with great care to see that employers do not
use it to get cheap labor and discharge their more highly
paid workers. It is clearly inadvisable for the state to act

American Citizenship

as a "strike-breaker" by furnishing laborers to take the
places of those striking for better wages or shorter hours.
In spite of the difficulties connected with managing such a
bureau properly, the Wisconsin system seems to have helped
thousands of working men and women out of employment
to get a new foothold.
The state government and trade unions.--While the
state government may thus help to cut down the amount of
undeserved poverty by positive laws, it may also indirectly
influence wages by the attitude which it takes toward trade
unions. A trade union is a combination of working people
in a given trade. The theory on which it is based is as follows:
Working men and women with no property must sell
their labor in order to live. If as individuals they bid against
each other for jobs, the employer is able to beat wages down
to the lowest offers. If, on the other hand, they unite, they
have more strength in dealing with employers and can
secure better wages and hours for all.
Trade unions and the law.--A big question for the government
to decide is: "What methods may trade unions use
to force employers to pay better wages or allow shorter
hours?" May they "picket" factories where strikes are
being held; that is, patrol the region and persuade other
persons from taking their jobs? May they "boycott";
that is, refuse to buy the goods made by non-union manufacturers?
May they hold meetings and make speeches
near the factories and bring everything short of physical
force to bear, to win the strike? When and under what
circumstances should the troops be called out to interfere,
and how shall they be employed when called out? Clearly
these are difficult questions which cannot be answered off-
hand. It is important, however, that this whole matter
should be carefully examined and that public officers
should be cautious in putting the military power above the
civil authorities in times of disorder connected with strikes.



General labor legislation.--The state tries to do by legislative
enactment many things which trade unions seek to do
by agreement among themselves. It is in behalf of persons
not organized into unions that the state government
interferes most. It may fix the number of hours which
children, over a certain age, and women may work in a day
or week. It may require owners of factories to put safeguards
about dangerous machinery, and to provide a cer-
tain minimum of light and air for their employees. It may
forbid altogether the employment of children below a certain
age and allow older children to work only in industries
not injurious to their health or morals. Even in the case
of adult men, the state may fix the hours in some employments
which are especially dangerous; as, for example,
mining and railroading. These laws have now grown to be
so numerous and detailed that it requires an expert to understand
them, and they are enforced by commissions in charge
of an army of inspectors who travel from town to town visiting
the establishments which come within the range of the
laws. For this work it is necessary always to have a sufficiently
numerous corps of officials. Occasionally a state
provides a larger force of officials to enforce fish and game
laws than to enforce laws passed in the interests of factory
workers.
The Wisconsin industrial commission.--The very grave
difficulty of making laws long and full enough to cover all
the multitude of problems raised in the various industries
induced Wisconsin to create an industrial commission and
give it the power to issue orders for this factory or that
according to the necessities of each case. This commission
may make rules for " the protection of the life, health, safety,
and welfare of employees in employments and places of employment
or frequenters of places of employment." Surely,
this is a large power to give to a body of three men, but if it
is used wisely, it may greatly increase the comfort and 



well-being of thousands of people. It is hardly necessary to remark
that this law is not based on the old doctrine that any
one has a right to work where and when he pleases, for
whatever wages he may choose to accept, and in any kind
of factory he likes, regardless of the effect of his conduct on
his own health and well-being and that of his family and his
neighbors.
The public control of business.--In the eye of the law
there are two kinds of business: that which is purely private
in character and that in which the public has an interest.
From time immemorial it has been held that "common
carriers," that is, persons engaged in carrying and handling
freight and passengers, are conducting a business which is
of a public character. Such a business, the lawyers have
said, it is proper for the government to regulate--that is,
to fix rates and charges and conditions of service. The
theory is that, if any person does not like his shoes, he can
go to another shoemaker, whereas if he does not like the
rates charged by a railway, he must pay them anyhow because
he has no other way to send his goods. Therefore,
it is proper for the state government, runs the theory, to see
that the rates of common carriers are reasonable.
State regulation of railways.--Of course this is just a
theory, but it is important in the law and on the basis of it
our states control freight and passenger rates. They do
this in several ways. A state may fix a "flat rate"; that
is, declare that a railroad shall not charge more than two or
three cents a mile for passengers; or it may provide that
railways having a certain mileage shall charge one rate and
other railways having a different mileage another rate.
Again, the state may create a board or commission similar
to the federal Interstate Commerce Commission (p. 180),
and give it the power to fix all rates and charges of
common carriers. More than two-thirds of our states have
railway commissions, but all of these boards do not have



equal power by any means. A few states have provided for
the " physical valuation " of the railways within their borders;
that is, they have ascertained the cost of constructing and
running the roads with a view to discovering what is a fair
charge to make for carrying freight and passengers.
The Wisconsin method of controlling railways.-- In order
to show the student just how the state attempts to prevent
railways and common carriers from charging rates which
are too high or from refusing to stop trains at certain stations,
furnish freight cars or switches, or do other things for the
convenience of the public, we print here a section from the
Wisconsin law controlling railways:
                    

                    
Upon complaint of any person, firm, corporation, or association,
or of any mercantile, agricultural, or manufacturing society, or of
any body politic or municipal organization, that any of the rates,
fares, charges, or classifications, or any joint rate or rates are in
any respect unreasonable or unjustly discriminatory, or that any
regulation or practice whatsoever affecting the transportation of
persons or property, or any service in connection therewith, are
in any respect unreasonable or unjustly discriminatory, or that
any service is inadequate, the commission [state board of three
men appointed by the governor] may notify the railroad complained
of that the complaint has been made, and ten days after
such notice has been given, the commission may proceed to investigate
the same as hereinafter provided. . . . If upon such investigation
the rate or rates, fares, charges or classifications, or
any joint rate or rates, or any regulation, practice, or service complained
of, shall be found to be unreasonable or unjustly discriminatory,
or the service shall be found to be inadequate, the commission
shall have power to fix and order substituted therefor, such rate
or rates, fares, charges or classification as it shall have determined
to be just and reasonable, and which shall be charged, imposed, and
followed in the future.


                    


The theory on which trusts are forbidden by some states.--
It is difficult for a person who is not a lawyer to see why a
railway is a matter in which the public has an interest, and
the shoe business, which may be controlled by a single trust


                    
(p. 188) or by very few manufacturers, is not. But the
distinction is made in the law, and when a state government
interferes with other than railways and "public
service corporations," it does so on another theory; namely,
" that all combinations in restraint of trade are illegal." It
is an ancient doctrine of the law that when two or more
persons in any line of business join in a scheme to injure a
third they have committed an unlawful act. On the theory
that "combinations in restraint of trade" are unlawful, the
courts may punish persons who join in an organization to
drive out competitors or to monopolize all of the business in
a certain line; and, to make sure that the courts will act on
this theory, many state legislatures have expressly prohibited
such combinations. Any concern which is engaged
in business solely within the borders of a state is entirely
subject to the laws of that state, but when it enters into a
general business in other states it becomes subject to the
laws passed by Congress under its power to regulate interstate
commerce (p. 180).
State laws about corporations.--Many kinds of laws are
enacted by our states for the purpose of preventing the
union of competing concerns into large corporations and
trusts. Of course, it is impossible to form a corporation
without the consent of the state government which issues
the charter to the persons joining in the corporation, and
go the state may lay down the terms on which such concerns
may do business. Some states forbid the directors of
one corporation to be directors in other corporations,--
that is, prohibit what is known as " the interlocking directorate,"
--a system by which a few men may readily get control
of a large number of different concerns. Other states compel
companies to sell their products in all parts of the state at
the same price, with the cost of freight added, so that they
cannot undersell competitors in one section and charge a
high price in another to make up the difference. In spite of



all of these schemes, the tendency to consolidate competing
businesses goes on steadily.
Good roads.--Until very recently, the building and repair
of roads were regarded largely as local matters, and left
to the care of the townships, counties, and other subdivisions.
The result was that the condition of the roads depended
upon the enterprise and intelligence of the community, and
no uniform and scientific plans were possible. But a few
years ago a new movement set in for "good roads." The
United States government, by establishing rural free delivery
only where reasonably good roads were maintained,
encouraged localities to make extensive improvements.
The development of the automobile, not merely for pleasure,
but also for business and transportation generally, led town
and city people to give more attention to the way the rural
communities kept up their roads. The telephone, rural
delivery, and automobile awakened the farmer to the value
of quick communication with the neighboring cities. Good
roads, moreover, increase the value of lands immensely:
a person dwelling ten miles from a city on a macadam road
may in fact be nearer than another person living only five
miles away on an unimproved road. Good roads encourage
the sons and daughters of farmers to remain in the country
because they make it possible to break the monotony of
isolated farm life by trips to town.
How state government may help in building roads.--It is
for these reasons that our states are going into the road
making business on a large scale, either by undertaking the
work themselves or by lending aid to the counties and local
communities. New York, for example, is building great
trunk lines in all directions and maintaining them out of
state funds. In addition to building state roads, about
three-fourths of the states have adopted a policy of lending
financial aid to localities; that is, of paying part of the cost
of certain roads if the locality will pay the balance. Illinois



operates a great rock-crushing plant by convict labor and
furnishes stone free of charge to counties which will pay the
freight. Other states furnish expert engineers and surveyors
to communities ready to improve their highways.
Why state aid is essential to proper road building.--The
entrance of the state into the road business has resulted
in wonderful improvements. Road making is a science, and
it cannot be mastered by an elected road supervisor of a few
weeks' experience. The state government employs highly
skilled men who devote their lives to highway engineering.
State roads, therefore, are likely to be constructed with
more care at the outset and maintained with more regularity
and skill when once built. By the system of state aid to
localities, the communities are encouraged to become enterprising,
and at the same time the best scientific training may
be enlisted in the work of constructing and repairing highways.
The state's natural resources.--A great many of our
states possess valuable forest lands and waterfalls from
which power may be developed. Up until recent years it
was believed by most of those who thought about the matter
at all that the state should sell or give away to private persons
all of its timber lands and waterfalls; but this view
of the matter is now growing obsolete. The state would
not think of letting any private person drive up to the
treasury and take away a wagonload of its money. Why
then should it permit any person to enter its treasury of
natural resources and help himself to power and timber
without making proper return? Gradually the states are
standing against the old policy of selling or giving away
power and timber, and favoring the retention and development
of these rich treasures for the public good. A state
may lease the use of these resources to private persons in
return for the payment of a stipulated rental, or it may
develop them itself by having state officers handle the timber



and sell the annual output and by building state powerhouses
and selling the power. Whatever policy is adopted,
the point is to prevent any private person from getting anything
from the public without giving its value in return.
How the state raises its revenues.--All these useful
services by the state cost money, and it must be raised by
taxing the citizens; but there are many ways of doing this.
In older and simpler days, when there were few great railway
and other companies and corporations, it was the
common practice to lay a tax upon every citizen within the
state according to the amount of his property, lands, houses,
money, jewels, and livestock.
The general property tax.--This was based upon the theory
that everybody ought to contribute to the support of the
state government just in proportion to the value of all his
property. A man who had ten thousand dollars' worth of
land should pay just as much as the man who had a store
worth the same amount, or money loaned out at interest.
The difficulty of taxing "personal" property.--The tax
looked fair enough and is in fact fair enough for a rural community,
but time has wrought changes in populous states.
A great deal of the wealth now is in stocks and bonds--
money invested in railways, manufacturing, mining, and
other concerns, and it is difficult to find out how much any
person is worth if he will not tell the assessor. He can lock
his bonds up in a strong box and no one can discover how
much he has. It is in this way that a great deal of
personal property escapes taxation altogether. This fact,
plus the fact that the expenses of states have grown enor-
mously, has led many states to look for new sources of
revenue, in place of relying solely on the general property tax.
The income tax.--Among these new sources is the income
tax. This tax rests upon the theory that a person's income
is the best test of his ability to pay. A farmer may have a
farm worth $5000 from which, by hard labor, he wins $1000


                    
gross income and yet he may have to pay a tax of $75 or
$100 a year, while a lawyer who owns no property whatever
may enjoy an income of $3000 a year and pay no tax
at all. Of course it is difficult to know the amount of a
person's income if he will not honestly tell what it is, but about
one-third of our states have an income tax. Wisconsin has
one of the most interesting income tax laws. It says: "If
you are unmarried and have an income over $800, you must
pay a small income tax; if you are married, you and your
wife need not pay unless you have over $1200 a year; if
you have children under eighteen years of age, we will
exempt you from paying tax on $200 for each child." Income
taxes are usually graduated; that is, the rate which
one pays increases with the amount of the income. In
Wisconsin one pays only 1 per cent on the first $1000 over
and above the amount exempt, and 6 per cent on a taxable
income over $12,000.
The inheritance tax.--A second new source of income is
the inheritance tax, which is imposed upon the property which
a person leaves to his heirs at his death. This tax is easier
to collect than the income tax, because, upon the death of
the owner, the estate must be settled in order that it may be
divided among the heirs, and it is thus possible for the state
officers to discover the exact amount which is left to the
heirs. A much larger proportion of our states have the in-
heritance tax than the income tax.
The tax on corporations.--A third new tax is the corporation
tax, or tax laid upon companies doing business within
the state. This tax is to be found in many forms. It may
be a tax laid upon the capital stock of the concern or upon
the net earnings or upon the gross earnings. This is one of
the most popular of the new taxes, because it is a kind of
indirect tax which does not come immediately out of anybody's
pocket. The people of the state which lays such a
tax often forget that Iany money collected from a company



doing business in the state must come out of the pockets of
the working people employed by it or out of the pockets of the
consumers who buy the products or travel or send freight
and express. A corporation tax is an easy way of taxing
ourselves indirectly.
                    

                    
                    Questions

 Name some ways in which the state government comes very
close to the people.
 On what subjects is there considerable diversity among the
states?
 What are the advantages and disadvantages of uniform
legislation?
 What is meant by crime? What are the most recent ideas
about treating criminals?
 What is the advantage of state control of education?
 Describe the health work of a progressive state.
 What is the attitude of enlightened states toward the very
poor?
 What are some of the chief causes of poverty, and which of
these are connected with politics?
 What relation does the government of the state bear to
wages ?
 What is the trend of state labor legislation?
 How do state governments affect business?
 What property may a state own and how may it be used?





                    
                    Additional Reading
 
THE REGULATION OF RAILWAYS: Reinsch, Readings on American
State Government, pp. 240-262; Beard, American Govenment,
pp. 724-732.
CONSERVATION OF STATE RESOURCES: Reinsch, pp. 262-292.
PROHIBITION OF LIQUOR SELLING: Reinsch, pp. 342-363.
THE COURTS AND CRIMINAL LAW REFORM: Reinsch, pp. 181-199.
INSURANCE AGAINST POVERTY: Seager, A Social Program.
STATE TAXATION AND FINANCE: Beard, pp. 706-720.
LABOR LEGISLATION: Seager, A Social Program; Beard, pp.
732-742.
A STUDY OF A PROGRESSIVE STATE: Charles McCarthy, The Wisconsin Idea.
                    
                    
                
                    

                                        




CHAPTER XVI
                    
HOW THE CITY GOVERNMENT SERVES THE
COMMUNITY
                    

                    
 What is the city?
                    
                    
                                        
 The city as it appears to the stranger.
 The residents' view of the city.
 A narrow view of city government.
 City government and the well-being of the people.
 What the citizen should care about in the matter of city
government.
                                        

                    

 The survey of the city.
                    

                                        
 What should be in such a survey?
 The value of such surveys.
 The most important thing in city government.
                    

                    

 Policing the city.
                    

                                        
 The police force.
 Policewomen.
 The question of proper treatment for criminals.
 New plans to help criminals reform themselves.
                                        

                    
                   
 The fire department.
                    

                                        
 Fire prevention.
                                        

                    

                    
 The city streets.
                    

                                        
 The planning and care of streets.
 Traffic in the streets.
 The anti-noise crusade.
                                        

                    

 Public utilities.
                    

                                        
 The franchises granted to public utility corporations.
 Forms of franchises.
 Regulation of utilities.
 Municipal ownership of city utilities.
                    

                    

 Guarding the health of the citizens.
                    
                    
 Pure air indoors.
 Pure air out-of-doors.
 Breathing spaces in the crowded city.


                    
 Pure food.
 Control of milk supply.
 Municipal markets.
 Municipal ice plants.
 Attacking disease directly.
 An outline of health work.
                                        

                    
                  
 Housing.
 Play and rest for city people.
                    

                    
 What the city can do to help provide recreation.
                                        

                    

 Education.
                    

                                        
 Newer features of our schools.
 Cooperation of the schools in government work.
 The extension of education in cities.
                    

                    

 City planning.
 Raising the money with which to pay the bills.
                    

                                        
 The single tax on the values of land.
 Making the budget.
                                        

                    

 Poverty in the city.
                    
                    
                                        
 The Kansas City Board of Public Welfare.
                                        

                    

 The new city program.
                    

                    
                    

What is the city?--If all students were asked to close
their eyes and tell what picture is called to their minds by
the word " city," no two pictures would be alike. Children
might have similar ideas about the words "state" or "nation"
or "country"; but for each of us the word city calls
up a different vision, the nature of which depends upon
where we live, how we live, where we walk or ride or play,
where we go to school, or what kind of work we do.
The city as it appears to the stranger.--The impression
which the city makes upon the outsider who visits it depends
upon what he seeks within its gates. The country resident
on occasional visits may carry away, above everything else,
notions of the gayety of the city, as a result of seeing the
bright shops, the amusements, and the throngs of people
along the brilliantly lighted streets. The stranger in search
of work will have quite another impression, particularly if
his search is long and fruitless. He will think the city is a




place of high prices, high rents, gloomy warehouses and
factories where gruff foremen repel those seeking work, and
dark, overcrowded tenements. Signs in the parks tell him
to keep off the grass, and the policeman is likely to arrest
him as a vagrant if he rests too long on a park bench. To
such an one, the city is a cheerless place, and the only evidences
of hospitality are at the municipal lodging house,
where he may stay for a few cents a day for a brief time.
The residents' view of the city.--As we have said, the city
does not mean the same thing even to all its residents; their
impressions likewise depend upon the section in which they
live, the income or wages they receive, and the work they do.
To the poor child, the city means the street in which he plays,
with a big policeman strolling up and down watching for mischief
makers ; the school which he attends; and his neighborhood
with the excitement when the fire engines are called out
or there has been a fight or some one has been run over by a
truck or automobile. To the child of wealthy parents, the
city is a place of beautiful parks, elegant carriages and carefully
groomed horses, well-dressed ladies, children's parties,
and beautiful homes. And as for the government of the
city, perhaps neither the poor nor the rich child has thought
about connecting the things that he sees with the mayor or
the council or the health officer or the crowds around the
polls on election days.
A narrow view of city government.--To the average person
the phrase, the government of the city, calls up a vision of
the city hall, an engine house, a hospital, the courthouse
and jail, a park, a school building, a policeman, and perhaps
a garbage collector. He does not think that there is much
connection between the city government and the dark alleys
and dingy tenements, the narrow and dirty streets, the
number of funerals of little babies and grown-up persons,
the hungry children in the schools, or the places of amusement.


                    
Nevertheless, there is a very deep and real relation
between the beauty, health, and happiness of the residents
and the government of the city.
City government and the well-being of the people.--It is
one of the purposes of the study of civics to show this connection
between the comfort and happiness of the city and
its government. If a city has beautiful parks, fine school
buildings, clean streets, no dirty back alleys, homes well
constructed and lighted, a small number of deaths each year,
decent and orderly places for the people to visit for entertainment,
courteous and industrious policemen, it is because the
voters and the city officers have worked together to reach this
result. If a city has splendid public buildings and filthy,
overcrowded back streets, fine drives for carriages and
automobiles and gloomy tenements for the poor to live in,
statues of poets and great men in the show places, and grim
death busily at work all the time in the back places, it is because
the voters are indifferent, and those who ought to
know better have very narrow ideas of what a city is and
ought to be.
What the citizen should care about in the matter of city government.--
It is because a great deal of our comfort and well-
being depends upon the government of the city that our
study of the subjects of civics must go beyond a bare description
of the elections, terms, salaries, and duties of municipal
officers. It is far more important to know the things which
have been done to reduce the death rate in the most enlightened
cities than it is to know whether the mayor's term is
two years or four. It is far better to know what can be done
to guarantee pure milk for babies than it is to know who
succeeds the mayor in case he should die or lose his mind.
When the citizen has an interest in making his city a cleaner,
more beautiful, and more healthful place for everybody to
live in; when he begins to inquire what has been done by
progressive cities along such lines, he will soon find out when




and how elections are held at which officers are chosen to do
the' Work. of city government. In fact mere descriptions
of the machinery of the city government are of little use
in teaching citizens their duties.
The survey of the city.-- No one can help wisely and
effectively, unless he has a rather accurate notion of what
needs to be done. For this reason, people are coming to
see the need of what is called a "survey" or a study of
the actual facts about the life and work of all the residents.
We now have several such surveys made by expert commit-
tees who have studied in detail the way the people of given
cities are housed, policed, and taxed, how their health is
safeguarded and their children are taught, what incomes they
have per family, where and how they seek amusements,
and what attitude the city officers take toward such matters.
It has been said that one-half of the world does not know
how the other half lives; but it is sheer stupidity or willful
ignorance to continue this state of affairs when it is possible
to have an accurate census of how all live and when it is at
the same time desirable because we all share the responsibility
for the present state of affairs.
What should be in a survey of a city.--A survey of a city
for the purpose of understanding the work which the government
ought to do should reveal the following facts:


                    
The number of families that have not more than the minimum
income necessary for a bare living and that have and can have no
savings.
The number of families that own their own homes and the number
that rent their homes.
The sickness and death rate by blocks and districts, taking into
consideration also the diseases and deaths caused by the industries
in which the workers are employed.
The kinds and causes of diseases in the city.
The sources of the food supply, and costs of transportation and
marketing.
The condition of the homes of the people as to light, air, cleanliness,
and comfort.



                    
                    
                    
A CHICAGO COURT FOR DELINQUENT GIRLS
                    
                    
                    





                    
                 
The number and location of the saloons, dance halls, and places of
amusement.
The amount of property the city now owns, its debt, the sources
of income, and present apportionment of income for municipal work.
The amount of overcrowding in homes and the congestion of
traffic in the streets, the street cars, and other means of transportation.
The amount and kinds of crime and sections of the city where it
occurs.
The number of children arrested each year and the offenses
charged against them.
The number of deaths per month or year caused by reckless
driving or lack of traffic regulations.



The value of such surveys.--It is from such surveys that
we have learned the necessity of including in the study
of civics other things besides the terms and elections of city
officers. When we discover that a very large proportion of
the residents of the great industrial cities (more than 90 per
cent in New York City) do not own homes, that a large
proportion do not have sufficient wages to cover the bare
necessities of life, that we are killing men, women, and children
by the thousands through neglecting public health work--
when we discover such facts as these we know that an election
means more than merely trying to find out whether the
candidate of one or the other party goes to our church or
voted our ticket ten years ago.
The most important thing in city government.--From
this point of view it is difficult to decide which topic
of city government should be taken up first. When the
newer ideas about the subject began to creep into textbooks,
it was customary to start with the old topics, such as police
control, parks, and fire protection, and to put in a few
sentences about health and housing at the end. But on
second thought we can see that it is more important that the
homes of the people of a great city should be light, airy, and
clean than that the boulevards should be paved or a bust of




a poet placed in the park. Again, the number of people
who might be assaulted if there were no police in the city
is probably small as compared with the number annually
killed by diseases which could be prevented. It is, therefore,
not our view of the importance of things, but respect for
tradition that leads us to begin with the older business of
city government and take up the newer things later.
Policing the city.--One of the duties of a municipal
government is to keep order within its gates. This seems
like a simple matter, but it isn't. If all the police had to do
was to catch and punish thieves, robbers, murderers, and
other grave offenders, their work would not be so difficult;
but we ask our police to look after our morals as well. Some
of us think that saloons should be shut on Sunday, and we have
this belief enacted into law. Then we charge the police with
the duty of enforcing it and go about our own business.
But thousands of people, including the saloon-keepers and
perhaps many of the policemen, do not think that it is immoral
to have saloons open on Sunday, and the saloon
keepers are willing to pay somebody handsomely if they can
open their back doors in spite of the law. This is where the
trouble comes in with the police--"graft," as we call it.
Those who cater to all kinds of profitable vices--drinking,
gambling, and the like - are willing to pay the police or the
politicians who control the police department, if they will
just shut their eyes. It takes extraordinary watchfulness
on the part of citizens trying to suppress vice to prevent
corruption in the police force. In fact, repeated failures to
suppress vice have led many wise persons to think of attacking
the problem by getting at some of the chief causes of
vice--overcrowding, low wages, inadequate recreation, poor
education, and feeble-mindedness.
The police force.-- Much depends, however, upon the official
police system. The modern police force in the more advanced
cities is organized somewhat on the following lines.


                    
    
The head of the department is appointed by the mayor or
elected by the commission (if the city has commission government)
and is made responsible for the conduct of the entire
force. The members of the force are chosen by the "merit"
system (see p. 133); that is, on the basis of a competitive
examination, and they hold their positions for life,
or during good behavior. The officers in the force are
selected by promotion from the ranks on the basis of meritorious
services. Pensions are sometimes paid to the men
who have served a long term of years on the force. By the
merit system an attempt is made to keep the police out of
politics; they do not get their places or hold them at the
pleasure of any political party; the city government may
change at every election, but the police force, like soldiers,
continues from year to year, obeying orders from the head of
the department. Of course, it does not work out exactly this
way in practice; but there has no doubt been a great improvement
over the old days when the whole police force went out
of office when a new party came into power at an election.
Policewomen.--Not very long ago, it was customary to
throw all arrested persons, men, women, and children, into
the same prison cells. In time, it was decided that children
should be separated from the " hardened " adult criminals,
and women were placed in separate cells. This was indeed
a great reform in its day. Recently we see the idea of policewomen
coming to the front; that is, of having uniformed
women patrol the streets, to arrest and look after girls
and women who commit offenses. We now have women
matrons at all prisons where females are imprisoned, women
probation officers connected with the courts, women police
in some cities, women jurors, and it is only a question of time
before women will be serving as judges, particularly in cases
where women and children are accused of crimes. In fact,
Chicago has recently established a court for delinquent
girls with a woman as judge.



The question of proper treatment for criminals.--Punishing
offenders against the law is quite as much a part of police
work as is arresting them. That is why municipal courts are
so important (p. 134). If judges are elected by popular
vote, the voter should give careful attention to the character
of the men standing for the office, and if they are to be 
appointed by the mayor, the character of the candidates for
mayor must be discussed in this connection. Wise, tactful,
humane, but withal stern, judges, can do a great deal to help
unfortunate persons charged with offenses. The old way of
fining offenders and shutting them up in jails because they
could not pay is now being discredited. If the judge understands
and sympathizes with the poor in their struggle
against serious obstacles, his decisions will be more enlightened
and fairer. Our lawmakers are now giving the
judges more freedom to apply the law in a different way to
different offenders as circumstances are shown to demand.
New plans to help offenders reform themselves.--Stealing,
for example, is an offense punishable by a certain penalty;
but it is clear that different treatment should be meted out
to the young person who commits his first offense from that
meted out to a case-hardened offender. A child who has
been denied proper advantages should not be put on the same
footing as a person who ought to know better; but unhappily
the reverse is too frequently true. After all, the idea of
punishment ought to be twofold: to protect innocent people
from wrongdoers, and to help wrongdoers to reform themselves.
For this reason cities are now adopting probation
systems which permit judges to place persons convicted of
light offenses under the care of probation officers connected
with the court, with a warning that any new misstep means
prison. Imprisonment should be a last resort used only
against serious offenders who are dangerous when free.
It is the proper business of a police court to inquire why
offenders have been guilty, what are the chances for reformation,


                    
   
                    
A POLICEWOMAN


                    

                    

                    
and what is the best thing to be done with the guilty
in order to help them reform. Cleveland, Ohio, and Kansas
City, Missouri, have city farms where certain prisoners are
sent, and are greatly helped by a healthful outdoor life.
This is evidence not merely of pity and sentiment: it is
the application of the principle of conservation to human
beings.
The fire department.--Fighting fire is now regarded as
a duty which every city must undertake at public expense.
In some cities of Turkey this service used to be left to
private parties, and any one who found his house on fire had
to run to a private company and drive a bargain for help.
In the smaller towns in the United States fire fighting is left
to volunteer companies which are supported at public expense
or by contributions from merchants and residents. In all
large cities, however, the volunteer company has been, or is
being, superseded by regular companies of firemen organized,
drilled, and always on duty, like soldiers in war time. It is
customary to select firemen by civil service rules (p. 133)
and cities sometimes give pensions to firemen who are
disabled or who grow old in the service. The wonderful
machinery which we have for fighting fires, and the courage
and skill of our firemen are the pride of our cities.
Fire prevention. - An ounce of prevention is worth a pound
of cure, and this applies to fighting fire as well as to war on
disease. Notwithstanding our fine fire-fighting systems, the
loss in lives and property from fires is larger in the United
States than anywhere in Europe. This is partially due to
the wooden buildings, carelessness in constructing factories
and houses, indifference on the part of those who handle
matches and inflammable materials, and to the ease with
which any property may be insured by the owner for large
sums.    Enlightened   cities now   have "fire   prevention
bureaus," whose business it is to investigate the cause of
fires, to enforce the law against those persons who are negligent



gent in guarding against fires, to inspect factories and tenements
and stores with a view to ascertaining whether every
precaution is taken. Something may be done also to prevent
the insurance companies from encouraging merchants to
insure their property for more than it is worth, for the practice
leads many to burn their goods to get the money.
The city streets. - Every city of any size has what corresponds
to a public works department, charged with building
and repairing streets, highways, parks, boulevards, sewers,
and bridges, and many of them have street cleaning departments
as well. How important this work is it is needless to
say. The street, as some one has aptly put it, is the vestibule
to our homes; it is a place where thousands seek amusement
and recreation; it is indispensable to traffic and business.
There are many things which the public works department
must do to make the street serve all its various uses
in a satisfactory manner.                  
The planning and care of streets.--In the first place,
streets must be well planned, wide enough to afford proper
air and light to the buildings and homes along them, and
laid out in such directions as to make it easy for vehicles
and pedestrians to go from one part of the city to another
with the greatest speed. They must be well paved with
material suitable to the purposes to which they are put--
heavy stone for those which are used for heavy hauling and
smoother pavement for those in the residential districts.
In building them, it is necessary to take into account the best
ways of flushing and cleaning them. They must be well
lighted for convenience and safety, as dark streets invite
both crime and dirt. Large numbers of workmen are employed
in this department, and the arrangement of proper
hours, wages, and conditions of labor generally is a serious
matter. It is clear that it takes a person of intelligence
and distinct qualities to head a public works department.
Certainly that person should be an expert, not one whose


                    
chief occupation has been sitting around political clubs
devising mere party schemes.
 
The anti-noise crusade.--The citizen needs protection also
from the noises in the streets, and it is now quite common to
prohibit by ordinance the unnecessary blowing of horns and
whistles and ringing of bells. Hospitals and institutions
for the sick may be specially protected. For example, a
New York City ordinance authorizes the marking of certain
streets as "hospital streets," and any person who is "guilty
of making any unnecessary noise or a failure to drive at a
speed not faster than a walk" on any of the streets so designated
is liable to a fine. In Cleveland, Ohio, the health
commissioner may establish "hospital zones of quiet,"
and persons who violate the law are punished.
Public utilities.--Cities of any size now have one or more
"public utilities" as they are called,--concerns that supply
to citizens necessaries and conveniences which are used by
all--waterworks, electric light plants for street and private
lighting, gas plants, street railways, sewers, and heating
plants. The money invested in such utilities in any considerable
city is enormous, and the income received from
them is likely to be many times the revenue of the city from
taxation. The rates charged, and the quality of the service




rendered (good water or bad, weak gas pressure or poor-gas),
are matters which affect all. People who do not care whether
babies die by the thousands (that is, other people's babies)
from impure milk supply, do care if their electric light bill
is too high or the water supplied to them is not wholesome.
There is likely to be more discussion, therefore, about public
utilities than about health, although of course health depends
in a large measure upon a pure water supply and proper
sewerage.
The franchises granted to public utility corporations.--Most
of the discussion in city politics about public utilities centers
around two questions: Shall private companies be allowed to
own and operate them, and if so, on what terms? Or shall
they be owned and operated by the city government? In
the beginning of our history it was customary to turn all such
utilities over to private companies, and, in fact, not much
attention was paid to the terms upon which they were allowed
to operate. The right to build and operate a utility--a
street railway, for instance--is called a franchise, and the
bare right is itself valuable, fof it usually implies that the
possessor may exclude other persons from competition. Such
a right may be sold to the highest bidder, or it may be granted
on condition that a fixed sum shall be paid yearly to the city,
or that a certain percentage of the earnings shall be paid.
Terms of franchises.--In addition to deciding on the
terms for the grant of the franchise it is necessary to make
some very strict provisions with regard to the operations of
the company under the franchise. These provisions in the
newer franchises usually include the following elements:

 Fixed amount of capital on which the company may
earn interest.
 Government supervision of all additional capital
expended, to see that it is actually used in making extensions
and improvements in the plant.
 Rates to be charged for services rendered--that is,


                    
for example, price per thousand feet of gas or fare for single
rides on the street cars.
 Wages and hours of workmen employed by the company.
 Public control of the street; repairs of streets used by
the company.
 Limitation of the franchise to a period of years.

Regulation of utilities.--While safeguarding the public
rights by very specific terms in the charters granted to
companies, it is now customary to provide for regulation
of their charges and services. Several cities have public
service commissions to regulate public utilities, and in some
states, as in New York and Wisconsin (p. 235), such concerns
are regulated by state commissions. This work of
regulation and supervision requires expert management on
the part of the cities.
Municipal ownership of city utilities.--More recently
the notion has been gaining favor that the city should not
grant these valuable rights to private companies, but should
itself own and manage some or all of its utilities. Municipal
ownership of electric light plants and waterworks especially,
is now quite common, and a few cities, San Francisco,
for instance, are experimenting with municipal ownership
of street railways. Private companies seeking valuable
rights from cities and attempting to escape regulation have
been mixed up in politics a great deal, and not a little of the
corruption in our cities has been due to these public utility
corporations. Enormous sums of money have been made
also out of private ownership of city franchises. For these
reasons there is a growing sentiment on the part of the
public in favor of municipal ownership. The chief objection
to it is the difficulty of management which such large
enterprises involve, and it is clear that when a city attempts
municipal ownership it must be prepared to undertake a
businesslike administration.



Guarding the health of the citizens.--We have spoken
of the way in which the city government protects the lives
and property of its citizens against criminals and fire. It
seems reasonable to every one that this work should be done
by the city; but criminals and fire are not the most dangerous
elements with which the city dweller has to contend. Impure
air, impure and insufficient food, insanitary homes, exhausting
or dangerous work, and the absence of facilities for rest
and recreation affect far more people injuriously than do
criminals and fire. If the city government should give
attention to minor matters, should it not consider the
greater as well?  Cities are rapidly answering this question
in the affirmative, and are doing considerable work in safeguarding
the life and health of their citizens against the
more subtle enemies of mankind.
Pure air indoors.--Pure air is a matter of public or governmental
interest. A person cannot breathe pure air if he is
compelled to labor in a factory where there are so many
people at work that there is not enough air space for all, or
if he is compelled to live in a tenement where the rooms are
small and dark, or to breathe coal smoke from chimneys
or germ-laden dust from dirty streets. For every criminal
lurking in a dark place to strike down an unwary pedestrian,
a million disease-germs lurk in every corner, ready to bring
pain and suffering, and perhaps death. Progressive cities
are now controlling the air supply by laws providing for the
proper building of houses and tenements, so that there may
be a minimum amount of air space around and in the buildings,
and a certain number of windows according to the use
to which the rooms are to be put. The state government
helps also by regulating and inspecting factories (p. 233).
In some instances the height of buildings is limited, with a
view to preventing dark streets and sunless homes.
Pure air out-of-doors.--Many cities have ordinances
forbidding factories to send out great clouds of coal smoke,


                    
and ordering the use of smoke consumers. Steam railroads
are forbidden to coal their engines in certain parts of the city,
and in time, no doubt, the unsightly, smoke-laden railway
terminal districts will all be changed for the better by the
general use of electric engines for bringing trains in and out
of cities. The dangers to health from dirty streets (to say
nothing of offenses against the eyes and nose) are leading
cities to give more attention to street cleaning--the removal
of garbage, ashes, and other wastes in covered wagons,
the use of water to flush and clean, and the employment of
regular forces of men to work constantly at the cleansing
of the streets. This also causes cities to give more attention
to pavements, for the smooth, well-kept street is more
easily and more cheaply cleaned than the rough street full of
holes.
Breathing spaces in the crowded city.--In the country,
it is likely to be a person's own fault if he does not get pure
air; but in the cities conditions are different. A person
may have to dwell in a region all built up with houses and
factories, where his only breathing space is the narrow street
crowded with people. This makes it necessary for the city
to provide small parks scattered about within easy walking
distance of every home. These are far more essential than
great show parks, which are likely to be out of reach of the
great mass of the working population of the city. Recognition
of this fact is leading cities to require the reservation
of small parks in the new additions which are laid out, and to
buy and destroy houses in crowded districts so as to make
little breathing spaces all over the city,--"lungs," as they are
called. The park commissioner who is thinking more of
plotting and beautifying big parks than of making breathing
spaces in overcrowded areas is therefore behind the times,
and those who insist on having such park commissioners
elected or appointed are just about as guilty of offenses
against their neighbors as if they did bodily injury.




Pure food.--The law has long provided for punishing
the person who deliberately poisons another or steals from
him; but what about the manufacturer or merchant who
sells injurious foodstuff labelled as "pure" or takes money
from a purchaser for a commodity which is not as valuable
as it is represented to be? There used to be a rule,
"Let the purchaser beware,"--to the effect that any one
was himself to blame if he bought cocoa with brick dust in it,
thinking it to be pure, or if he was unable to tell the difference
between real silk and shoddy silk treated with tin to make
it stiff and rustling. Of course, only merchants would ever
think of devising such a rule, and now that the consumer is
thinking for himself he is demanding that the government
protect him from the dealer who poisons and cheats.
The health departments of live cities inspect food supplies,
and particularly milk, and, by cooperating with the state
and federal governments, which have pure food laws also
(p. 227), seek to protect the citizen against decayed, injurious,
and poisonous foodstuffs.
Control of milk supply.--In this war on disease, the control
of the milk supply takes first rank. Thousands of babies
die in our great cities every summer on account of impure
milk, and health departments are giving an increasing amount
of attention to this matter. Dairies from which milk is
supplied are inspected, and farmers are required to maintain
certain standards of cleanliness. In order to supply good
milk at a low price, New York City has organized a large
number of public milk stations at which milk of a known high
grade is sold. Cleveland, Ohio, has established a municipal
dairy, including two thousand acres of land and large herds
of fine cattle, and is now supplying tubercular and other
patients in public institutions with the purest of milk.
Municipal markets.--The city may help the consumer
get more food for his money as well as protect him against
adulteration. Professor King, of the University of Pennsylvania,


                    
                    
                    
Courtesy of New York Board of Health.
                    
A MUNICIPAL MILK STATION
                    

                    

                    
Courtesy of New York Board of Health.
                    
FOOD INSPECTION


                    

                    

                    
found by a painstaking investigation that the increase
in the price which the consumer paid over the amount received
by the producer was from 73 to 105 per cent for butter,
from 150 to 200 per cent for blackberries, 266 per cent for
live poultry, 167 per cent for corn, and 150 per cent for
tomatoes. This increase in price over the cost of production
was largely due to the rates of transportation, market house
operations, and "middlemen's" profits. The increased
cost of living may be materially reduced by providing proper
market facilities, where the consumer and the producer
may be brought together, by reforms in our transportation
systems and terminals, and by proper systems for freight
carriage within the limits of the city. Many cities are now
trying earnestly to grapple with the problem of reducing
the cost of living by the provision of adequate marketing
facilities. The state of Washington recently passed a law
authorizing cities "to construct, acquire, and operate markets
and one or more cold storage plants for the sale and preservation
of butter, eggs, meats, fish, fruits, vegetables, and other
perishable provisions."
Municipal ice plants.--Not less important than safeguarding
food supplies is the matter of securing cheap ice in the
summer time. This is absolutely indispensable in the war
for the reduction of infant mortality. Some recent famines
and monopoly prices have made this problem very serious,
and a few of the cities are taking steps to make sure of adequate
ice supplies by constructing municipal ice plants.
Wisconsin has authorized (1913) all cities to construct and
operate ice plants, and it is only a question of time before
the supplying of refrigeration in the city will be deemed as
important as supplying water. In the contest against disease
it is a necessary instrument.
Attacking disease directly.--Our best city health departments
are attacking disease directly as well as indirectly.
They are looking after the health of school children, examining




their bodies to discover whether they are sound, and
suggesting remedies for ailments discovered. Some of them
have city dental rooms where the teeth of school children
are attended to. In connection with city hospitals there
are now visiting nurses who go into the homes of the
poor and give them personal instruction in the best ways of
recovering, if ill, or of preventing diseases. Certain cities
have instituted "clean-up days," when unsightly and unhealthful
rubbish is removed and destroyed; and in Detroit,
Michigan, it was recently proposed to make the "clean-up
day" continuous throughout the year. Inasmuch as large
numbers of tenements in great cities do not have facilities
for bathing, several municipal governments are building
public baths and swimming pools. It is perhaps better to
require tenement owners to put running water into each
apartment, and thus encourage the installation of more
private baths.
An outline of health work.--Mr. Brubre, in his instructive
book on city government, suggests that an efficient health
department in a well-governed city should undertake the
following work:
Supervision of infectious and contagious diseases, including
the keeping of a record of such diseases and a study of their
spread.
War against tuberculosis, including improvement of
living conditions, treatment of victims, provisions for those
unable to secure proper food, and public education on the
causes and spread of this disease.
Providing that all newborn babies and their mothers
have the proper medical care.
Medical and dental inspection of school children and
treatment of them.
The preparation of health exhibits for use in schools,
churches, and other public places.
Instruction in hygiene in the schools.


                    
Hospital treatment for the sick.
Sanitary 'control over food supplies and all public places
in which diseases may be spread.
The maintenance of public laboratories for the study of
diseases and their prevention.
The keeping of adequate health records so that one may
know where his city stands, as compared with other cities, in
the war against disease.
Housing.--"The Englishman's home is his castle," is
an old saying; but the great majority of the citizens of large
cities cannot call their homes their own or look upon them
as castles, either. More than half of the people of our
largest cities live in rented tenements or houses, and they
have little or no control over the condition of the places in
which they live. For this reason city governments are
interfering with the construction and management of rented
homes. Housing laws provide the way in which tenements
shall be built with a view to securing proper air space and
ventilation; they declare that the hallways and courts of
tenements shall be kept clean; and they arrange for the
periodical inspection of such places by public officers. In
Europe, the failure of the laws to secure proper homes
for the poor has led many great cities to tear down slum
houses and build and rent municipal houses. In Germany,
cities own thousands of houses and tenements which are
rented to those who cannot have homes of their own, and the
city is thus better able to say what shall be the condition in
which this property is to be kept.
Play and rest for city people.--Most adults and many
children have to work hard all of the time to make a living
and, to keep in fit condition for work and for health and comfort,
they must have rest and recreation. To meet this need
all kinds of private enterprises are established: saloons,
dance halls, moving picture shows, theaters, museums, and
the like. Many say that recreation is a private matter.



Those who know most about the needs of great cities, however,
say that it is not altogether a private matter; that the
city is interested in the amusement places which are maintained--
in whether they are wholesome or help to spread
vice, disease, and crime. For this reason, our cities are
taking more and more care of the recreation of their residents.
We can only enumerate a few of the ways in which the city
government can help provide wholesome recreation.
What the city can do to help provide recreation.--(1) It may
establish "recreation centers." Chicago, for example, has
created a number of small parks conveniently distributed
over the city. In each of these parks there is an outdoor
playground for all sorts of games; and there is also in each
one a large building with a gymnasium, swimming pool,
assembly rooms, reading rooms, and resting places. In
charge of the recreation there are competent directors whose
business it is to interest the people of their neighborhood in
wholesome play and to see that all goes off well.
(2) The city may establish social centers at the school
buildings; that is, have lectures, entertainments, debates,
games, and libraries for old and young.
(3) The city may build municipal auditoriums like that
in Denver, Colorado, at which high-grade entertainments
are given at a nominal charge, or even free.
(4) Games and music may be furnished in the public
parks.
(5) The city may establish and conduct moving picture
shows of high character, and control the private shows.
(6) The public schools may be continued through the
summer as vacation schools, at which recreation may be combined
with some intellectual development.
(7) The city, sometimes cooperating with private associations,
may build and maintain playgrounds at all crowded
centers.
(8) The city may establish municipal dance halls and


                    

                    
THE NEED OF HEALTHFUL PLAY               
                                        




                    

                    
provide for the very careful policing and supervision of
private halls.
(9) Where the city is located near large bodies of water,
it may reserve stretches of beach for public uses.
(10) The city may establish periodical fêtes, such as historical
pageants and "a safe and sane Fourth of July."
(11) It is now proposed in many places that the city should
have a playmaster as a regular municipal officer, charged
with the organization and direction of recreation.
Education in the city.--The public schools in the city
are gradually being made to do more to prepare the students
for the practical business of life and enable them to understand
about the useful and proper work of the government.
For the former purpose, our schools are giving more attention
to training students for various trades and occupations
and to finding out how they may make the best of their
opportunities. Thus we have courses in science, engineering,
mechanics, and domestic arts, while vocational bureaus
look after fitting the pupils into good positions when they
finish their work at school. For the latter purpose--enabling
the students to understand about the useful and proper
work of the government--more attention is being given to
the study of civics, as the art of helping others and ourselves
through the use of the government as a common agent of all.
Newer features of our schools.--In addition to the regular
work of classroom instruction, our cities are now developing
several new features:
Medical inspection and close supervision of the health of
children and the provision of the facilities for the remedy
of diseases.
Open-air schools for those suffering from lung trouble
or otherwise debilitated.
Vacation schools offering recreation and instruction to
children who would otherwise be playing in the hot, crowded
streets in the summer time.



Provision for school lunches at a low price or free to all
children. More than seventy cities now serve such lunches.
We realize that it is useless to attempt to teach children
who are hungry.
Coöperation of the schools in government work.--A great
deal of unnecessary work must be done by the government
simply because the citizens are ignorant or will not cooperate.
If the people would live and work in the proper way and
demand proper living and working conditions, it would not
be necessary for the government to do so much inspection
and prevention work and pay out so much for repairing damages
done. In order to make the citizen alert on questions
of city government, the following matters should be brought
carefully and impressively to the attention of students in
the schools:
The city death rate: what causes it to be so high, what
steps are taken to reduce it, and how may we all help?
Fires in the city at a terrible cost of life and property:
how we may help to reduce the number.
Pure food: how may it be guaranteed?
Crime in the city : how far is it due to lack of proper recreational
and educational facilities?
Public and private hygiene: what can we do to make the
city a cleaner place to live in?
The slums: is it necessary that there should be such places
in cities?
The unemployed: what can the city do to help in hard
times?
These and many kindred matters are proper subjects to be
discussed and thought about in every city school in the whole
country.
The extension of education in cities.--Another striking
development in our municipalities is the extension of education
beyond the confines of the schoolroom to citizens
of all ages and classes. This is illustrated in the establishment


                    
of a public lecture system like that built up in New
York under the direction of Dr. Henry M. Leipziger.
According to this plan free public lectures by authorities
in science, history, economics, civics, and other fields are
given at various centers scattered throughout the city, and
the young and old are afforded an opportunity to continue
their pursuit of knowledge indefinitely. This institution
is popularly known as "the People's University." A few
of our cities, like New York and Cincinnati, have municipal
colleges in addition to the regular public schools. Nearly
everywhere night schools are conducted for those who cannot
attend in the day time, and opportunities are afforded
for business and technical training. Foreigners are also
helped to acquire a knowledge of the English language.
City planning.--In discussing the various things which a
city may do, we have seen how many of them are closely
connected. Health, for example, depends upon clean streets,
pure water, pure air, proper food, and upon well laid out
streets and sanitary houses. It is because all of these things
depend in a large measure upon the "layout of the town"
that many leaders in city government are turning to "town
planning"; that is, establishing public control over the
general plotting and building up of the city with a view
to securing easy transportation, wide streets, airy homes,
city markets, and a sufficient number of public parks.
We now have a national association of experts who meet
annually to consider this big problem, and many cities have
city planning commissions to which is given more or less
power in deciding what streets shall be laid out and how,
what parks shall be established and where, and similar matters.
The great danger in city planning is that too much
attention may be given to the "show places"--the parks,
public buildings, and main streets - and too little attention
to the back streets and alleys, where the vast majority of the
people live.



Raising the money to pay the bills.--All these various
enterprises, which the city undertakes, cost money, and the
city must secure it from the citizens by taxing them, or by
engaging in the supply of water, gas, electricity, or some
other commodity. It must come from the citizens, that is
certain. The most of it comes from direct payment of taxes.
Each citizen's property is assessed--that is, a value is put
upon it by public officers--and he is compelled to pay into
the city treasury an amount proportioned to the value thus
established. That is, if a person owns $5000 worth of property,
and the rate of taxation is 2 per cent, he pays $100
into the treasury; a person with $10,000 worth pays $200,
and so on. The city also gets money from licenses such as
liquor and taxi-cab licenses, special taxes on businesses of one
kind or another, fees and fines, revenues from public utilities
such as waterworks and electric light plants. If a person
does not own property, he pays taxes none the less, though
he may not know it. He must rent a place to live in, and in
his rent money he pays a part of the tax which the owner of
the house must pay.
The "single tax" on the values of land.--Recently our
cities have begun to consider a new variety of tax known
as the "single tax" which is laid heavily upon the value of
the land. For example, a lot in the center of a city increases
enormously in value as the city grows, no matter what kind
of building is on it. There are instances of lots selling for
a few dollars when a city is small and for millions when
the city has grown to larger proportions. Now this increase
in the value of the lot is not due to any work which
the owner has done, or any building which he has erected,
but solely to the growth of the city--the building of factories
and homes all about it. The advocate of the "single
tax" believes in abolishing all other taxes, and taking this
increase in the value of land in the form of a tax. Many
who do not believe in the single tax as a theory approve the


                    


Courtesy of Bureau of Municipal Research.
               
AN EXHIBIT SHOWING THE CITY AS A FARMER               
                                       
                                        





                    
idea of raising more and more revenues from taxes on land
values, and reducing the taxes on buildings and improvements.
It is held that the man who builds or does something
for the community should not be taxed as high as the
man who merely sits and watches his lots increase in value.
Making the budget.--The determination of how the money
raised by the city shall be spent is a really fundamental matter.
It is called "budget making," and it generally falls
into the following stages:
The furnishing by department heads of the estimates for
the work of the several departments, fire, health, police, etc.
The tabulation and arrangement of the several estimates
and their organization into a budget by the proper authority:
the board of estimate and apportionment in New York City,
the mayor in Boston, and in some cities the finance committee
of the council or commission.
Hearings on the estimates at which citizens, taxpayers,
and associations may speak in favor of or against certain
specified expenditures.
The final vote on the estimates by the city council or
commission, turning them into an appropriation law.
From the citizens' point of view the hearings on the
budget are essential, for this gives them a chance to express
their opinions on proposed expenditures and to advocate
appropriations for beneficent public purposes.
Poverty in the city.--Owing to the low wages paid in many
industries and the large amount of unemployment which
exists, a very considerable portion of the inhabitants of
cities are in poverty. Formerly, the relief of the poor was
turned over to private charities supplemented by doles
from the public funds, but cities have now begun to consider
seriously what they may do to reduce the number of
their poverty-stricken inhabitants.
The Kansas City Board of Public Welfare.--Kansas City,
Missouri, recently established a Board of Public Welfare



charged with the duty of studying the condition of the people
of the city and providing remedies for evils of all kinds,
laying " emphasis on justice before charity and on prevention
rather than cure." This board manages a municipal
pawnshop which has put the "loan sharks" out of business;
it conducts a legal aid bureau to which the poor may turn
for legal aid in the protection of their rights; it maintains
a quarry to give employment for unemployed men; it
has helped thousands of families to make themselves self-
supporting and self-respecting; and it has studied every
social problem created by city life. It is attempting to fight
poverty rather than to relieve its victims. This is only one
manifestation of the growing determination of cities to establish
decent conditions of life and labor within their
borders.
The new city program.--In our survey of the work of
progressive cities we see that the matters now receiving the
earnest attention of thoughtful men and women may be summarized
as follows:
                    

                    
Control and regulation of public utility companies to prevent
stock watering, unfair charges, and poor services.
Provisions for meeting the grave problems of unemployment.
Healthful recreation to afford pleasure and reduce vice.
Playgrounds for children.
Breathing spaces in small parks.
Proper homes for renters.
Taxation of land values.
Municipal ice supply.
Markets and cost of the transportation of food supplies.
Pure food and inspection.
Milk supply and public milk stations.
District nursing systems.
Medical inspection of school children.
Open-air schools.


                    
Vocational training.
Suppression and prevention of diseases.
Adequate hospital services.
Public safety for pedestrians and working people.
Proper treatment of prisoners.
Juvenile and women's courts.
The appointment of policewomen.
Suppression of "loan sharks."
Public sanitation and hygiene--waste disposal and street
cleaning.
Comprehensive city planning.





                    
                    Questions
                    
 Give a description of some city you know.
 What is a city survey and what subjects may it cover?
 What is the relation of a city survey to a city government?
 What problems are involved in the policing of a city? What
reforms have recently been made in police work?
 What work is done by a fire prevention bureau?
 How do the streets of a city affect the lives of the people?
 What is meant by the public utilities of a city? Name
some of them and state which you regard as most important.
 What is meant by municipal ownership and why is it
advocated?
 In what way is pure air a government matter?
 How does a progressive city attack disease?
 What is the object of housing laws?
 In what respect is recreation a public matter?
 What is town planning and what mistakes in it are often
made?
 How does the city finance its undertakings?
 What is the single tax?
 What is a slum and what causes it? How far can the city
go in abolishing it?





                    
                    Additional Reading
                    
THE POLICE WORK OF THE CITY: Beard, American City 
Government, pp. 158-189; Bruere, The New City Government, pp.
263-313.



                    
PROTECTING PUBLIC HEALTH: Beard, pp. 261-286; Bruere, pp.
314-334.
HOUSING REFORM: Beard, pp. 287-310.
MAKING THE BUDGET: Bruere, pp. 171-204.
THE STREETS OF THE CITY: Beard, pp. 242-260; Bruere, 233-262.
RECREATION IN THE CITY: Beard, pp. 334-355.
MUNICIPAL OWNERSHIP OF UTILITIES: Beard, pp. 218-241; King,
The Regulation of Municipal Utilities, pp. 23-55.
REGULATION OF MUNICIPAL UTILITIES: Beard, pp. 190-217;
King, pp. 3-22; 75-98; 185-207.
TAXATION AND FINANCE: Beard, pp. 129-157.


                    
                  
                

                    

                    
                    CHAPTER XVII
                    
THE WORK OF RURAL GOVERNMENT
                    

                    
 The interest of country people in state and national politics.
                    
                    
                                        
 How the country is connected with the city.
 How rural regions are dependent upon one another.
 Rural districts are at the mercy of great corporations
unless the government interferes.
                                        

                    

 The rural survey.
 The building and repair of roads.
 Local option on saloons.
 Educational activities.
                    
                    
                                        
 The union of school districts.
 New ideas in educational work.
 Helping children choose their life work.
 The education of adults.
 The circulating library.
 The schoolhouse as a community center.
 The importance of good school boards.
                                        

                    

 Recreation.
                    

                                        
 Play for village and country boys and girls.
                    

                    

 Village public utilities.
 The punishment of crime.
                    

                                        
 After the prisoner has served his term.
                    

                    

 The care of the poor.
 Improving country districts.
                    
                    
 The good example of the schools.
 The use of the power over fire hazards to clean up villages.
 The use of the health law to improve villages.
 The "clean-up week."
 The improvement of farms.
 Fighting ignorance and poverty.
                                        

                    







The interest of the country people in state and national
politics.--The people who dwell in villages, towns, townships,




or the rural regions of counties are apt to think that the
affairs of government affect them very little and that when
the roads are in fair shape and good schools are in operation,
there is nothing left for the citizens to think about. This
would be true if there were not close connections between
the great cities and the country districts; but as a matter
of fact there is scarcely a problem that the city faces which
does not in some way touch the country.
It may be said that we have laid altogether too much stress
on the differences between city and rural problems and have
separated them too sharply in our minds. The arbitrary
boundary line between town and country should be broken
down and the problems of government considered as a whole
rather than as municipal and rural.
How the country is connected with the city.--As big business
corporations in the cities, dairy companies and produce and
grain merchants extend their branches out into the country
to gather in the milk, eggs, and other products of the farm,
the farmer must take an increasing interest in what goes
on at the other end of the line. As the great wholesale,
mail order, and manufacturing establishments of the cities
reach out to sell the inhabitants of rural regions everything
from canned tongue to automobiles, country people assume
an increasing responsibility for the conditions of the working
people who produce these goods, or at all events they are
compelled to think of the sanitary arrangements of the factories
in which the food they buy is packed and the clothes
they wear are made. And all this trading between the
city and country means an enormous freight business, and
high rates may add to the cost of what the farmer buys,
and cut down his profits on the things he has to sell.
How rural regions are dependent upon one another.--Not
only are the country districts dependent in many ways upon
the cities; the several rural regions of the United States
are linked up with one another, as each tends to specialize



in certain kinds of agriculture. For example, New England
farmers are to a great extent dependent upon the West for
corn and wheat, because they are themselves engaged in
dairy farming and tobacco raising. The whole country
relies largely upon California and the Southern states for
citrus fruits. Cane and beet sugar regions depend upon
the national market, and, one may add, upon the national
tariff. In other words, no country district is self-sufficing;
each becomes increasingly involved with other districts in
the exchange of produce of one kind or another.
Rural districts are at the mercy of great business corporations
unless the government interferes.--So far as the government
has anything to do with business, the control of trusts, the
regulation of railway rates, the tariff, and money, the people
of the country are necessarily deeply concerned with national
and state politics. Even such simple matters as railroad
crossings and highways are not wholly within rural control.
A railway company will pay little attention to the complaints
of a village about a dangerous crossing; the village must
look to the state for relief. The village cannot force a railway
to build a switch for the convenience of shippers; it
must look to a state railway commission for help in such
matters. The highway which connects the farms surrounding
the village is no longer a local road, but is very probably
a part of a chain of highways constructed at state expense,
wholly or in part. A large proportion of the farms are mortgaged;
at some periods in our history certain states have
had as high as two-thirds of their farms mortgaged, and a
considerable portion of the mortgages are held in cities.
Thus it comes about that the farmers are deeply affected
by the monetary system; particularly are they anxious to
prevent an appreciation of the value of money or a depreciation
in the prices of farm produce with which in the
last analysis their debts must be paid (p. 212). For the
purpose of advancing their interests the farmers have often



formed parties and unions such as the Populist Party and
the Grange and the Farmers' Alliance.
The rural survey.--Country districts and villages have
plenty of important local problems of their own, and it is
time that they were making surveys similar to those which
are being undertaken in cities. Such rural surveys may
very well include:
                    

                    
A study of the amount of money raised by taxation
for local purposes and the ways in which it is disbursed, with
special reference to economy and the proper use of the public
funds. County governments are usually about as corrupt
as city governments, but they are not so often overhauled.
A study of the roads for the purpose of discovering
whether the work now done is done wisely and economically,
whether new main and branch lines should be built, and
what regions are not properly connected with the towns and
other districts.
 A study of local resources with a view to finding out
whether new and profitable enterprises may not be established.
 A study of illiteracy and the work of the schools in
relation to the work done in the most wide awake sections of
the country.
 Amount of crime, and nature and causes thereof.
 The amount of poverty and the best methods of helping
the younger generation of the poverty-stricken to lead
useful lives.
 The number of saloons, amount of liquor sold, and
effect on crime and poverty in the community.
 The foreigners in the region and what is being done to
make intelligent citizens of them.
 The improvement of recreational life for the community.
Ways and means of bringing the people together
in service and play so that they may be taken out of the
deadly monotony of drudgery or loafing.




                    

                    
Courtesy of The American City.
                    



                    
Courtesy of The American City.
                    
                    
GOOD AND BAD ROADS




                    
 The farms, and whether enlightened methods are
used by the farmers to make the most out of their land.
 The labor of farm workers, women and children.
 The death rate and causes of disease, as compared
with other similar communities.
 The amount of waste and neglected land and the
state of the timber lands.
 Freight and passenger rates to and from neighboring
communities.


                    
By a study of these and kindred questions new light will
be poured in upon the problems of country life, and local
patriotism in favor of improvement and advance on all lines
will be aroused. This would react upon the cities, for a
considerable portion of the congestion in the cities is due to
the monotony and drudgery of country life which drive the
people to the towns.
The building and repair of roads.--It is the business
of the township, town, or county to look after roads and
bridges. In the country, good roads add greatly to the
comfort and intelligence of the inhabitants, for they can go
about more readily and keep in touch with new ideas and
improvements. In many regions, the roads are largely
kept up by farmers who "work out" the road tax which is
laid upon them, and in such cases their chief interest is often
merely in "putting in the time" rather than in constructing
and maintaining good roads. Moreover, not being expert
surveyors and road makers, they frequently do poor jobs
indeed. Here the state government often steps in and provides
that, in case the local community will pay a certain
amount toward a good road, the state will pay the rest and
employ experts to lay out and build the road. The "good
roads movement" throughout the country depends largely
upon the enterprise of the state. The state is also slowly
looking after dangerous railway crossings and compelling
railway companies to provide means for crossing over or
under their tracks.



Local option on saloons.--In a great many states, the
township, or village, or county, as the case may be, is given
the power to decide whether it will have saloons or not,--
local option as it is called, - and is given the power also to
make minor regulations about the hours of closing saloons.
This is an important matter, and an ever increasing number
of villages or rural regions are voting saloons out altogether.
Of course, this does not stop drinking entirely, but it is believed
that it removes temptations from the young. At all
events, it is thought to work for the well-being of the people,
or it would not be so widely adopted. In several common-
wealths state-wide prohibition has been adopted because it
is difficult to stop the sale of liquor in one village if a neighboring
village allows it.
Educational activities.--The management of schools is
in a large part left to the village or township or district as
the case may be; but as we have seen (p. 225) the state
does a great deal to bring about certain standards so that
the most backward rural region cannot fall too low in the
scale. To the local community is given the task of electing
the school trustees or school board and of deciding what
kind of building is to be erected and, within the limits of the
state law, the kind of instruction that is to be given. Thus
the community can decide whether the children are to have
merely the bare rudiments required by law or are to have
the advantages of special training in high schools, technical
schools, and schools of applied arts and sciences. How
important all this work is becomes apparent when we remember
that more than one-half of our people live on farms and
in villages of less than 2500 inhabitants.
The union of school districts.--The limitations of the little
red schoolhouse, with one room overcrowded and one teacher
overworked, are now being recognized. It is a custom in
several states to combine a number of districts so that larger
buildings can be secured, and several teachers, each somewhat



what a specialist in some line of work, employed. Where
this is done, wagons are provided for carrying the children
to and from school. High schools as well as graded
schools are made possible in this way. This helps to make
the country a more satisfactory place in which to live, for
parents are not compelled to leave the farm or little village
to give their children excellent educational advantages.
New ideas in educational work.--Our rural schools in
advanced communities are now rivaling those of the most
progressive cities. It has been found that country children
suffer from defective eyes, bad teeth, and other bodily ills
which handicap them, and that medical inspection is just as
necessary for them as for the city children. We are beginning
to feel that the old rudiments of learning--reading,
writing, and arithmetic--and the new rudiments of culture
added in the high schools--Latin, literature, botany, and
history - do not meet all of the demands of the country
regions. People are therefore beginning to ask for more of
the applied arts and sciences which will make more skillful
farmers, workmen, and housewives, and in response to this
demand courses in the science of agriculture and in domestic
science are being offered in the country schools on somewhat
the same principle that manual training and domestic
science are taught in city schools. The idea behind this
new work is not to turn the boys into mere farmers and the
girls into mere household drudges, but rather to prepare them
to do their work well so that they may have more leisure for
the cultivation of the gifts of mind and heart, which is the
chief end of life.
Helping children choose their life work.--Coupled with
this newer training is what is called vocational guidance which
is intended to help the children and parents in selecting
occupations. There are differences of taste and abilities
among children, and it is important not to get a round peg
into a square hole, as the saying goes. Our country schools



are therefore beginning to consider seriously whether they
have done their whole duty in giving the children a set
course of "book learning," without making any inquiry
into the work which the children will probably have to do in
life or into the opportunities offered to them in the immediate
neighborhood or the distant city.
The education of adults.--The idea that the country school
may be used for the education of adults as well as children
--the idea which has led to extension lectures and social
center work in cities (p. 263)--is now finding its way
into rural communities. State universities in the West
are doing a great deal to bring this about. They send out
lecturers on agricultural problems, domestic science, health,
village improvement, and kindred matters, as well as literature
and social science; and extension courses are given
in rural schools. In a few states, provisions are made by law
for the organization of voluntary farmers' associations in
the counties for the purpose of arranging with the state
university or agricultural college for systematic instruction
in all manner of farm problems. By this method, the best
that is being done at the higher institutions of learning may
be made more or less available to the people of the most
distant farming region. If a community sits in darkness today,
except in the most inaccessible mountain regions, it is
in a large measure its own fault.
The circulating library.--The circulation of good literature
helps the rural community in a quiet way, and the
schools may encourage this. When the community cannot
afford to have a library of its own, the school library may be
used for general purposes. Several states recognizing the
need in rural regions for good books have provided "circulating
libraries" put up in boxes to be sent on application
to towns and villages and country schools. These boxes
contain selected literature - fiction, history, biography,
science, applied science, agriculture, and art--and they




                  
Courtesy of National Child Labor Committee.                  
                    
                    
IN THE SOUTHERN COTTON FIELDS TO-DAY      
                    



                    


are kept circulating about the state from community to
community as they are demanded. Where the village has a
library of its own, the managers may stimulate interest in
the latest and best books by lectures, entertainments, and
debates.
The schoolhouse as a community center.--In fact, there is
now a strong movement in favor of using the country and
village school building as a center for all kinds of public
activities. In some communities it is used for polling places
at elections and for political meetings. There has been some
objection to political meetings on the ground that party feeling
may lead to quarrels; but those who favor using the
schools for this purpose reply that if one of the purposes
of education is to train men and women in citizenship, there
ought to be no objection to the discussion of the issues of
politics in the schoolhouses. Furthermore, all political parties
are given equal rights, so that there need be no charges
of favoritism. Ohio recently invented the slogan "a light
in every schoolhouse," which expresses the hope that the
schoolhouse in rural regions may become a social center like
the city schoolhouse.                    
The importance of good school boards.--When we think of
all the good work which the village and rural schools can
do, and often achieve, we realize how important is the selection
of the county superintendent of education, the school
boards, and district school supervisors. We see also how
important it is that the officers and teachers of the schools
should be well paid so that those who think of becoming teachers
can afford to give the proper time and attention to their
preparatory training, and so that quick and intelligent men
and women may find the teacher's career at least fairly
remunerative.
Recreation for country people.--There is as much need
for decent and healthful recreation in the country and small
villages as in the cities. "All work and no play makes Jack a



dull boy," is an old adage; and it may be added that all work
and no play makes men and women dull too. In thousands
of villages and country regions there are now no common
meeting places except the corner stores, the streets, or the
saloons. The churches are open only on Sunday and the
schools are closed at night and most of the summer months.
The saloon is the one place where the men can sit down and
laugh and talk or play games, and the women and girls have
only the streets. To meet this very grave evil, enterprising
school boards are using the schools as recreation centers.
They are providing rooms for games and dancing, halls for
meetings, entertainments, lectures and debates, gymnasiums
open all the year round for boys and girls. A new county
high school in a stirring Western community has a large
auditorium, a kitchen and dining hall, a gymnasium and
swimming pool, a workshop, and several small rooms for
reading and for games.
Play for village and country boys and girls.--The whole
problem of recreation for the young boys and girls in villages
and country regions is almost, if not quite, as serious as in the
cities. Gangs of "tough" boys develop in the village, and
girls go wrong there just as in cities. The play of boys and
girls needs to be looked after by experts quite as much as
their education. This can be done in connection with the
schools by the employment of regular directors who plan and
organize the games and supervise the various activities in
such a way as to prevent rowdyism and stimulate honorable
competition. Of course it is not meant that all should
engage in athletic contests, for those having a talent for
music may be organized into a special club; others with
more studious inclinations may be formed into dramatic
and debating societies; those of a practical turn of mind
may be grouped into "corn clubs" or "applied science
clubs." Thus the intellectual life of the young may be
stimulated immensely. When neighboring villages have


                    
organized their play, inter-village contests may be held,
encouraging the spirit of friendly emulation and adding
diversion to the life of the young people.
Village public utilities.--Villages of fifteen hundred or
more inhabitants have some of the public utility problems
(p. 253) of the large city, if only in miniature. They must
provide for lighting their streets at night, and if they are
spirited enough, they will have public water works and
sewers. If the village undertakes to own and manage its
own plants, the voters must be alert to see that the town
officers charged with looking after these affairs do their
work well. If the village engages private companies to
build and manage the plants, the voters must be watchful to
see that the right terms are made in the first place and that
exorbitant rates are not allowed. In those states which
have public service commissions (see p. 234), the village may
rely upon the commission to secure proper rates and services
from its public utilities.
The punishment of crime.--Villages and counties have
some of the problems of crime and poverty to deal with,
although not on as large a scale as the cities. Officers must
be elected to punish those who break the laws, and jails
must be provided for those who are sent to prison. Far
too many of our country jails are not fit for human habitation,
and inasmuch as those who are sent to local jails are
usually sent for only a short time and then set free again,
the community for self-protection - if for no higher motive
--cannot afford to let the jails be dirty and insanitary.
Whether prisoners turn out well or badly when their service
is over depends not a little upon the character of the sheriff
or constable or local officer in charge of the jails, so that the
selection of these officers is an important matter. Many
of our villages and counties may learn a great deal from the
newer practices of city courts in criminal cases (p. 250).
After the prisoner has served his term.--A prisoner who is



turned out of jail at the end of his term penniless and perhaps
far from his home is very likely to steal or commit
some trespass before he settles down, and thus get back into
jail within a short time. The necessity of looking beyond
the term of the jail sentence to the problem of setting the
offender on the right path is just as imperative in the country
as in cities. It is even more important in a way, for in the
cities criminals naturally gravitate to certain centers, while
in the country those who have been to jail hang around the
village street corners and associate with the young and
innocent.
The care of the poor.--While the state helps by maintaining
state institutions for the insane, deaf, dumb, blind,
and other diseased and helpless poor, much of the support of
the poverty stricken who cannot take care of themselves or
have no one upon whom they can depend for help falls upon
the local government--the town, the township, and the
county. The local officers are sometimes empowered to give
outdoor relief; that is, furnish money or goods to the poor.
The county generally has its poor farm, which is too often a
wretched place where contractors and keepers make money
furnishing the inmates bad food and lodging. It is important
that the community should do all it can to help the unfortunate
to support themselves in a respectable manner,
and particularly to help their children out of the slough of
despond. Those who are incapable of looking after them-
selves should be provided reasonable comfort. It is necessary,
therefore, that rural communities should not neglect: in
any way the proper care of the poor; but it is far more
essential that all communities, the states, and the nation,
should address themselves to the great task remaining before
them of preventing undeserved poverty (p. 229).
Improving country districts.--Although state laws about
housing conditions do not usually apply in villages, and
village authorities have no power to order the improvement



of local property, there is no reason why many of our country
towns should be so hideous to look at and demoralizing to
live in. The American likes to think of his home, if he
owns one, as his castle, and to think that it is his own business
if it is insanitary, unpainted, weatherbeaten, and if his
yards, front and back, are full of weeds and rubbish. It
seems like an almost hopeless task to bring our villages
into artistic and sanitary condition - delightful to the eye
and pleasing to the moral sense; but beginnings have been
made.
The good example of the schools.--In the first place, the
idea of improving and cleaning up unsightly villages may
well begin at the schools. Teachers can help by emphasizing
the value of personal cleanliness, and the art of taking
care of the body and cleaning the teeth is becoming one of
the things taught in country as well as city schools. Personal
cleanliness leads to a desire to improve surrounding
conditions. Boys and girls who would be comely and clean
in body will not long be patient with dirty yards and homes.
The school buildings and grounds can be improved so that
they look like shining temples set on a hill, and they will be
good examples to the people who dwell around them. The
school may, therefore, be the center of public sentiment in
favor of more art in life, and when public sentiment is
awakened, a way will be found to improve the villages.
The use of the power over fire hazards to clean up villages.--
Then there are other ways of getting at the problem. Even
the stoutest individualist will admit that he has no right to
act in such a way as to endanger the life and property of his
neighbor. Almost every country village has a collection of
unsightly wooden shacks used for livery barns and storehouses
which are a constant danger as fire menaces. Several
states now have "fire laws" enforced by a state fire
marshal and local officers. It is possible under these laws
to order the destruction of such dangerous buildings, or at



least their repair, so as to reduce the fire hazard. Thus by
an indirect method local improvements may be brought
about.
The use of the health law to improve villages.--Then there
is the health law. Nearly every village has a local health
officer whose business it is to prevent the existence of insanitary
conditions within his jurisdiction. He can order
weeds cut and yards cleaned up and drainage improved; but
he is usually a neighbor of the offenders in these matters,
and hesitates to make enemies of them. It is a good thing
to have the state officers look in upon villages occasionally
and force the local officer to act. Fair and just enforcement
of the health laws would remove many an eyesore from our
villages.
The "clean-up week."--There has recently been invented
a new institution known as "clean-up week." The village
or town officers, or a committee of public spirited men and
women may begin it. It is a voluntary affair, but that
does not make it less effective. The local officers may start
by putting the streets and sidewalks and public squares into
proper shape, and this invites the cooperation of private
citizens. During a clean-up week, the town or the committee
of citizens furnishes wagons which go about from
house to house collecting all of the rubbish and hauling it
away to be burnt; front and back yards are cleaned, weeds
are cut, and flowers are set out. Sometimes prizes are given
for the best yards, and seeds and bulbs are distributed by
the committee on public improvement. There are many
instances of little towns and villages being absolutely transformed
under the stimulus of clean-up weeks. Self-respect
once awakened is likely not to disappear altogether.
The improvement of farms.--Tumble-down farm buildings
and slovenly, neglected farms present a more difficult
problem. There is no way of compelling a farmer to put his
property into trim shape, and farmers, like other people,



are naturally quick to resent any interference with their
ways. Some states force them to cut the weeds along the roads
which run past their property and to keep their fences in
such shape as to prevent their stock from getting out. Where
the farmer supplies milk to a neighboring city or village, the
dairy inspector has the right to order him to fix up his barns
and clean up his stables so that the milk which he sells may
not be dirty or impure. The death rate among farmers'
children could be materially reduced by the proper supervision
of the ways of handling the milk, or better, by educating
men and women in the country in the science and art of
healthful living and working.
Fighting ignorance and poverty.--The best way to improve
backward country districts is to fight the chief causes of their
backwardness--ignorance and poverty. These two causes
run closely together. The poor man is handicapped in his
struggle for education and the ignorant man who does not
know how to make the best of his opportunities is likely
to remain poor. The more fortunate communities must
help the backward communities by extending to them educational
facilities, and they should at least give the children
opportunities to find out better ways of living and working.
Through the granges and other farmers' societies, the more
progressive farmers may help their less fortunate neighbors
to help themselves. The federal government is now studying
the problem of "agricultural credit" with a view to
lending farmers money at a low rate of interest so that they
may be encouraged to improve their farms and their modes
of living.
                    

                    
Questions
                    
 What interest should country people have in city conditions
and affairs?
 What interest should city people have in country conditions
and affairs?



 What interest should country people have in state
government?
 What interest should country people have in the national
government?
 What things should a rural survey include?
 What is local option?
 What are the advantages of combining school districts in
the country?
 What are some of the new ideas in educational work in the
country?
 Describe some possibilities of the rural schoolhouse as a
social center.
 Why does recreation need to be organized to some extent in
villages?
 What are the public utilities of a village?
 What is the value of improving the outward appearance of
villages, and how may it be done?
 What are the main causes of the backward conditions of
rural communities?
 What are the advantages to a community of good roads?
 How can the rural voter help to improve his community?
                    



                    
Additional Reading
                    
RURAL SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY: Ward, The Social Center, pp.
302-323; Gillette, Constructive Rural Sociology, pp. 47-56.
ADVANTAGES AND DISADVANTAGES OF RURAL LIFE: Gillette, pp.
57-76.
IMPROVEMENT OF RURAL PRODUCTION AND BUSINESS: Gillette,
pp. 77-109.
IMPROVEMENT IN MEANS OF COMMUNICATION AND TRANSPORTATION:
Gillette, pp. 110-122.
RURAL HEALTH AND SANITATION: Gillette, pp. 147-167.
MAKING FARM LIFE ATTRACTIVE: Gillette, pp. 168-183.
THE SOCIALIZATION OF COUNTRY LIFE: Gillette, pp. 184-263.
RURAL CHARITY AND CORRECTION: Gillette, pp. 264-279.
RURAL SOCIAL SURVEYS: Gillette, pp. 281-292.


                    



                    

                    
CHAPTER XVIII

THE GOVERNMENT AND PUBLIC OPINION
                                        

                    
 How the government directly affects public opinion.
                    

                                        
 Citizens' associations and government officers.
 The budget exhibit in cities.
 Government reports to the citizens.
 Complaint bureaus.
 The school as a molder of public opinion.
 Civics in the schools and public opinion.
 How private societies teach the government officers.
 The public library and public opinion.
 The education of citizens in campaigns.
                                        

                    

 Private agencies which create public sentiment.
                    

                                        
 Public opinion made up of individual opinions.
 Telling the truth in newspapers.
 Newspapers influenced by their advertising.
 Associations which help to educate the public.
 "Manufacturing" public opinion.
 Woman's part in government.
 Churches as civic centers.
                                        

                    






How the government directly affects public opinion.--The
kind of work the government undertakes and the way in
which it does its work depend, in the ordinary course of
events, almost entirely upon public opinion; that is, upon
what the people think about political matters. If they do
not think at all about public affairs, the taxes are likely
to be wasted, the streets dirty, the roads unimproved, the
gas poor in quality, the schoolhouse badly ventilated and
lighted.  If they do think about matters of common
interest and join with their neighbors in using the ballot



wisely and in bringing pressure to bear upon public authorities
they may help immensely in improving the world in
which they live.
Citizens' associations and government officers.--There was
a time when it was thought that the citizen's duty ended
when he cast his vote at the election, and eighteenth century
statesmen resented the formation of clubs to influence
public opinion as a meddlesome interference on the part
of private persons. In our day all this has changed. At
the present time the citizens, through special associations
for child labor legislation, purification of milk supply, municipal
improvements, prevention of waste in taxes, reform
of police administration, and innumerable other purposes
stir up sentiment about particular matters, invite the attention
of public officers to desirable reforms, and cooperate
with the public authorities in carrying out good work
for the general welfare. In many city and state governments,
the officials welcome the cooperation of voters where
it is not merely captious but genuinely helpful. At all
events, officers cannot ignore the demands of large societies
of private citizens, for often those societies employ experts
who know as much or more about government than the public
officers themselves. Thus it has come about that what the
citizen does and thinks between elections is as important as
what he does at elections. Government is a continuous
affair, not a periodical spasm, and the citizens' interest and
watchfulness must be continuous.
The budget exhibit in cities.--City governments are
recognizing this vital truth in many ways. One of the most
striking has been the introduction of the budget exhibit
designed to show in a picturesque manner the amount of
money raised by taxation and the various purposes to which
it is put. Charts, placards, photographs, models, and plans
represent in a graphic form how much money goes for
education, health work, police, and other branches of government


                    

                                        
Courtesy of The People's Institute.
                    
MASS MEETING IN COOPER UNION, NEW YORK
                                        
                                        




                                        
                                        


ment, and also what kinds of work the several departments
do. At such an exhibit departments asking for a larger
appropriation show in what way they would spend the
increase. Wherever a city establishes a budget exhibit,
thousands of citizens, including school children, visit it, and
thus come to take a more active interest in the affairs of the
city government. In some cities, city planning exhibits
and exhibits illustrating other branches of civic work are
held to enlist the interest of citizens and enlighten them
on affairs of high importance.
Government reports to the citizens.--For the benefit of the
public it has long been customary for government officers
to issue reports showing the work of the chief departments.
Too often these reports are dry and stupid documents containing
tables of figures and ill-digested facts. Gradually
the possible educative feature of such reports is being recognized,
and not long ago the mayor of Cincinnati selected an
editor of city documents whom he instructed to make the
official reports both intelligible and interesting. Quite a
number of cities now publish periodical journals containing
information of a practical character about the conduct of
city affairs. In 1913 New York City began the publication
of an annual Yearbook describing the several branches of
the government of the city, the powers and duties of each,
and explaining what departments are responsible for particular
tasks. In some cities, the finance department issues a
little book showing how much money is collected in taxes
and for what purposes it is spent. Gradually public officers
are realizing that it is desirable to keep the public in touch
with all phases of municipal government.
Complaint bureaus.--In order to bring the government
into contact with private citizens, it is a growing custom to
invite public officials to speak at mass meetings and explain
their policies and answer questions concerning their conduct
of public business. Some cities have organized a "complaint



bureau" at which any citizen who has a grievance against
the city administration may lodge a complaint and obtain
a hearing. Through this bureau city officers learn about
many cases of neglect and wrongdoing which would have
otherwise never come to their notice. If a gas main leaks,
the water pressure is too low, the pavements are neglected,
and ash cans are not emptied, the citizen can reach the proper
authority by telephone.
The school as a molder of public opinion.--The schools
are becoming more and more centers of information on affairs
of government. Maps of the city, township, and county
now find their place among the maps of Greece and Rome.
Students are encouraged to make surveys of their immediate
neighborhood, often with a view of reporting to public authorities
about conditions which need remedying. City reports
and documents and papers begin to appear on the shelves
beside the textbooks on history and science. A knowledge
of the government as an active concern from day to day is
being spread among the people through a thousand channels.
Civics in the schools and public opinion.--In fact, the
schools may become real centers for the formation of public
opinion on governmental affairs. The regular instruction
in civics is now being supplemented by talks by local officers,
county judges, mayors, street commissioners, aldermen,
and other public servants, who explain the nature and duties
of their respective offices. They do this not merely to satisfy
the curiosity of the pupils, but to educate them and to interest
them in municipal matters which affect them as present
citizens and future voters. In some cities, students are given
problems of government to work out, such as: Which streets
are kept clean and which are neglected? Who is responsible
for broken pavements? Where are street lights out
which should be burning? Can the chemistry department
of the high school find out whether the city water is pure or
the milk furnished by the local dairymen up to the standard?



The schoolhouse should have over the door that new slogan,
"Good citizenship first," and the prime requisite for good
citizenship is knowledge of and interest in affairs of government.
Good citizenship, like charity, may very well begin
at home.
How private societies teach the government officers.--Public
authorities are constantly learning from private associations.
The chairman of a labor legislation committee will be invited
to help in the drafting of a labor law. A useful undertaking
by a private organization is sometimes taken over bodily by
the public authorities. For example, a few years ago a
private society was founded in New York City to supply
pure milk at a reasonable price from several stations scattered
throughout the poorer districts. This work was found to be
so excellent, that the city government assumed the management
of the stations and provided the funds from the
public treasury.
The public library and public opinion.--Public libraries
are agencies for bringing the government and the people
together. A few cities, Chicago, for instance, have established
civic reading rooms in which are placed reports and
documents containing information on the work of the city
government and books dealing with problems which affect
the citizen. In some cities, lectures are given in the
library building by city officers and experts in municipal
affairs; auditors are permitted to ask questions; and lists
of books and pamphlets are distributed for the purpose of
encouraging citizens to study more carefully the work of the
government.
The education of citizens in campaigns.--Finally the political
campaigns are, or may be, employed to educate citizens
on questions of public policy. Of course, there are campaigns
and campaigns. The old notion of a campaign was a sort
of general debauch in which speakers villified one another,
lies and false rumors about candidates were circulated,



liquor was served free and in large quantities, brass bands
were employed to arouse indifferent voters, monster parades
and torchlight processions were organized to capture the
fancy of the childish, and in short everything was done to
confuse the citizens and leave the issues in a muddle. There
is plenty of that sort of thing now; but undoubtedly it is
rapidly declining in favor, and it will disappear when we have
an educated citizenship. The newer type of campaign is one
of education, in which issues and practical questions are
discussed and candidates are expected to tell what they will
do if elected rather than to recite the villainies of their
opponents. It all depends upon the voters. If they prefer
scandal to a reasonable consideration of the matters of government
which influence their lives and work so deeply, campaigns
of noise will hold the field; but if they are alert, intelligent,
and interested in real government rather than in
sham political warfare, they will demand that the campaign
be confined to an honest consideration of what the government
ought to do and how it may do what it undertakes.
Private agencies which create public sentiment.--So far
we have spoken principally of the official agencies for creating
public sentiment on civic matters. Most of the views
which we have about government, however, are not derived
from hearing public officers speak or from reading official
reports on the work of the government. On the contrary,
our views are derived from countless sources unconnected
with public institutions: from our associations at school,
at work, at social affairs of one kind or another, from the
newspapers, and from our daily intercourse with friends and
neighbors. Not many of our opinions are based upon a
painstaking study of hard facts. As Mr. Bryce says, "Every
man believes and repeats certain phrases because he thinks
that everybody else on his own side believes them; and of
what each believes only a small part is his own original
impression - the far larger part being the result of the 



commingling and mutual action and reaction of the impressions
of a multitude of individuals, in which the element of pure
personal conviction, based on individual thinking, is but
small."
Public opinion made up of individual opinions.--We are
therefore all makers of public opinion, men, women, and
children of a school age. When we see a person doing something
and we express to some one else our approval of his
actions, we are helping to make opinion. By approving or
disapproving something which the government does or neglects
to do, we are helping to create public sentiment on that
particular matter. By being indifferent to what goes on, we
encourage others to assume the same attitude, and thus contribute
to the general apathy which is the chief source of bad
government. Chance remarks dropped at school, on the
street corner, in the saloon, or at a social gathering all contribute
to that great stream of opinion which determines
the kind of government we are to have. School children who
ask their parents or neighbors thought-provoking questions
on civic matters help to arouse general interest. Women,
whether they vote or not, add powerfully to the sentiments
which influence the course of political events, by expressing
their views publicly and privately on matters that concern
them especially. They also frequently delay progress by
their ignorance and indifference.
Telling "the truth" in newspapers.--Naturally it is
given to some persons more than others to influence public
opinion - and perhaps newspaper editors and managers
are more powerful in that regard than any other group. It
is not only from the editorial columns, where editors give
expression to their own personal views, however, that we
gain our notions about current affairs. The news columns
are far more influential. Of course, newspapers are supposed
to tell " the truth " in the news columns; but there are
many ways of telling the truth. One may tell the truth about



the matters concerning which he writes, but he may create
entirely false impressions by omitting to tell of other truths.
The choice of topics to which a newspaper gives first place in
the news columns is fully as important as telling the truth
itself. The headlines which a newspaper puts to truthful
articles may be as misleading as bold lies. A newspaper
may encourage the public to take an interest in murders and
scandals by putting such stories on the first page, or it may ask
the public to consider more important affairs first by placing
them in greater prominence. For example, not long ago two
society women were killed in an auto accident one night, and
that same night fifty miners were killed by an explosion in a
mine. A newspaper in the neighborhood gave the same space
to both accidents, whereas the first was of slight public concern
and the latter was of fundamental concern. The citizen in
buying newspapers helps to, decide what kind of papers
shall be published, and so makes public opinion.
Newspapers influenced by their advertising.--The citizen
must bear in mind also that newspapers and periodicals are no
longer supported mainly by subscriptions, as was once the
case, but that they are dependent primarily upon advertising
or upon some group of persons willing to pay the bills in
order to have " an organ " to voice their opinions. Publishers
do not dare to offend too seriously their advertisers, and plenty
of examples of news suppressed or colored to please advertisers
are forthcoming. For instance, a few years ago an
association of citizens held a meeting in support of a law then
pending in the legislature requiring store owners to furnish
seats for their employees when not engaged in waiting on
customers. At the meeting competent speakers described
the evil conditions prevailing in a number of great stores,
mentioning them by name. The reporter wrote a true story
of the meeting, but his city editor struck out the names of all
the big store owners who advertised in the paper, and the
readers of the paper gathered the impression that it was only



a few obscure shops that kept their women employees standing
on their feet eight and ten hours a day. Again, not long
ago a large store owner in a city was indicted and fined for
fraudulent advertising and, notwithstanding the prominence
of the party, the newspapers were discreetly silefit, while
they gave plenty of space to a wretched vagrant who had set
fire to a small shop in the hope of securing some booty.                                       
Associations which help to educate the public.--Next to the
newspapers in their influence on public opinion may be placed
the various private associations which deal with matters of
civic interest: playground associations, farmers' granges,
legislative associations, municipal leagues, city clubs, women's
societies, and the like. Some of the societies, like the Association
for Labor Legislation, are formed to secure enlightened
and humane laws on particular matters, or to see that laws are
properly enforced when passed. Other associations, such as
legislative committees, are designed to watch the state and 
local lawmaking bodies and to turn the light of publicity on
measures about to be passed or defeated by the legislature or
town council or county commissioners, as the case may be.
The Citizen's Union of New York City, for example, maintains
at the capital of the state a trained expert who studies
all bills introduced which affect the City, and reports to the
Union on them. If any particular measures deserve support
or condemnation, in the view of the Union, it organizes a
large public meeting for the discussion of the matter, and
thus helps to make public opinion. Indeed, associations for
influencing public sentiment are among the striking features
of current civic development.
"Manufacturing" public opinion.--Like all other institutions,
they may be used against public welfare, as well as for
it. An instance of the way in which public opinion may be
"manufactured" for private purposes was afforded not long
ago in a great city where the extension of street car lines was
under discussion. A street car company which was interested



in gaining a certain franchise selected a prominent
politician and gave him about a quarter of a million dollars
to " accelerate public sentiment." He organized a Citizen's
Association in the portion of the city involved in the affair,
and got up public meetings in favor of the company's
demands, incidentally disbursing a large sum of money among
influential persons. In the midst of so much clamor for his
attention, it is not surprising that the citizen is sometimes
bewildered and unable to form sound judgments.
Woman's part in government.--In the organization of
citizens' associations designed to focus public opinion on
particular matters, the participation of women is a marked
characteristic. Women are among the leaders in all beneficent
and humane enterprises which help to make our
cities more beautiful places in which to live, and to improve
the common lot of those who do the world's work. Following
the example of the men, the newly enfranchised women of
several of the western states have formed civic clubs for the
investigation and discussion of public questions of every
kind. In other states where women do not have the ballot,
they are likewise active in civic affairs. A woman's municipal
league in one of our large cities recently reported the following
program:
Campaign for pure milk, including rigid inspection.
Encouragement of the men in the street cleaning service by
the distribution of medals and money prizes.
Erection of free ice-water fountains in the congested portions
of the city.
Campaign of education among housekeepers to improve
sanitary conditions.
Investigation of moving picture shows and cheap amusement
places.
Financial aid and committee service for the investigation
of amusement places of girls not reached by settlements and
churches.



Establishment and maintenance of playgrounds for
certain overcrowded districts.
Churches as civic centers.--In this general civic awakening,
churches are also taking part. Many of them have
"social welfare services" charged with studying, discussing,
and reporting on all manner of problems arising in our
modern industrial life. Others open their assembly rooms for
the consideration of all the questions of contemporary politics
which pertain to the welfare of the people. Thus they seek
to make real and useful those sentiments of humanity
which are the finest products of religion.
                                        
                                        

                    
                    Questions
                    
 What determines the character of a government and its
work?
 What kinds of citizens' associations do we have?
 What are some of the ways in which a government may inform
the citizens about its work?
 What is a complaint bureau?
 How may the school become a center of public opinion?
 How may civics be made a vital subject of instruction ?
 How may private societies educate government officers?
 What kinds of political campaigns may we have?
 How does each one of us help to make public opinion?
 How may newspapers distort the truth?
 Under what influences are newspapers placed?
 How may public opinion be "manufactured"?
 What can you say of woman's part in government?




                    
Additional Reading
                    
PUBLIC OPINION AND ITS CAUSES: Bryce, The American Commonwealth,
Vol. II, pp. 251-655.
THE CITIZEN AND HIS GOVERNMENT: Bruere, The New City Government,
pp. 376-400.
THE WORK OF A VOTERS' LEAGUE: Ward, The Social Center, pp.
43-68.
DELIBERATION IN POLITICS: Ward, pp. 19-42.
MODERN METHODS OF PUBLICITY: Allen, Woman's Part in Government,
pp. 103-130.
                    

                                        

                                        

                    
                    



                    
                    RESEARCH QUESTIONS
                    

                    
CHAPTER I
                    
Name some of the things which each person can do for himself
without receiving aid from any other person.
What are some of the ways in which each must depend upon
others for help?
Why is it better for the government to punish criminals and
other offenders than for the wronged persons or families to avenge
the injuries themselves?
Can you think of any cases in this country of families undertaking
to avenge injuries done to them?
Mention some way in which the government of your town or city
restrains your right to do as you please.
Mention some way in which the government of your town or city
gives you liberty or protection.
Name some of the absolute monarchies of to-day and explain
the nature of such governments.
In what way has democracy changed the purpose of government?


                    

                    
CHAPTER II
                    
Where is each article on a well-supplied breakfast table produced?
How many different persons may take part in supplying a breakfast
table?
What countries are mainly agricultural?
What countries are mainly industrial?
What are the grain producing areas of the United States? Fruit
growing areas? Sugar areas? Lumber regions?
From what regions do the raw products for clothing come?
Where are your clothes made?
Where are toys made?
Do children work in the factories which make any of these
things?
How many different kinds of houses do you know about?



If you were managing a home how would you apportion the
income : what proportion for rent; for food; for clothes; for
education; and for recreation ? Would you spend money for other
things?
In what ways does family life in the United States to-day differ
from family life in Washington's day?
What are the striking features of modern machine industry?
What persons besides the owners are interested in the way factories
are run?
What is the capital and labor question?
In what ways does modern business require action on the part
of the government?                    


                    


CHAPTER III
                    
Do you know any family where the mother is the breadwinner?
Why is she?
Do you know any little children who must work to help support
the family? What are their parents doing?
How old must a child be in your state before it is allowed to work
in a factory?
Are there any laws in your state about newsboys, messenger
boys, cash girls in stores? Why?
What different kinds of families do you have in your community?
What do your parents do for you unaided?
What does the government do for you?
What is a family "budget"?
What keeps a family together?
What breaks up families?


                    

                    
CHAPTER IV
                    
What are some of the ways in which public officers protect you
against bodily harm?
How many policemen are employed in your city?
How many firemen? Are they volunteers?
Why are streets kept clean?
Why are persons sometimes arrested for holding meetings?
What is a libel suit? Have you ever heard of one?
Do you know how many persons were arrested in your community
last year? How could you find out, if you did not know?



How many different religious sects are there in your community?
How. many newspapers come into your home every week? Do
you take any papers which are not partisan in character?
What kind of men serve as jurors in your community?
Do you know of any petitions being circulated in your community?
For what purposes?
If you had committed a wrong would you rather be tried by a
judge or a jury? Why?
Do you think every person should be allowed to say what he
likes?
Do you believe that books and newspapers should be supervised
by the government? Why?
What are the dangers in allowing government officers to interfere
with free press and speech and religion?
                    

                    
                    
                    
CHAPTER V
                                        
What kinds of things may be made private property?
What is the difference between real property and personal property?
What is meant by "intangible" property?
Why is some property public and other property private?
How is it decided whether a kind of property shall be public or
private?
Do you know any property in your community that was once
public but is now private?
Do you know any public property in your community that was
formerly private property?
What property does your local community own?
What property does your state own?
Does your state or community conduct any business enterprises?
Is a law about fire prevention a defense of property or an interference
with a property right?
How does a law regulating child labor affect property rights?
Is the right to labor a property right?
                                        

                    

                                        
CHAPTER VI
                    
Did your grandfather vote in this country?
Does your father vote? If not, why not?
Does your mother vote? If not, why not?



What is meant by a property qualification on the right to vote?
Did we ever have property qualifications in this country?
Have men always voted? If not, how have they secured the
right?
What is the difference between a "republic" and a "democracy"?
Who are "the people" in this country in a political sense?
What is meant by "the rule of the people"?
What restrictions are there on the right to vote in your state?
What is an alien? How may an alien secure the right to vote?
What is meant by "representative" government?
              
     




CHAPTER VII
                    
What is tyranny?
Can there be tyranny in a republic? In a Democracy?
Why should we have respect for the law?
Should we have equal respect for all the laws?
When we do not like a law, what should we do about it?
Is there ever any excuse for breaking a law?
Is American government founded on the doctrine that the
majority should always be allowed to have its way?
Do you think the majority is always right?
Is the majority right so often that there should be no check on it
at all?
Are all laws equally important?
Should all laws be made and changed with the same ease and in
the same manner?
Are there some matters so important that they should not be
touched except by an extraordinary majority?
Are there any matters which the government should not be
allowed to touch, even if it has a two-thirds majority in its favor?
How can the majority be checked in a democracy where majority
rule is the custom?
Are you willing to trust all you have and hope for to the wisdom
of a majority?
                    

                    

                                        
CHAPTER VIII
                    
Who is your congressman in the House of Representatives?
What is his record on legislation?
Who are your Senators? What are their records on important
legislation?



How can a voter discover what a Senator or Representative has
done or is doing in Congress?
Do you know what the Congressional Directory is? The Congressional
Record?
Where and how was the Representative from your district
nominated?
For what principles did he stand during the campaign?
Do you know on what committees your Representative and
Senators are serving in Congress?
Do you know whether the Representatives in your state are
fairly apportioned among the various districts? Can you find
out if you do not know?
How many electoral votes does your state have?
Do you know any of the principles for which the present President
of the United States stands ?
Do you know how many delegates your state is entitled to in
the national conventions of the various political parties?
Do you know how they are chosen?
How can the individual voter get a voice in selecting his party
candidates?
How is public opinion as to the character of the various candidates
for nomination stirred up?
Who pays the expenses incurred in organizing campaigns for
the nomination and election of Presidents?
What federal officers are there in your community?
Who appoints these officers?
How can any citizen secure a place in the federal government?
How can the citizen find out about vacant places in the federal
government?
                    

                    

                                        
                                        
CHAPTER IX
                                        
                                        
What is the difference between constitutional and statutory
law?
Do you have a copy of your state constitution? Where can
copies be procured?
Make an analysis of your state constitution.
How many members in the senate of your state? In the lower
house?
How often are they elected?
Are the districts of your state represented according to population?
If not, what districts are "over-represented"?



What are the principal topics mentioned in the platforms of all
the parties in your state at the last general election?
What limits does the constitution of your state lay on the
legislature?
Are your governor and the majority in each house of the legislature
of the same political party?
Is it desirable that they should be? Why?
When did your governor call out the militia last? For what
purpose?
What things did the governor recommend the legislature to do in
his last message?
Would you rather trust the governor or your representatives in
the legislature to decide on matters of public concern?
Is there a leading party manager or "boss" in your state?
Do you know anything about the work of your representatives
in the state legislature?
                    

                    



CHAPTER X
                                        
What is the population of your city?
How many voters are there in it?
Does your city have a charter? If so how was it made?
Does your city have home rule?
If you have commission government in your city, do you think
it an improvement over the old form? Why?
Who is your mayor? Did he stand for any definite principles
during his campaign for election?
What is a nonpartisan election?
Do women vote for any officers in your city?
How are school officers chosen?
How much money does your city raise and spend each year?
Who makes the "budget" of your city?
Has the citizen any influence on the government of the city at
other than election times? In what way?
                    
  


                    

CHAPTER XI
                    
Do the majority of people in your state live in the cities, towns,
or country districts? What proportion in each?          
What are the chief officers of your county?
How are they elected?



What is the smallest district in your county?
How many school districts in it?
How many towns or townships?
Who decides how much money the county shall spend and for
what purposes?
Who are your town or township officers? How often are they
chosen?
If you wanted a highway repaired, to whom would you go?
Where are the helpless poor of your town taken care of?
What local officers are under the supervision of state officers?
Do your local officers look with favor or disfavor upon supervision
by state officers?
What work does the state government do in your community?
Is the state or local work better done?
                    

                    



CHAPTER XII


How many political parties are there in your state?
How do they rank in numbers?
What was in their platforms in the last campaign?
How does each party make nominations for the various state
offices?
What is the name of the party committee in your district?
What are the various committees which each party has in your
state?
How does the voter become a member of a party?
Who pays the bills of the party committees?
Do the party committees do any political work at other than
election times?
Is it wise for a voter to stay in one party and try to bring it to
his views as nearly as he can? Or is it better to leave a party when
the voter cannot agree with its principles entirely?
What do you think is the chief cause of the decline of old parties
and the rise of new?
What kind of ballots are used in your community?
Where are the polling places fixed for election days?
Who can watch at elections?
Have you a local party manager or "boss"?
Are the saloons open on election days?
                    
                    


                    
                    

CHAPTER XIII

What is direct legislation?
Are any of the laws of your state made directly by the voters?
Do the voters of your state vote on any matters other than the
election of officers?
How is the constitution of your state made and approved?
How is it amended?
Do you think the laws of your state would be very different if
they were made by the voters rather than by the legislature?
Is the voter more able to vote on laws than to choose a wise
person to represent himself in the legislature?
Ought a majority of those voting on a law in a state having direct
legislation be permitted to decide the matter? Why?
Ought the majority required to approve a law be a majority of
all the voters in the state? Why?
Should only a majority of all those voting in the election at which
the law is submitted be required? Why?
What officers ought to be elective, and what appointive in your
community?
In what way is direct legislation in conflict with the separation
of powers?
                                        

                    



CHAPTER XIV

Why do the size and extent of the industries of the country affect
the work which the federal government has to do?
Can you think of any matters which are now left to the control
of the state governments which should be given into the hands of
the federal government?
Do you believe in a "strict" or a "liberal" interpretation of the
Constitution? Why?
What work does the federal government do in your community?
Is there any business done in your community which is "interstate"
in character? Why?
Why can we not leave the detection of adulterated foods to the
consumer?
What is the reason for so much adulteration in modern manu-
facturing?
When the government fixes the rates of railways what matters
should it take into account in arriving at a "fair" rate?



Do you have any industries in your community which are protected
by the tariff ? What are they?
Can you name any article that is increased or decreased in price
by the raising or lowering of the tariff?
Should the federal government employ troops to protect American
investors and promoters who go into other countries to engage
in business? Why?
Can you name any articles made by great trusts?
Do you think competition in business is a good thing?
Do you think the federal government could own and manage the
railways successfully?
Should the parcel post be extended so as to include all, or practically
all, of the express business?
Was it a mistake for the federal government to give away the
public lands?
Do you think permanent international peace is desirable and
possible?
What do you think is the fairest kind of tax for the federal
government to use in raising revenues?
                    

                    
 
                    
                    
CHAPTER XV
                    
Upon what conditions should aliens be allowed to vote?
Can you think of any acts now punishable by the laws of your
state which ought not to be punishable?
Do you believe that the death sentence should ever be imposed?
Do you think that the state should educate lawyers and doctors
at public expense? Why?
Does the state health officer ever come into your community?
Do you think that all undeserved poverty could be prevented?
What is undeserved poverty?
Do you think that government pensions should be paid to all
aged persons unable to support themselves?
Have you any trade unions in your community? For what
principles do they stand?
Do you have a state railway commission or board? Can it fix
freight and passenger rates?
Why are combinations in business formed?
Have you any state highways in your community?
How would you go about securing state aid in building a highway
in your community?



Are the state or the local highways the better?
Does your state own any forest or mineral lands or any water
power?
How much money is raised in your state by taxes each year?
Do you know how the money so raised is apportioned for various
objects?
Does your state have an income or inheritance tax?
Which is more just: an income or an inheritance tax? Why?
                     
 
                    


CHAPTER XVI
                                        
How many cities of more than 25,000 inhabitants are in your
state?
What proportion of the people of your state live in places having
more than 2500 inhabitants?
Can you make a map of your city showing the residential districts
of the well-to-do, the working-class districts, the industrial
centers, and the slums?
How many saloons in your city? Can you make a map showing
where they are located?
What is the death rate of your city? How does it compare with
that in other cities?
Has your city a public market place?
How many policemen in your city?
What proportion of the annual revenue of your city is spent for
the police force? For education? For health work?
Where are the police courts in your city? Have you ever been
in one?
Does your city have a fire prevention bureau?
Can you make a map showing the well-kept and the neglected
streets in your city?
Does your city own any of the public utilities?
Are the water and gas rates in your city higher or lower than in
neighboring cities?
What companies hold franchises in your city?
Do you know anything about the building regulations in your
city?
What does your city do in the way of furnishing recreation for
the people?
Upon what kinds of taxes does your city depend principally for
its income?
                                        



                    


CHAPTER XVII
                                        
Have you a map of your town or township and county?
What railways and state highways run through your township?
How much money do you suppose the citizens of your township
spend each year in freight and express charges and in railway travel?
Are the railway crossings in your neighborhood safe? If not,
why not?
Has your township or county built any roads with the help of
the state government?
How many saloons in your township and county? Have you
local option on the liquor question?
How many schools in your township and county? Are many
in your neighborhood deprived of high school education on account
of poverty?
Do the schools of your neighborhood teach practical subjects
which will help the pupils in their life work?
Do you have a local library? Has your state a circulating
library system ?
Has your village an "improvement society"?
Is there any regular provision for play in your village, or is it left
to chance?
Is your village jail fit to shut prisoners up in?
Which is better: outdoor relief for the poor or the poorhouse?
Does your local health officer make the citizens clean up their
premises?
How much money does your county spend each year? How
much does your township or village spend?
If you had the spending of this money, would you distribute it in
a different manner?
Are many of the farms in your neighborhood mortgaged? What
rate of interest must the farmers pay?
Are there farmers' institutes and granges in your community?
What kind of work do they do?
                                        

                    


CHAPTER XVIII
                    
How can you find out what officers are responsible for any
particular work in your community?
Attend some public meetings at which government officers speak,
and report their speeches.


                                        
Inquire into the nature of the instruction in civics in neighboring
schools.
Describe a recent political campaign in your community.
What citizens' associations do you have in your community?
Is there any way in your state for the citizens to discover what
goes on in the legislature? In the city council?
Compare the accounts of the same affair in two different newspapers,
studying the headlines, the points emphasized, and the
impression given as a whole.
Have you any women's societies in your community? What
work do they undertake?
                    

                    

                    




                    

                                        
                                        

                    

                    

 
                                       

                    
BIBLIOGRAPHY
                                        
ALLEN, W. H., Woman's Part in Government. Dodd, Mead & Co.,
New York, 1911.
BEARD, C. A., American Government and Politics. Macmillan Co.,
New York, 1914. New and revised edition. (Cited as American Government.)
BEARD, C. A., American City Government. The Century Co., 1912.
BEARD, C. A., Readings in American Government and Politics.
Macmillan Co., New York, 1913. New and revised edition. (Cited as Readings.)
BRUÈRE, HENRY, The New City Government. D. Appleton & Co.,
1912.
BRYCE, JAMES, The American Commonwealth, 2 vols. Macmillan
Co. New edition, 1910.
BURCH, H. R., and NEARING, SCOTT, Elements of Economics.
Macmillan Co., 1912.
GILLETTE, JOHN M., Constructive Rural Sociology. Sturgis & Walton
Co., 1913.
HASKIN, FREDERIC J., The American Government. J. J. Little &
Ives Co., 1911.
JONES, CHESTER L., Readings in Parties and Elections in the United
States. Macmillan Co., 1912.
KAYE, PERCY L., Readings in Civil Government. Century Co.,
New York, 1910.
KELLEY, FLORENCE, Some Ethical Gains through Legislation.
Macmillan Co.
REINSCH, PAUL S., Readings on American State Government. Ginn
& Co., 1911.
SEAGER, H. R., A Social Program--Industrial Insurance. Macmillan
Co., 1910.
WARD, EDWARD J., The Social Center. D. Appleton & Co., 1913.


                    

                    

                    

                    


 APPENDIX
                    
CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES
                    
WE the people of the United States, in order to form a more perfect union,
establish justice, insure domestic tranquillity, provide for the common defense,
promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves
and our posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United
States of America. 



ARTICLE I
                    
SECTION 1. All legislative powers herein granted shall be vested in a
Congress of the United States, which shall consist of a Senate and House of
Representatives.
SECTION 2. 1. The House of Representatives shall be composed of members
chosen every second year by the people of the several States, and the
electors in each State shall have the qualifications requisite for electors of the
most numerous branch of the State legislature.
2. No person shall be a representative who shall not have attained to the age
of twenty-five years, and been seven years a citizen of the United States, and
who shall not, when elected, be an inhabitant of that State in which he shall
be chosen.
3. Representatives and direct taxes 1  shall be apportioned among the several
States which may be included within this Union, according to their respective
numbers, which shall be determined by adding to the whole number of free
persons, including those bound to service for a term of years, and excluding
Indians not taxed, three fifths of all other persons.1 The actual enumeration
shall be made within three years after the first meeting of the Congress of the
United States, and within every subsequent term of ten years, in such manner
as they shall by law direct. The number of representatives shall not exceed
one for every thirty thousand; but each State shall have at least one representative;
and until such enumeration shall be made, the State of New Hampshire
shall be entitled to choose three, Massachusetts eight, Rhode Island and Providence
Plantations one, Connecticut five, New York six, New Jersey four, Pennsylvania
eight, Delaware one, Maryland six, Virginia ten, North Carolina five,
South Carolina five, and Georgia three.
                    
1Partly superseded by the 14th Amendment. (See below, p. 324.)
                    


4. When vacancies happen in the representation from any State, the
executive authority thereof shall issue writs of election to fill such vacancies.
5. The House of Representatives shall choose their speaker and other
officers; and shall have the sole power of impeachment.
SECTION 3.  1. The Senate of the United States shall be composed of two
senators from each State, chosen by the legislature thereof, for six years;
and each senator shall have one vote.1 
2. Immediately after they shall be assembled in consequence of the first
election, they shall be divided as equally as may be into three classes. The
seats of the senators of the first class shall be vacated at the expiration of the
second year, of the second class at the expiration of the fourth year, and of the
third class at the expiration of the sixth year, so that one third may be chosen
every second year; and if vacancies happen by resignation, or otherwise,
during the recess of the legislature of any State, the executive thereof may
make temporary appointments until the next meeting of the legislature, which
shall then fill such vacancies.1
3. No person shall be a senator who shall not have attained to the age
of thirty years, and been nine years a citizen of the United States, and who
shall not, when elected, be an inhabitant of that State for which he shall be
chosen.
4. The Vice President of the United States shall be President of the
Senate, but shall have no vote, unless they be equally divided.
5. The Senate shall choose their other officers, and also a president pro
tempore, in the absence of the Vice President, or when he shall exercise the
office of President of the United States.
6. The Senate shall have the sole power to try all impeachments. When
sitting for that purpose, they shall be on oath or affirmation. When the
President of the United States is tried, the chief justice shall preside: and no
person shall be convicted without the concurrence of two thirds of the members
present.
7. Judgment in cases of impeachment shall not extend further than to
removal from office, and disqualification to hold and enjoy any office of honor,
trust or profit under the United States: but the party convicted shall nevertheless
be liable and subject to indictment, trial, judgment and punishment,
according to law.
SECTION 4. 1. The times, places, and manner of holding elections for
senators and representatives, shall be prescribed in each State by the legislature
thereof; but the Congress may at any time by law make or alter such
regulations, except as to the places of choosing senators.
2. The Congress shall assemble at least once in every year, and such meeting
shall be on the first Monday in December, unless they shall by law appoint
a different day.
SECTION 5. 1. Each House shall be the judge of the elections, returns

1 See the i7th Amendment, below, p. 325.



and qualifications of its own members, and a majority of each shall constitute
a quorum to do business; but a smaller number may adjourn from day to day,
and may be authorized to compel the attendance of absent members, in such
manner, and under such penalties as each House may provide.
2. Each House may determine the rules of its proceedings, punish its members
for disorderly behavior, and, with the concurrence of two thirds, expel
a member.
3. Each House shall keep a journal of its proceedings, and from time to
time publish the same, excepting such parts as may in their judgment require
secrecy; and the yeas and nays of the members of either House on any
question shall, at the desire of one fifth of those present, be entered on the
journal.
4. Neither House, during the session of Congress, shall, without the consent
of the other, adjourn for more than three days, nor to any other place than
that in which the two Houses shall be sitting.
SECTION 6. 1. The senators and representatives shall receive a compensation
for their services, to be ascertained by law, and paid out of the Treasury
of the United States. They shall in all cases, except treason, felony and
breach of the peace, be privileged from arrest during their attendance at the
session of their respective Houses, and in going to and returning from the
same; and for any speech or debate in either House, they shall not be questioned
in any other place.
2. No senator or representative shall, during the time for which he was
elected, be appointed to any civil office under the authority of the United States,
which shall have been created, or the emoluments whereof shall have been
increased during such time; and no person holding any office under the
United States shall be a member of either House during his continuance in
office.
SECTION 7. 1. All bills for raising revenue shall originate in the House
of Representatives; but the Senate may propose or concur with amendments
as on other bills.
2. Every bill which shall have passed the House of Representatives and
the Senate, shall, before it become a law, be presented to the President of
the United States; if he approve he shall sign it, but if not he shall return it,
with his objections to that House in which it shall have originated, who shall
enter the objections at large on their journal, and proceed to reconsider it. If
after such reconsideration two thirds of that House shall agree to pass the
bill, it shall be sent, together with the objections, to the other House, by which
it shall likewise be reconsidered, and if approved by two thirds of that House,
it shall become a law. But in all such cases the votes of both Houses shall
be determined by yeas and nays, and the names of the persons voting for and
against the bill shall be entered on the journal of each House respectively. If
any bill shall not be returned by the President within ten days (Sundays excepted)
after it shall have been presented to him, the same shall be a law, in
like manner as if he had signed it, unless the Congress by their adjournment
prevent its return, in which case it shall not be a law.



3. Every order, resolution, or vote to which the concurrence of the Senate
and House of Representatives may be necessary (except on a question of adjournment)
shall be presented to the President of the United States; and be-
fore the same shall take effect, shall be approved by him, or being disapproved
by him, shall be repassed by two thirds of the Senate and House of Representatives,
according to the rules and limitations prescribed in the case of a bill.
SECTION 8. 1. The Congress shall have power to lay and collect taxes,
duties, imposts and excises, to pay the debts and provide for the common defense
and general welfare of the United States; but all duties, imposts and
excises shall be uniform throughout the United States;
2. To borrow money on the credit of the United States;
3. To regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the several
States, and with the Indian tribes;
4. To establish an uniform rule of naturalization, and uniform laws on the
subject of bankruptcies throughout the United States;
5. To coin money, regulate the value thereof, and of foreign coin, and fix
the standard of weights and measures;
6. To provide for the punishment of counterfeiting the securities and current
coin of the United States;
7. To establish post offices and post roads;
8. To promote the progress of science and useful arts, by securing for limited
times to authors and inventors the exclusive right to their respective writings
and discoveries;
9. To constitute tribunals inferior to the Supreme Court;
10. To define and punish piracies and felonies committed on the high seas,
and offenses against the law of nations;
11. To declare war, grant letters of marque and reprisal, and make rules
concerning captures on land and water;
12. To raise and support armies, but no appropriation of money to that use
shall be for a longer term than two years;
13. To provide and maintain a navy;
14. To make rules for the government and regulation of the land and naval
forces;
15. To provide for calling forth the militia to execute the laws of the Union,
suppress insurrections and repel invasions;
16. To provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining the militia, and for
governing such part of them as may be employed in the service of the United
States, reserving to the States respectively the appointment of the officers, and
the authority of training the militia according to the discipline prescribed by
Congress;
17. To exercise exclusive legislation in all cases whatsoever, over such district
(not exceeding ten miles square) as may, by cession of particular States,
and the acceptance of Congress, become the seat of the government of the
United States, and to exercise like authority over all places purchased by the
consent of the legislature of the State in which the same shall be, for the erection
of forts, magazines, arsenals, dockyards, and other needful buildings; and



18. To make all laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into
execution the foregoing powers, and all other powers vested by this Constitution
in the government of the United States, or in any department or officer
thereof.                    
SECTION 9. 1. The migration or importation of such persons as any of the
States now existing shall think proper to admit, shall not be prohibited by the
Congress prior to the year one thousand eight hundred and eight, but a tax or
duty may be imposed on such importation, not exceeding ten dollars for each
person.
2. The privilege of the writ of habeas corpus shall not be suspended, unless
when in cases of rebellion or invasion the public safety may require it.
3. No bill of attainder or ex post facto law shall be passed.
4. No capitation, or other direct, tax shall be laid, unless in proportion to
the census or enumeration hereinbefore directed to be taken.1
5. No tax or duty shall be laid on articles exported from any State.
6. No preference shall be given by any regulation of commerce or revenue
to the ports of one State over those of another: nor shall vessels bound to, or
from, one State be obliged to enter, clear, or pay duties in another.
7. No money shall be drawn from the treasury, but in consequence of appropriations
made by law; and a regular statement and account of the receipts
and expenditures of all public money shall be published from time to time.
8. No title of nobility shall be granted by the United States: and no person
holding any office of profit or trust under them, shall, without the consent of
the Congress, accept of any present, emolument, office, or title, of any kind
whatever, from any king, prince, or foreign State.
SECTION 10. 1. No State shall enter into any treaty, alliance, or confederation;
grant letters of marque and reprisal; coin money; emit bills of
credit; make anything but gold and silver coin a tender in payment of
debts; pass any bill of attainder, ex post facto law, or law impairing the obligation
of contracts, or grant any title of nobility.
2. No State shall, without the consent of the Congress, lay any imposts
or duties on imports or exports, except what may be absolutely necessary for
executing its inspection laws: and the net produce of all duties and imposts
laid by any State on imports or exports, shall be for the use of the treasury
of the United States; and all such laws shall be subject to the revision and
control of the Congress.
3. No State shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any duty of tonnage,
keep troops, or ships of war in time of peace, enter into any agreement
or compact with another State, or with a foreign power, or engage in war,
unless actually invaded, or in such imminent danger as will not admit of delay.                    
                    

                    



ARTICLE II

SECTION 1. 1. The executive power shall be vested in a President of the
United States of America. He shall hold his office during the term of four

1 See the i6th Amendment, below, p. 325.



years, and, together with the Vice President, chosen for the same term, be
elected, as follows:
2. Each State shall appoint, in such manner as the legislature thereof may
direct, a number of electors, equal to the whole number of senators and representatives
to which the State may be entitled in the Congress: but no senator
or representative, or person holding an office of trust or profit under the
United States, shall be appointed an elector.
1 The electors shall meet in their respective States, and vote by ballot for two
persons, of whom one at least shall not be an inhabitant of the same State with
themselves. And they shall make a list of all the persons voted for, and of
the number of votes for each; which list they shall sign and certify, and
transmit sealed to the seat of the government of the United States, directed
to the president of the Senate. The president of the Senate shall, in the
presence of the Senate and House of Representatives, open all the certificates,
and the votes shall then be counted. The person having the greatest number
of votes shall be the President, if such number be a majority of the whole
number of electors appointed; and if there be more than one who have such
majority, and have an equal number of votes, then the House of Representatives
shall immediately choose by ballot one of them for President; and if no
person have a majority, then from the five highest on the list the said House
shall in like manner choose the President. But in choosing the President, the
votes shall be taken by States, the representation from each State having one
vote; a quorum for this purpose shall consist of a member or members from
two thirds of the States, and a majority of all the States shall be necessary to
a choice. In every case, after the choice of the President, the person having
the greatest number of votes of the electors shall be the Vice President. But
if there should remain two or more who have equal votes, the Senate shall
choose from them by ballot the Vice President.2
3. The Congress may determine the time of choosing the electors, and the
day on which they shall give their votes ; which day shall be the same throughout
the United States.
4. No person except a natural born citizen, or a citizen of the United
States, at the time of the adoption of this Constitution, shall be eligible to the
office of President; neither shall any person be eligible to that office who shall
not have attained to the age of thirty-five years, and been fourteen years a
resident within the United States.
5. In case of the removal of the President from office, or of his death, resignation,
or inability to discharge the powers and duties of the said office, the
same shall devolve on the Vice President, and the Congress may by law provide
for the case of removal, death, resignation, or inability, both of the
President and Vice President, declaring what officer shall then act as President,
and such officer shall act accordingly, until the disability be removed, or a
President shall be elected.

1 The following paragraph was in force only from 1788 to 1803.
2 Superseded by the 12th Amendment. (See p. 323.)



6. The President shall, at stated times, receive for his services a compensation,
which shall neither be increased nor diminished during the period for
which he shall have been elected, and he shall not receive within that period
any other emolument from the United States, or any of them.
7. Before he enter on the execution of his office, he shall take the following
oath or affirmation: - " I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will faithfully
execute the office of President of the United States, and will to the best of
my ability, preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States."
SECTION 2. 1. The President shall be commander in chief of the army
and navy of the United States, and of the militia of the several States, when
called into the actual service of the United States; he may require the opinion,
in writing, of the principal officer in each of the executive departments, upon
any subject relating to the duties of their respective offices, and he shall have
power to grant reprieves and pardons for offenses against the United States,
except in cases of impeachment.
2. He shall have power, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate,
to make treaties, provided two thirds of the senators present concur; and he
shall nominate, and by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall
appoint ambassadors, other public ministers and consuls, judges of the Supreme
Court, and all other officers of the United States, whose appointments are not
herein otherwise provided for, and which shall be established by law: but the
Congress may by law vest the appointment of such inferior officers, as they
think proper, in the President alone, in the courts of law, or in the heads of
departments.
3. The President shall have power to fill up all vacancies that may happen
during the recess of the Senate, by granting commissions which shall expire at
the end of their next session.
SECTION 3. 1. He shall from time to time give to the Congress information
of the state of the Union, and recommend to their consideration such
measures as he shall judge necessary and expedient; he may, on extraordinary
occasions, convene both Houses, or either of them, and in case of disagreement
between them with respect to the time of adjournment, he may adjourn
them to such time as he shall think proper; he shall receive ambassadors and
other public ministers; he shall take care that the laws be faithfully executed,
and shall commission all the officers of the United States.
SECTION 4. The President, Vice President, and all civil officers of the
United States, shall be removed from office on impeachment for, and conviction
of, treason, bribery, or other high crimes and misdemeanors.
                    

                    

                    
ARTICLE III
                    
SECTION 1. The judicial power of the United States shall be vested in
one Supreme Court, and in such inferior courts as the Congress may from time
to time ordain and establish. The judges, both of the Supreme and inferior
courts, shall hold their offices during good behavior, and shall, at stated times,
receive for their services, a compensation, which shall not be diminished during
their continuance in office.




SECTION 2. 1. The judicial power shall extend to all cases, in law and
equity, arising under this Constitution, the laws of the United States, and
treaties made, or which shall be made, under their authority;--to all cases
affecting ambassadors, other public ministers and consuls;--to all cases of
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction;--to controversies to which the United
States shall be a party; -to controversies between two or more States;--between
a State and citizens of another State; 1--between citizens of different
States,--between citizens of the same State claiming lands under grants of
different States, and between a State, or the citizens thereof, and foreign States,
citizens or subjects.
2. In all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers and consuls,
and those in which a State shall be party, the Supreme Court shall have original
jurisdiction. In all the other cases before mentioned, the Supreme Court
shall have appellate jurisdiction, both as to law and to fact, with such exceptions,
and under such regulations as the Congress shall make.
3. The trial of all crimes, except in cases of impeachment, shall be by jury;
and such trial shall be held in the State where the said crimes shall have been
committed; but when not committed within any State, the trial shall be at
such place or places as the Congress may by law have directed.
SECTION 3. 1. Treason against the United States, shall consist only in
levying war against them, or in adhering to their enemies, giving them aid
and comfort. No person shall be convicted of treason unless on the testimony
of two witnesses to the same overt act, or on confession in open court.
2. The Congress shall have power to declare the punishment of treason, but
no attainder of treason shall work corruption of blood, or forfeiture except
during the life of the person attainted.
                    

                    

                                        
ARTICLE IV
                                        
SECTION 1. Full faith and credit shall be given in each State to the
public acts, records, and judicial proceedings of every other State. And the
Congress may by general laws prescribe the manner in which such acts, records
and proceedings shall be proved, and the effect thereof.
SECTION 2. 1. The citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges
and immunities of citizens in the several States.
2. A person charged in any State with treason, felony, or other crime, who
shall flee from justice, and be found in another State, shall on demand of the
executive authority of the State from which he fled, be delivered up to be removed
to the State having jurisdiction of the crime.
3. No person held to service or labor in one State, under the laws thereof,
escaping into another, shall, in consequence of any law or regulation therein,
be discharged from such service or labor, but shall be delivered up on claim
of the party to whom such service or labor may be due.
SECTION 3. 1. New States may be admitted by the Congress into this
Union; but no new State shall be formed or erected within the jurisdiction


1 See the 11th Amendment, p. 323.



of any other State; nor any State be formed by the junction of two or more
States, or parts of States, without the consent of the legislatures of the States
concerned as well as of the Congress.
2. The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules
and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the
United States; and nothing in this Constitution shall be so construed as to
prejudice any claims of the United States, or of any particular State.
SECTION 4. The United States shall guarantee to every State in this Union
a republican form of government, and shall protect each of them against invasion;
and on application of the legislature, or of the executive (when the
legislature cannot be convened) against domestic violence.
                    

                    

                    
ARTICLE V

The Congress, whenever two thirds of both Houses shall deem it necessary,
shall propose amendments to this Constitution, or, on the application of the
legislatures of two thirds of the several States, shall call a convention for proposing
amendments, which, in either case, shall be valid to all intents and purposes,
as part of this Constitution when ratified by the legislatures of three
fourths of the several States, or by conventions in three fourths thereof, as the
one or the other mode of ratification may be proposed by the Congress; Provided
that no amendment which may be made prior to the year one thousand
eight hundred and eight shall in any manner affect the first and fourth clauses
in the ninth section of the first article; and that no State, without its consent,
shall be deprived of its equal suffrage in the Senate.
                                        

                    

                                        
ARTICLE VI
                                        
1. All debts contracted and engagements entered into, before the adoption
of this Constitution, shall be as valid against the United States under this Constitution,
as under the Confederation.
2. This Constitution, and the laws of the United States which shall be
made in pursuance thereof; and all treaties made, or which shall be made,
under the authority of the United States, shall be the supreme law of the land;
and the Judges in every State shall be bound thereby, anything in the Constitution
or laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding.
3. The senators and representatives before mentioned, and the members of
the several State legislatures, and all executive and judicial officers, both of the
United States and of the several States, shall be bound by oath or affirmation
to support this Constitution; but no religious test shall ever be required as a
qualification to any office or public trust under the United States.
                                        

                    

                                        
ARTICLE VII
                                        
The ratification of the conventions of nine States shall be sufficient for the
establishment of this Constitution between the States so ratifying the same.
                    

                    
Done in Convention by the unanimous consent of the States present the
seventeenth day of September in the year of our Lord one thousand seven
hundred and eighty-seven, and of the independence of the United States of
America the twelfth. In witness whereof we have hereunto subscribed our
names,
                   
GO: WASHINGTON--
Presidt. and Deputy from Virginia

                    

                    

                    

                    
Articles in addition to, and amendment of, the Constitution of the United
States of America, proposed by Congress, and ratified by the legislatures of
the several States pursuant to the fifth article of the original Constitution.
                    

                    

                    
ARTICLE I 1

Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting
the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of
the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition
the government for a redress of grievances.
                    

                    


ARTICLE II

A well regulated militia, being necessary to the security of a free State
the right of the people to keep and bear arms, shall not be infringed.
                    

                    


ARTICLE III

No soldier shall, in time of peace be quartered in any house, without the
consent of the owner, nor in time of war, but in a manner to be prescribed by
law.
                    

                    
                    

ARTICLE IV

The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and
effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated, and
no warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause, supported by oath or affirmation,
and particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons or
things to be seized.
                                        

                    


ARTICLE V

No person shall be held to answer for a capital, or otherwise infamous
crime, unless on a presentment or indictment of a grand jury, except in cases
arising in the land or naval forces, or in the militia, when in actual service in
time of war or public danger; nor shall any person be subject for the same
offense to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb; nor shall be compelled in
any criminal case to be a witness against himself, nor be deprived of life, liberty,

1 The first ten Amendments adopted in 1791.




or property, without due process of law; nor shall private property be taken
for public use without just compensation.


                    

                                        
ARTICLE VI

In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy
and public trial, by an impartial jury of the State and district wherein the
crime shall have been committed, which district shall have been previously ascertained
by law, and to be informed of the nature and cause of the accusation;
to be confronted with the witnesses against him; to have compulsory
process for obtaining witnesses in his favor, and to have the assistance of
counsel for his defense.


                    
                    

ARTICLE VII

In suits at common law, where the value in controversy shall exceed twenty
dollars, the right of trial by jury shall be preserved, and no fact tried by a jury
shall be otherwise reexamined in any court of the United States, than according
to the rules of the common law.

                    
                    
                    

ARTICLE VIII

Excessive bail shall not be required, nor excessive fines imposed, nor cruel
and unusual punishments inflicted.

                    
                    
                    

ARTICLE IX

The enumeration in the Constitution of certain rights shall not be construed
to deny or disparage others retained by the people.

                    
                    
                    
                    

ARTICLE X

The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited
by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the
people.

                    
                    
                    

ARTICLE XI1

The judicial power of the United States shall not be construed to extend
to any suit in law or equity, commenced or prosecuted against one of the
United States by citizens of another State, or by citizens or subjects of any
foreign State.
                                        

                    

                                        

ARTICLE XII2

The electors shall meet in their respective States, and vote by ballot for
President and Vice President, one of whom, at least, shall not be an inhabitant
of the same State with themselves ; they shall name in their ballots the
person voted for as President, and in distinct ballots, the person voted for as
Vice President, and they shall make distinct lists of all persons voted for as

1 Adopted in 1798.  2 Adopted in 1804.



                    
President and of all persons voted for as Vice President, and of the number of
votes for each, which lists they shall sign and certify, and transmit sealed to
the seat of the government of the United States, directed to the President of
the Senate;--The President of the Senate shall, in the presence of the Senate
and House of Representatives, open all the certificates and the votes shall then
be counted; - The person having the greatest number of votes for President,
shall be the President, if such number be a majority of the whole number of
electors appointed; and if no person have such majority, then from the persons
having the highest numbers not exceeding three on the list of those voted
for as President, the House of Representatives shall choose immediately, by
ballot, the President. But in choosing the President, the votes shall be taken
by States, the representation from each State having one vote; a quorum for
this purpose shall consist of a member or members from two thirds of the States,
and a majority of all the States shall be necessary to a choice. And if the
House of Representatives shall not choose a President whenever the right of
choice shall devolve upon them, before the fourth day of March next following,
then the Vice President shall act as President, as in the case of the death
or other constitutional disability of the President. The person having the
greatest number of votes as Vice President shall be the Vice President, if such
number be a majority of the whole number of electors appointed, and if no
person have a majority, then from the two highest numbers on the list, the
Senate shall choose the Vice President; a quorum for the purpose shall consist
of two thirds of the whole number of Senators, and a majority of the whole
number shall be necessary to a choice. But no person constitutionally ineligible
to the office of President shall be eligible to that of Vice President of the
United States.


                    


ARTICLE XIII1

SECTION 1. Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except as punishment
for crime whereof the party shall have been duly convicted, shall exist
within the United States, or any place subject to their jurisdiction.
2. Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation.


                    
                                        

ARTICLE XIV2

1. All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the
jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein
they reside. No State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the
privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States; nor shall any State
deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor
deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.
2. Representatives shall be apportioned among the several States according
to their respective numbers, counting the whole number of persons in each
State, excluding Indians not taxed. But when the right to vote at any election
for the choice of electors for President and Vice President of the United States,


1 Adopted in 1865.

2 Adopted in 1868.



                    
representatives in Congress, the executive and judicial officers of a State, or
the members of the legislature thereof, is denied to any of the male inhabitants
of such State, being twenty-one years of age, and citizens of the United States,
or in any way abridged, except for participation in rebellion, or other crime, the
basis of representation therein shall be reduced in the proportion which the
number of such male citizens shall bear to the whole number of male citizens
twenty-one years of age in such State.
3. No person shall be a senator or representative in Congress, or elector of
President and Vice President, or hold any office, civil or military, under the
United States, or under any State, who, having previously taken an oath, as a
member of Congress, or as an officer of the United States, or as a member of
any State legislature, or as an executive or judicial officer of any State, to support
the Constitution of the United States, shall have engaged in insurrection or
rebellion against the same, or given aid or comfort to the enemies thereof.
But Congress may by a vote of two thirds of each House, remove such disability.
4. The validity of the public debt of the United States, authorized by law,
including debts incurred for payment of pensions and bounties for services in
suppressing insurrection or rebellion, shall not be questioned. But neither the
United States nor any State shall assume or pay any debt or obligation incurred
in aid of insurrection or rebellion against the United States, or any claim for
the loss or emancipation of any slave; but all such debts, obligations and claims
shall be held illegal and void.
5. The Congress shall have power to enforce, by appropriate legislation, the
provisions of this article.

                    
                    
                    

ARTICLE XV1

SECTION 1. The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be
denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of race,
color, or previous condition of servitude.
SECTION 2. The Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate
legislation.

                    
                    
                    
                                        
ARTICLE XVI 2

The Congress shall have power to lay and collect taxes on incomes, from
whatever source derived, without apportionment among the several States,
and without regard to any census or enumeration.

                    
                    
                    
                                        
ARTICLE XVII3

The Senate of the United States shall be composed of two senators from
each State, elected by the people thereof, for six years ; and each senator shall

1 Adopted in 1870.

2 Passed July, 1909; proclaimed February 25, 1913.

3 Passed May, 1912, in lieu of paragraph one, Section 3, Article I, of the
Constitution and so much of paragraph two of the same Section as relates to the filling
of vacancies ; proclaimed May 31, 1913.


                    
have one vote. The electors in each State shall have the qualifications requisite
for electors of the most numerous branch of the State legislature.
When vacancies happen in the representation of any State in the Senate,
the executive authority of such State shall issue writs of election to fill such
vacancies: Provided, That the legislature of any State may empower the executive
thereof to make temporary appointments until the people fill the
vacancies by election as the legislature may direct.
This amendment shall not be so construed as to affect the election or term
of any senator chosen before it becomes valid as part of the Constitution.




                    
                    
                    
                    


                    
                    
                   INDEX

Accidents: industrial, 23.
Agriculture: federal government and,
192; irrigation works, 193; colleges,
193; Department of, 194;
agricultural credit, 285.
Alaska: 215.
Amendments: federal, 97; state, 122.
Arbitration : international treaties,
208.
                    
Bail: definition and purpose, 49.
Ballots:  secret, 151;   Australian,
152; Massachusetts, 152; non-
partisan, 152; short, 165.
Budget: national, 214; city, 267.
                    
Capital: and labor, 18.
Children: in the family, 22; dependent,
28 ; crime and, 28; rights
of, 52; in the courts, 52.
Cities: home rule for, 130; council
and its powers, 131; description,
243; important elements in life of,
245;   government    of, 130   ff.;
functions, 242 iff.; planning of,
265; program for, 268.
Citizens: contrasted with subjects,
4; influence on politics, 149; how
affected by federal government,
179 ff.; how affected by state government,
220; and voting privilege, 221. See Rights.
Civics: purpose of teaching, 7; human
interest, 20.
Civil service: federal, 110; in cities,
133.
Clothing : adulteration, 16; frauds
in, 182.
Commission government: for cities,
136; city manager plan, 137.
Community : an enlarged family, 23;
influence on family, 23.
Competition: theory of, 187; how
far good, 191 ; of foreign labor, 196.
Congress: a representative body, 97;
the two Houses, 98 ff.; meetings,
103; how it makes laws, 103;
powers, 105; special sessions, 113;
Cabinet and, 115, 116 ; courts and,
117.
Constitution : the federal, framing of,
84; parts of, 96; amendment of,
97; the state, 122.
Constitutional law: nature of, 122.
Council: city, 131.
County: government, 141; officers,
141.
Courts: procedure in trials, 48;
children's, 52; federal, 117; state,
128;   city,  133;   police, 134;
special, 134; rural, 143; women
in, 249.
Crimes: definition, 222; penalties,
222; prevention of, 223; notions
about punishment, 224; proper
treatment for criminals, 250; due
process of   law, 48; plans for
reformation of criminals, 250; in
the country, 281.
                    
Democracy: definition, 69;  confused
ideas about, 69; changes in
ideas about, 69; direct, in cities,
138; use of term to-day, 161;
growth of direct, 161; devices for
direct, 163 ff.; opinions on direct,
166 ff.
Direct primary: in selection  of
officers, 107, 124, 125, 148; idea
behind, 165.
Diseases: effect on family, 24; federal
government and, 202, 203;
state prevention   of,  227. See
Health.



District of Columbia: its government,
215.
Divorce : grounds for, 31 ; attitude of
states on, 222.
                    
Education: power of state over, 225;
university extension work, 225;
special colleges and courses, 226;
training teachers, 226; in the city,
263; newer features, 263; and
government work, 264; in the
country, 276.
Elections: of national representatives,
100 ff.; presidential, 108;
of state representatives, 124; of
governor, 125; national parties in
local, 135; non-partisan, 135; the
primary, 148; honest, 149 ff.;
secret, 151; polls, 154; publicity
in, 157.
                    
Factories: the system, 15; consumer
and, 15; owner and, 16,
17; laborer and, 17; in the home,
29.
Family: in olden times, 11; a community
concern, 22-23; children
and, 22; value of, 22; outside
conditions and, 23; wages and,
24 ; types, 25 ff.; government and,
30 ff.; right basis for, 32.
Fathers: labor and parenthood, 26;
"little," 27; position in family,
31, 32.
Fire: the city department, 251; prevention,
251; use of fire laws to
clean up villages, 283.
Food: connection with transportation,
14; adulteration, 14; quantity
produced, 15 ; foreign markets,
15; federal laws, and inspection,
181; city governments and, 258;
milk, 258; markets, 259; ice, 259.
Franchises: city, 254; regulation of,
255; municipal ownership, 255.
Freedom: of speech, 41 if.; of press,
41 ff.; of religion, 44 ff.; of contract,
60.
                    
Government: origin of word, 4;
viewed as a mystery, 4; necessity
for, 5-6; purpose of, 6; nature of,
7; changes in, 10; homes and, 30;
religion and, 45; property and,
54 ff. ; as a machine, 80 ; as a human
instrument, 82; federal, 83 ff., 173
ff.; state, 121 ff., 220 ff.; city, 130
ff., 242 ff.; rural, 140 ff., 271 ff.;
division of work between federal
and state, 176 ff.
Governor: comparison with president,
126; his legislative duties,
127; his executive duties, 127.
                    
Habeas corpus: definition and value
of, 47.
Hawaii: 215.
Health: of national interest, 202;
public health service, 203; state
government and, 227; prevention
of disease, 227; city government
and, 256; attacking disease directly,
259; outline of work for
cities, 260; care of, in villages, 284.
Home: kinds, 25; fathers and, 25;
mothers and, 26 ff.; labor in, 29;
of negroes, 29; of poor whites in
mountains, 30; land grants to
farmers, 192; need of attention to,
by city government, 247; housing
in cities, 261; in country, 285.
Hours of labor: relation to home life,
26.
Housing: see Shelter and Homes.
                    
Immigrants: government and, 17;
tariff and, 186; federal control of,
197; inspection of, 202.
Indeterminate   sentences:  description
of practices, 51, 52.
Industry : changes in, 10 ff.; domestic,
10; industrial revolution,
13 ; foreign labor in, 17 ; family and,
23; in home, 29; how national in
character, 177;    why   hard  for
states to regulate, 177; foreign
trade, 187; trusts, 187 ff.; industrial
commissions, 233.
Inequality: before the law, 50; between
men and women, 51.
Initiative : in cities, 132, 138; in
states, 133, 167.
Intolerance: effect on civil liberties,
42, 43.



Judges : in juvenile courts, 52; power,
86; position in government, 89;
criticism of, 92; federal, 117 ff.;
state, 128; city, X134; women as,
249.
Judiciary: see Courts and Judges.
Jury : kinds, 48; spirit and purpose,
49; trial of children before, 52.
Juvenile courts: description, 52.
                    
Labor: division of, 13-14; factory
system and, 17; foreign, 17, 184,
196; and capital, 18; property
rights in, 60 ff.; Department of,
190; federal laws on, 195; government
as an employer, 197;
unemployment, 196, 231; workmen's
compensation, 229; social
insurance, 230; poverty and, 231;
legislation on, 233.
Legislature: the two houses, 123; how
it makes laws, 125; powers, 125.
Liberty : civil, need of, 35; types,
35; history and meaning of, 36 ff.;
American theory, 37; principles of,
37; Congress and, 38; States and,
38; personal security, 39 ; personal,
40; kinds of, 41 ff.; tolerance and,
42; limits upon, 43; children and,
52; new spirit in, 52.
Liberty : political, history, 65; arguments
for and against, 66, 67; democracy
and, 69; of negroes, 70;
of women, 71; citizenship and, 72.
                    
Majority: dangers from, 85; its
power, 93; limitations on, 168.
Marriage: the state and, 221; serious
aspects of, 221.
Martial law: free speech and, 42.
Mayor: duties of, 132. See Commission
Government.
Men: as fathers, 26; as husbands, 31.
Money : in elections, 155; in campaigns,
156; gold and silver coinage,
209; free silver, 210; paper,
211; bank notes, 212; banking
systems and laws, 212.
Mothers: labor and parenthood,
27 ff.; "little," 27; position in
family, 31, 32.                    
Municipal ownership : 255.
                    
National defense: character, 204 ff.
Natural resources: extent, 199-200;
proposals for dealing with, 199;
of the states, 238.
Negroes: homes of, 29.
Noise: prevention of undue, 253.
                    
Panama Canal: 201.
Parole: purpose, 49; some practices,
51.
Parties: separation of powers and,
88; national parties in local elections,
135 ; how formed, 146 ; issues
and their history, 146; Republican,
147; Democratic, 147; Populist,
147; Socialist, 147, 191; Progressive,
147; third, 147; organization
and methods, 148; how financed, 156.
Peace: see War.
Pensions: for soldiers, 206; for
mothers, 230.
People : definition, 69; vagueness
of term, 168.
Petition: right to, 44; history and
value of, 44.
Philippines, 215.
Police: free speech and, 42; the city
problem  of, 248; the force, 248;
women as, 249.
Porto Rico: 215.
Post office: history and services
rendered by, 198.
Poverty: state relief, 228; prevention
of, 228; specific causes of,
229; war on, 229; in the city, 267;
in the country, 282.
President: how chosen, 106 ff.;
powers, 110 ff.; his message, 112;
the veto, 112; and war, 206.
Press: freedom of, 41; intolerance
of, 43; limits upon, 43.
Property: how safeguarded by government,
54, 55; changes in rights
over, 57; property rights in slaves,
57; married women and, 57;
public, 58; ownership by government,
59; limitations on use, 59;
property rights and labor, 60;
general tendencies, 62; qualification
for voting, 66 ff.; municipal
ownership of utilities, 255.



Public opinion: publicity schemes,
157, 166; relation to government,
287 ff.; schools and, 290; libraries
and, 291; private agencies and,
292; relation of women to, 296.
Public  works: federal, 200 ff.;
Panama Canal, 201; highways,
201, 237; how    states help with
roads, 237, 275; city streets, 253;
utilities, 253; parks, 256; village
utilities, 281.
                    
Railways: interstate commerce, 180;
rates, 180; state regulation of,
234; Wisconsin control of, 235.
Recall: in cities, 138, 164; of judicial
decisions, 164.
Reciprocity : theory of, 186.
Recreation: relation to home life,
24; need of and provision for, in
cities, 261-262; in the country,
279.
Referendum: in cities, 132, 138; in
states, 133, 167.
Religion: freedom of, 44; early
persecutions, 45; federal government
and, 45; states and, 46;
relation to politics, 46.
Representatives: see Congress.
Republic : definition, 69; democracy
and, 69; representative government
and, 69; character of government
first set up, 161.
Rights: of women, 31, 71; of parents,
31; civil, 35 ff.; of petition,
44; of children, 52; property,
54 ff.; of labor, 61; political, 65.
                    
Saloons: local option, 276; prohibition,
276.
Sanitation: factory owners and, 16;
housing laws and, 261; the problem
in the country, 284. See Health.
Senate: see Congress and Legislature.
Separation of powers: origin, 84; advantages
and disadvantages, 85 ff.
Shelter : ownership of homes, 19;
public regulation, 19; rural homes,
19; wages and, 24; in cities, 261.
Slander : definition, 43.
Speech: freedom of, 41; how interfered
with, 41; police permits and,
42; martial law and, 42; intolerance
and, 42; value of, 43; limits
of, 43.
Suffrage: history, 71. See Votes.
Surveys: for cities, 247; for country,
274.
                    
Tariff : theory of protective, 183;
foreign labor and, 184; practical
aspects, 185; as a compromise,
185; tariff commission, 186; reciprocity,
186.
Taxation: federal, 213; kinds, 214;
state, 239; city, 266.
Territories : government of, 215, 216.
Trades unions: government and, 61 ;
the law and, 232.
Trusts: the question, 187; origin,
188; methods, 189; federal law
against, 189;   present theories,
190 ff.; state laws about, 235-236.
                    
Unemployment: provision of work,
231.
                    
Voters: registration of, 150; increase
in power of, 162, 167.
Votes: for men, 65 ff.; for negroes,
70; for women, 71; present restrictions
on, 72; foreign, 73.
                    
Wages: factory system and, 16-17;
wages system, 18; influence on
family life, 24; free speech and,
41; relation to poverty, 229 ; the
minimum, 231.
War: cost, 207; war against war,
207; responsibility of President,
208.
Watchers at elections: purpose of,
154; women as, 155.
Women: as mothers, 26 ff.; as wage-
earners, 27; pay of, 27; law and,
31; as wives, 31; and property
rights, 32; as voters, 32; in the
courts, 249.
                    

                    

                    

                    
                    
THE following pages contain advertisements of a
few of the Macmillan books on kindred subjects.
                    
                    



                    
                    

                    
                    
                    
A NEW HIGH SCHOOL TEXT IN ECONOMICS
                    
Elements of Economics for High Schools

By HENRY REED BURCH, PH.D.
                                        
Director of the School of Commerce in the West Philadelphia High School for Boys
AND
SCOTT NEARING, PH.D.
Instructor in Economics in the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia
Cloth, 12mo, xvi + 363 pages, $1.00 net
                                        
This book is written for the high school course in Economics from the
high school standpoint. It is live, concrete, and suggestive, and it will appeal
to the high school student as no book prepared from a different point of
view can do.
The Burch and Nearing text is, moreover, thoroughly American and thoroughly
up-to-date. Here we find a live treatment of such vital questions as
the conservation of natural resources, the problems of immigration, the trust
and the railroad, the effects of monopoly on price, and finally, the various experiments
and programs of economic reform embracing such movements as
profit-sharing, government regulation, and the socialization of land and
capital.
While economic principles are given proper emphasis and careful treatment,
the beginner is not lost in a maze of theory. The book is filled with
living realities.
Professor J. Lynn Barnard of the School of Pedagogy, Philadelphia, says:
"I consider this book remarkable for its clearness, simplicity, and inclusiveness."
This clearness of thought and simplicity of expression are apparent
even in the discussion of such abstract phases of the subject as value, price,
and the theories of distribution. Throughout the whole book a sound and
thorough comprehension of economic principles has been combined with such
simplicity of treatment as to fit the work especially for high school conditions.
From a pedagogical standpoint, a distinctive and admirable feature of this
text book is the outline preceding each chapter and the marginal notes
throughout the chapter corresponding to the topics in the outline. It is difficult
to conceive of a method of presentation more conducive to logical study,
clearness of thought, and ease of comprehension.
                                        

                                        
                                        
THE MACMILLAN COMPANY

Publishers  64-66   Fifth Avenue  New York
                                        



                    

                    
Contemporary American History
1877-1913
                                        
By CHARLES A. BEARD
                    
Associate Professor of Politics in Columbia University
                    
Cloth, 12mo, $1.50 net
                    
This volume covers the history of the United States from the
close of the Reconstruction Period to the inauguration of President
Wilson. Although the work is historical in character, it is
written from the point of view of contemporary affairs and designed
to furnish a background for the leading issues of current
politics. Such matters as the negro question, the industrial revolution,
capitalism and socialism, free silver and populism, direct
government, woman suffrage, the growth of judicial review, new
nationalism, imperialism, the labor movement, Mr. Roosevelt's
policies, the progressive movement, and "the new freedom" are
treated in a historical manner, with a view to placing the leading
facts before students and engaging their interest. A carefully selected
bibliography affords a handy guide to additional reading.
                    
This is the only work of moderate compass covering the period,
and will meet the needs of those alert teachers who endeavor to
link their historical instruction with the living present. It will also
make feasible the establishment of the new course of instruction in
contemporary history and politics which is now demanded in so
many quarters. Although designed primarily as a guide for a college
course, it may be used with profit as a collateral work in high
school courses in American history and politics. The absence of
the earmarks of the textbook will also make the volume acceptable
to the general reader.
                    


THE MACMILLAN COMPANY
                    
Publishers    64-66 Fifth Avenue   New York





                    
                    
                    
American Government and Politics

BY CHARLES A. BEARD
                                        
Associate Professor of Politics in Columbia University
                                        
New and Revised Edition, Cloth, crown 8vo, index, $2.10 net
                                        
A work designed primarily for college students, but of considerable interest
to the general reader. Full attention has been paid to topics that have been
forced into public attention by the political conditions of the present time.
A special feature is the page references made to the author's "Readings in
American Government and Politics."
In this revised edition the author has recorded the leading changes of the
last four years, with special emphasis on local tendencies and general principles.
                                        
"The great merit of the work is its absence of dogmatism. It gives exactly
what it pretends to give, a clear, scholarly review, first of the history of
our political system and secondly of its practical operation. .. . The book
can be highly recommended."--The Nation.
                                        
"The citizen who gives it a careful reading will arise from it a better citizen
. . . . It is, in brief, a truly notable book, and one that was long needed."
- Baltimore Sun.
                                        

                    

                                        
Readings in American Government and Politics
                                        
New and Revised Edition, Cloth, crown 8vo, $1.90 net
                                        
A collection of interesting material illustrative of the different periods in
the history of the United States, prepared for those students who desire to
study source writings.
The author has brought the work abreast of current questions by adding
extracts from the party platform of 1912 and selections illustrating presidential
preference primaries, changes in the procedure of the House of Representatives,
the recall, and the recall of judicial decisions. The Constitution, with
the latest amendments, has been included.
                    
"The volume will be useful as a textbook and convenient for reference by
those who wish to have an intelligent conception of our political life and
history."--Education.
                    
"The book affords a very valuable adjunct to the work of instruction in
American history and political science."--The Dial.
                    
"The work is well planned and well executed."--The Nation.


                    
THE MACMILLAN COMPANY

Publishers  64-66 Fifth Avenue   New York
                    
                    



                    

                    
 BY CHARLES A. BEARD
                                        
Associate Professor of Politics in Columbia University
                                        

                    

                                        
An Economic Interpretation of the
Constitution of the United States
                                        
Cloth, 8vo, vii + 330 pp., $2.25 net
                                        
Professor Beard has examined original documents and other sources not
hitherto investigated and has discovered a great many interesting facts bearing
on the conditions which influenced the shaping of the Constitution.
                                        
"Replete with human interest and compact with information of impor-
tance to every student of American history or of political science."--Annals
ofthe American Academy of Political and Social Science.
                                        

                    

                                        
The Supreme Court and the Constitution
                    
Cloth, 12mo, $1.00 net; postpaid, $1.08
                    
"The book is by far the most valuable contribution that has yet been made
to this intensely interesting subject."--Annals of the American Academy.
                    
"For a brief and quite impersonal piece of historical research the book is
eminently readable and should find a wider audience than that of lawyers and
historians alone."--The Independent.
                    



                    


Documents on the State-wide
Initiative, Referendum, and Recall

By CHARLES A. BEARD, Associate Professor of Politics in Columbia University,
and BIRL E. SHULTZ, Indiana Scholar in Political Science in Columbia University

Cloth, 12mo, 394 pp., $2.00 net

This volume includes all of the constitutional amendments providing for a
statewide system of initiative and referendum now in force, several of the most
significant statutes elaborating the constitutional provisions, all of the constitutional
amendments now pending adoption, six important judicial decisions,
and certain materials relative to the state-wide recall.
                    


THE MACMILLAN COMPANY

Publishers     64-66 Fifth Avenue       New York


                    
                                 
                                    
  
                                        

   
