
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Biddle, Horace P. (Horace Peters), 1811-1900.. Elements of knowledge. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2010).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAB8225
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		

			


			


				ELEMENTS OF KNOWLEDGE
				


			


			



			
			
				

					ELEMENTS OF KNOWLEDGE.

				

				
					BY
					
					HORACE P. BIDDLE.
					
				


				
					All thought is Inspiration, All truth is Revelation.
				



				
					CINCINNATI:
					ROBERT CLARKE & CO.
					1881.
				

			

			
			
				
				Copyright, 1881, By HORACE P. BIDDLE.


				

			

			
			
				CONTENTS.

				


					
						CHAPTER I.
						KNOWLEDGE
						1
						
					

					
						CHAPTER II.
						GOD
						16
						
					

					
						CHAPTER III.
						CREATION
						21
						
					

					
						CHAPTER IV.
						PHIILOSOPHY
						36
						
					

					
						CHAPTER V.
						SCIENCE
						74
						
					

					
						CHAPTER VI.
						ART
						80
						
					

					
						CHAPTER VII.
						LITERATURE
						89
						
					

					
						CHAPTER VIII.
						GOVERNMENT
						111
						
					

					
						CHAPTER IX.
						MORALS
						147
						
					

					
						CHAPTER X.
						RELIGION
						
						206
						
					

				
			
		
		
			Elements of knowledge
				

				

				

					CHAPTER I.
					
					
						KNOWLEDGE.
					

					SEC. 1. The foundation of knowledge is consciousness; the beginning
						and ending of knowledge is consciousness; knowledge is consciousness, nothing more,
						nothing less, nothing else.
					SEC. 2. Consciousness is a trinity: 1, that which is conscious; 2,
						the consciousness; 3, that of which it is conscious; for there can be no consciousness
						without there being something which is conscious, and something of which it is
						conscious; but that which is conscious may be both subject and object.
					SEC. 3. There must be something to know that there is something; it
						is impossible for nothing to know that there is nothing.
					SEC. 4. Whether the consciousness comes through sense, mind, soul,
						or by intuition, it is the same; consciousness being the first, last, and only thing,
						which we know.
					SEC. 5. The complete circle of knowledge is: 1, consciousness; 2,
						consciousness of phenomena; 3, consciousness of the co-existence of other phenomena; 4.
						consciousness of the succession of phenomena; 5, consciousness of the similarity of
						phenomena; and 6, consciousness of the difference between phenomena. The most abstruse
						and complex knowledge consists of consciousness, and the above relations of phenomena to
						consciousness, and of nothing more. Not invention,  nor
						fancy, nor imagination, nor any other faculty of the mind, can go beyond.
					SEC. 6. The first and lowest degree of knowledge is consciousness,
						without the consciousness of any other consciousness; the second degree is consciousness
						with the consciousness of some other consciousness; the third is consciousness with the
						consciousness of some other consciousness, and with the consciousness of their relation;
						the fourth is consciousness with the consciousness of some other consciousness, and the
						consciousness of their relation, and also the consciousness that that relation may be
						changed; the fifth is consciousness with the consciousness of some other consciousness,
						and the consciousness of their relation, and the consciousness that that relation may be
						changed, and also the consciousness of the manner in which that change may take place;
						the sixth and highest degree of knowledge is consciousness with the consciousness of
						some other consciousness, and the consciousness of their relation, and the consciousness
						that that relation never can be changed. This degree amounts to abstract truth which is
						self-evident, and can not be otherwise than it is.
					In shorter terms: first, consciousness; second,----of some other consciousness;
						third,----of their relation; fourth,----that that relation may be changed; fifth,
						----the manner of that change; and sixth,----that that relation never can be changed.
						This is Absolute, the Unconditioned, the All-truth.
					SEC. 7. Knowledge must not be confounded with truth, for we are
						conscious of error as well as of truth. Truth is the harmony of consciousness; error is
						the discord of consciousness. Where the consciousness  of
						one thing accords with the consciousness of another thing, there is truth; when the
						consciousness of one thing will not accord with the consciousness of another thing,
						there is error.
					SEC. 8. The beginning of knowledge is the consciousness of self;
						next, the consciousness of something not self; and ultimately, the consciousness of
						matter and its forces, and of mind and its attributes; and this is all that man can
						know. The beginning, the ending, and the essence of things are, and must forever be,
						unknown to man.
					SEC. 9. Something appears to our consciousness which we call matter,
						and what we call matter appears to be continually changing. This ever-changing
						appearance is what we call the universe. We know nothing of things except these
						phenomena.
					SEC. 10. Knowledge is absolute or relative. Absolute knowledge is
						consciousness in a state of repose which can not be disturbed. This is abstract truth,
						the affirmation of which excludes the negation--as numbers, quantities. Relative
						knowledge is consciousness in repose, but which may be disturbed. This is applied truth,
						the affirmation of which does not exclude the negation--as philosophy, and the practical
						sciences. Yet, absolute knowledge can not be known to man. As his knowledge is limited
						to his consciousness, and that is limited to his condition, hence, all his knowledge is
						conditional.

					SEC. 11. Knowledge is consciousness; philosophy is consciousness of phenomena;
						science is consciousness or order in phenomena; art is consciousness of adaptation in
						phenomena of design; morals is consciousness of obedience to phenomena; religion is  consciousness of God in phenomena, and of being in harmony
						with Him.
					SEC. 12. Knowledge embraces only things and actions, their relations
						and qualities; language expresses only things and actions, their relations and
						qualities; thought can not go beyond things and actions, their relations and qualities;
						man can know nothing except things and actions, their relations and qualities; there is
						nothing in the universe but things and actions, their relations and" qualities.
					SEC. 13. The absolute can not be included in the conditional, yet
						the conditional may exist within the absolute. The infinite can not exist within the
						finite, yet the finite is included in the infinite. The eternal can not be comprehended
						within the temporal, yet the temporal is included within the eternal. This is fixed
						truth, and can not be otherwise.
					SEC. 14. Consciousness is not merely a phenomenon, because it is
						impossible for us to be conscious that we are unconscious; while we may be conscious of
						a phenomenon, which, as a reality, does not exist. Consciousness, therefore, is the only
						absolute reality to man.

					SEC. 15. There is no knowledge previous or subsequent to, nor above,
						below, beyond, nor external to consciousness. It includes all perception, conception,
						passion, emotion, thought, memory, reason, judgment, idea. We see, hear, taste, smell,
						and feel by consciousness. Philosophy, science, art, literature, government, morals,
						religion, are but well ordered consciousness. Without consciousness we could have no
						knowledge of ourselves, nor any evidence of a world external to us, nor is it possible
						to prove any thing beyond our  consciousness; but
						consciousness proves itself by itself. It is subject, object, witness, judge. We can not
						be conscious without becoming conscious of our consciousness, and without consciousness
						we do not exist even to ourselves. Neither the greatest nor the smallest thing in the
						universe can be known to us except through consciousness. Though we are conscious of an
						external world, yet our consciousness being all the evidence we can have of the fact, it
						is impossible to prove the existence of an external world. All we know is our
						consciousness that there is an external world. All human knowledge is merely the
						consciousness of phenomena.
					SEC. 16. We can not know that we know, but we can be conscious that
						we are conscious; indeed it is impossible to be unconscious that we are conscious. We
						know that we are conscious of the existence of things, but we can not know that the
						things themselves exist; for consciousness of the existence of things may exist without
						the existence of the things themselves; but the consciousness can not exist without the
						existence of the consciousness itself; therefore, the consciousness is all we know. And
						this test may be applied to our mental operations as well as to our sensations; as well
						to absolute knowledge, the affirmation of which excludes the negation, as to relative
						knowledge, the negation of which is not necessarily excluded by the affirmation. Let any
						one contemplate a mathematical problem, and he will find that he has no evidence of its
						truth, nor of the truth that it can not be otherwise, except the consciousness of its
						truth, and the consciousness of the truth that it can not be otherwise. In like manner
						the deductions from all our  knowledge will leave us at last
						nothing but consciousness. All physical, mental, moral, and spiritual phenomena rest
						upon consciousness alone.
					SEC. 17. All that man knows is his own consciousness. By this he
						perceives phenomena; in phenomena he perceives order, design, adaptation. Herein lies
						the scope of his knowledge, and he can no more get beyond it than the radius can go
						beyond the circle it describes. But the knowledge to him is the same as if phenomena
						were substance.
					SEC. 18. Consciousness can not be defined, because nothing within
						our knowledge precedes it by which it can be defined. The consciousness of seeing,
						hearing, tasting, smelling, feeling, color, sound, pain, pleasure, thought, idea, fear,
						hope, soul, God, defy all attempts at definition. Consciousness is known by
						consciousness. This is all we know about it.
					SEC. 19. We see with the eye, yet it is not the eye that knows we
						see; we hear with the ear, yet it is not the ear that knows we hear; so of all the
						senses. The senses are several, the consciousness is one; the things of which we are
						conscious are infinite, yet the consciousness is one.
					SEC. 20. We are conscious that we see, hear, taste, touch, smell;
						and we are conscious that the seeing, hearing, tasting, touching, smelling, are
						something different from the consciousness itself: We are conscious of pain, pleasure,
						desire, aversion, love, hate; and we are conscious that the pain, pleasure, desire,
						aversion, love, hate, are something which is not the consciousness itself. And we are
						conscious that we imagine, understand, reason, judge, and that the imagining,
						understanding, reasoning, judging, are something  which is
						not the consciousness itself. But when we are merely conscious of being conscious, we
						can not separate the state of being conscious from the consciousness itself; and when we
						are conscious of knowledge we can not separate the knowledge from the consciousness
						itself. The consciousness of being conscious, and the consciousness of knowledge are the
						same. That is, we can not be conscious that the consciousness of any thing the senses
						feel, or the mind perceives, is different from the knowledge of any thing the senses
						feel, or the mind perceives. Therefore consciousness is knowledge, and knowledge is
						consciousness, and both must be one and the same.
					SEC. 21. There is many a fact which can not be proved except by
						itself, simply because there is no known evidence preceding it by which to establish its
						existence. Its existence proves itself.

					SEC. 22. Although consciousness is the limit of human knowledge, yet
						we are conscious that there is something of which we are not conscious. What that
						something is we can not know, yet as truth is never inconsistent with itself, the
						unknown can never be inconsistent with the known. The unknown goes beyond the known but
						can not contradict it.
					SEC. 23. It is impossible for any sentient being to conceive of any
						thing greater than its own capacity. Even man's conception of God is no more than that
						of a Being having the attributes of man, only omnipotent, infinite, and eternal; and his
						highest conception of him makes God but little more than the Pagan makes of his ideal,
						and is no evidence of what He is.
					SEC. 24. Omniscience does not reason--He knows. Reason is the means
						by which man may know one  thing by first having known some
						other thing; but the first knowledge we acquire is always without reasoning. 
					SEC. 25. If phenomena may exist without substance, then may the
						consciousness of phenomena exist without phenomena; thus man is driven to his
						consciousness as the primum and ultimatum of his knowledge.
					SEC. 26. There can be no knowledge of matter without spirit--of
						substance without attribute--of body without soul; nor can there be any knowledge of
						spirit without matter--of attribute without substance --of soul without body.
						Materialism and idealism are not inconsistent with one another; they are as halves of
						the same whole, and both are necessary to complete either. We can have no knowledge of
						either without a knowledge of the other.
					SEC. 27. Although the mind can not comprehend the All-knowing, the
						Every-where present, the All-powerful, the Infinite, and Eternal, yet it has a knowledge
						which wants nothing but increase to be All-knowing, a presence which wants nothing but
						enlargement to be Every-where present, a power that wants nothing but addition to be
						All-powerful, a space which wants nothing but expansion to be Infinite, and a time which
						wants nothing but duration to become Eternal. And we can think of nothing outside of
						time and space, yet we can think of those things within time and space which want
						nothing but increase, enlargement, addition, expansion, and duration to exist beyond
						time and space as we now understand them.
					SEC. 28. We can have no knowledge of time without consciousness, and
						no knowledge of space without  matter. Time is successive
						consciousness, space is extended matter. Time to consciousness is the same as extension
						to matter. There can be no matter without extension; there can be no consciousness
						without time.

					SEC. 29. Our conception of the existence of truth is that it is,
						was, and must be; that there never was a time nor place when and where it was not, and
						never can be a time or place where and when it is not. It is the only principle which
						has no opposite. A lie can not exist--it only appears; and this is the same in
						phenomenon or entity, and in the abstract or concrete. Truth is consciousness consistent
						with itself in every relation; error is consciousness inconsistent with itself in some
						one relation.
					SEC. 30. The only criterion of abstract truth is that which is
						self-evident by the laws of consciousness, and that which follows as a logical sequence
						from this self-evident truth.
					SEC. 31. Truth is absolute and unconditioned. Material creation is
						relative and conditioned. Any roposition which can be conceived to be otherwise than it
						is, is not absolute and unconditioned truth. Every proposition in material creation can
						be conceived to be otherwise than it is; it is therefore relative and conditioned truth.
						No proposition of abstract truth can be conceived to be otherwise than it is.
					SEC. 32. Whatever might be true in fact, though in fact not true, is
						yet truth; that is, whatever might be true in the concrete is always true in the
						abstract. Spheres and cubes exist every-where, and continually in the abstract, yet are
						seldom seen in the concrete: the statute of Franklin existed in the abstract always,  though never was seen in the concrete until it was made.
					SEC. 33. There is no basis for fixed knowledge except truth. Belief
						without truth is an ignus fatuus; truth without belief is a snare.
					SEC. 34. Knowledge and learning are not the same. We learn many
						things which we do not know, and know many things which we do not learn; and there are
						many learned men who are not wise, and many wise men who are not learned.
					SEC. 35. Reason is not knowledge, but the means by which we obtain
						knowledge. From immediate knowledge by means of reason, we obtain remote knowledge which
						we could not otherwise reach.
					SEC. 36. Reason and faith alike stand upon consciousness; whatever
						convinces the reason, commands the faith; but faith may go beyond reason and convince
						vince us of what reason can not reach; yet, faith must not contradict reason. Truth
						being consistent, knowledge by faith will not be inconsistent with knowledge by reason,
						though reason may not comprehend it.
					SEC. 37. Whoever knows facts and understands their relations, at
						once perceives truth and error, right and wrong, good and bad, beauty and ugliness.
					SEC. 38. Judgment is that faculty of consciousness which ascertains
						the relations of the various things, of which we are conscious, to one another.
					SEC. 39. It is impossible for the mind to form any judgment
						concerning that of which it has no knowledge; and concerning things of which we know
						nothing it is as unwise to deny assertions as it is to affirm them.
					SEC. 40. Truth is the same whether spoken by an  idiot or an angel, by reason or inspiration, by discovery or revelation; or
						whether it remains silent, or is proclaimed aloud; or whether known or unknown; for it
						is unchangeable and eternal.
					SEC. 41. There must be in the nature of things an absolute,
						infinite, and eternal criterion of truth, but man can not completely and entirely
						ascertain it in all things--he is finite. It can be perfectly known in a1l things only
						to Him who is omniscient. Man may obtain certain and complete knowledge of a few things,
						a less perfect knowledge of more things, and some knowledge of many things, and thus
						approach the standard of universal truth, which, concerning things within human
						cognizance, must be regarded as the highest human criterion of truth; but as to the
						infinite number of things beyond the reach of man, " all that can be known is that
						nothing can be known."
					SEC. 42. The conclusion of every true proposition affirms the
						premises. When this truth is not self-evident in the statement of the proposition, it is
						the business of reason to make it appear. Thus, in the proposition that all the parts
						are equal to the whole, the truth of the conclusion affirms the premises is
						self-evident, for it is but saying that the whole is equal to the whole; but in the
						proposition that the three angles of an equilateral triangle are equal to two right
						angles, the truth that the conclusion affirms the premises is not self-evident; but by a
						process of reasoning can be made clearly to appear, and when once thus wished, the truth
						that the conclusion affirms the premises appears as clearly as it does in the
						self-evident proposition.


					
					SEC. 43. Any proposition, the negative of which is inconceivable, is
						pure truth.
					SEC. 44. Until we become omniscient, omnipotent infinite, and
						eternal, there will be something that we do not know, something which we can not do,
						some place where we can not be, and some time we can not reach.
					SEC. 45. Whatever we are conscious of which is palpable to sense, we
						call matter; whatever we are conscious of which is impalpable to sense, we call spirit;
						but all we know of either is the consciousness itself. Sense, feeling, passion, thought,
						understanding, reason, judgment, imagination, right, wrong, good, evil, pleasure, pain,
						fear, hope, faith, and all the faculties of the mind and soul are but different modes of
						consciousness.
					SEC. 46. The sources of knowledge are three: 1. Consciousness; 2.
						Sensation; 3. Reflection. The means of acquiring knowledge are three: 1. Self-evident
						truth; 2. Deductions from self-evident truth; 3. Experience. From these sources and
						through these means comes the entire circle of human knowledge. 
					SEC. 47. Most men spend a great portion of their lives endeavoring
						to know what can not be known, and thereby neglect what can be known. The highest lesson
						which man can learn is to understand his own capacity, and the wisest precept he can
						follow is not to attempt to go beyond its limits.
					SEC. 48. We may know a little of many things, but can not know all
						of any thing; and the best of what we know is what we do not learn and can not
						teach.


					
					SEC. 49. Whatever object of knowledge man may pursue, however
						thoroughly he may investigate it, and however fully he may understand it, there will
						always be something concerning it that to him is unknown. There is no beginning that has
						not its beginning, no depth that has not a deeper depth, no height that has not a higher
						height, and no beyond that has not something beyond it still. "
					SEC. 50. The black wall of ignorance surrounds every human being. It
						is a little farther off from some than others, but alike impenetrable to all. The
						infants scarcely sees its mother's face, the vision of the philosopher may take in the
						heavens, but the great beyond is alike hidden from both.
					SEC. 51. There may be processes of thought without consciousness, as
						there are processes of life without sensation, but they must appear within the domain of
						consciousness before they become knowledge.
					SEC. 52. Consciousness is the tablet on which all knowledge of man
						must be written, whether of sense, mind, soul, or intuition.
					SEC. 53. We should work through the transitory into the permanent,
						from agitation to repose, from the conditional to the absolute.
					SEC. 54. Knowledge is the lever of the mind, and truth its fulcrum;
						and reasoning is merely using mental levers to raise great thoughts.
					SEC. 55. The best and surest knowledge we possess is that which
						transcends the senses--which we can neither see, hear, taste, smell, nor touch.
					SEC. 56. The most perfect human knowledge only removes our ignorance
						a little farther from us; and all the knowledge we gain only. teaches us our ignorance
							 more plainly; but it is better to know half, than to
						half know.
					SEC. 57. Beyond phenomena man can know nothing, for he is nothing
						but a phenomenon himself.
					SEC. 58. The wise often possess knowledge which the ignorant could
						not suddenly bear to know.
					SEC. 59. In gaining the wealth of knowledge we take from no one, and
						in imparting it to others it grqws no less.
					SEC. 60. The greatest part of human knowledge is open alike and
						common to both sexes. Yet there is much peculiar to women and unknown to men, and much
						peculiar to man which woman can not know. There can be, therefore, no complete system of
						knowledge known to any one individual person unless that person could be, at the same
						time, both man and woman, and have experienced the entire circle of knowledge known to
						both sexes. Hence it is that man and woman, in some things, must forever remain a most
						interesting mystery to one another.
					SEC. 61. Instinct is the knowledge of the body, reason is the
						knowledge of the mind, faith is the knowledge of the soul.
					SEC. 62. Consciousness is all there is of life, for not to be
						conscious is not to live.
					SEC. 63. Knowledge dispels hope. When we know nothing we hope all,
						when we know all we hope nothing.
					SEC. 64. The path of knowledge lies upon a rugged mountain. The
						highest point the human intellect can attain is far below the summit. All that man can
						do is to stay about its base and gaze up the steep in wonder and astonishment.


					
					SEC. 65. The mountain of knowledge continually rises as we advance.
						We see before us an eminence from which we fondly believe we can survey the whole field;
						when we arrive there it has receded, but still stands invitingly before us. Thus we
						travel on, pursuing our object through life, and at last, wearied hd still ignorant, we
						lie down in our graves to rest forever.

				




				
				
					CHAPTER II.
					
					
						GOD.
					

					SEC. 1. Man, being finite, and having no knowledge of the origin of
						things, as a postulate for the basis of his knowledge, must assume either that the
						universe always existed, or that it was created by a First Cause; neither of which
						propositions is inconsistent with the being of God; therefore, we predicate that God
						was, is, and must be; without Him nothing was, is, or can be.
					SEC. 2. The finite mind must of necessity have a beginning. Man in
						his religion assumes a God; in his philosophy, a First Cause; in his science, a fixed
						Law. Neither can be proved a priori--for nothing precedes them; either
						may be proved a posteriori--for every thing succeeds them.
					SEC. 3. Human reason can make God only a predicate. The senses can
						not perceive Him, the mind can not embrace Him, no human faculty can know Him;. but that
						which is, could not have been, and can not be, without Him.
					SEC. 4. God escapes the senses, transcends the understanding, and is
						known only through consciousness. 
					SEC. 5. We can know God only according to our own consciousness, not
						as He is.
					SEC. 6. God is the abstract of the universal concrete. 

					
					SEC. 7. That God is, God was, and God will be, are simply forms of
						speech relative to finite things. Is is infinite and eternal. Now and
						Then, Here and There, do not exist; they are but finite relatives. As to God, all Is,
						Now, Here.
					SEC. 8. God did not create Himself, and can not uncreate Himself. He
						was, is, and must be.
					SEC. 9. God is the First Cause, the Last Cause, the All-cause, the
						only Cause.
					 SEC. 10. God is the postulate of all human reasoning. We can not
						account for God without the universe, nor for the universe without God.
					SEC. 11. Spirit is unknown power. God is Spirit.
					SEC. 12. God, being The All, His attributes are inconsistent with
						personalty; for that which is infinite and omnipresent can not be personal.
					SEC. 13. God is Infinite and Eternal Truth, Infinite and Eternal
						Power, Infinite and Eternal Goodness, Infinite and Eternal Love.
					SEC. 14. God being infinite, there never was, and never can be, any
						thing but God--for the infinite includes all things, and there can be nothing beyond the
						infinite. God being eternal, was, is, and must be--for that which had a beginning or can
						have an end, can not be eternal.
					SEC. 15. God is the infinite and eternal consciousness; individual
						sentient beings are points of consciousness in time and space.
					SEC. 16. Man can never comprehend God. Omniscience, omnipresence,
						and omnipotence can be comprehended only by omniscience, omnipresence, and omnipotence.
						The finite can never embrace the infinite, nor the temporal include the eternal.


					

					SEC. 17. Nothing less than God can know there is a God; nothing less
						than God can know there is no God.
					SEC. 18. As it would require an infinite mind to comprehend God, so
						it would require an infinite mind to know there is no God--for the finite mind can not
						know what is beyond itself. As far as the finite mind can know, it knows there is a God;
						and, being finite, it can not know there is no God. This is the highest knowledge we can
						have that there is a God--for what we do not know can not disprove what we do know.
					SEC. 19. God can not be known by the senses; He can not be
						comprehended by the understanding; His existence can not be proved by reason; He can not
						be conceived by the imagination. Yet all of these faculties reach toward Him, and concur
						as evidence of His existence.
					SEC. 20. We find the evidence of God on earth, in nature, throughout
						the universe, in philosophy, science, art, literature, history, government, morals,
						religion; in all things.
					SEC. 21. God to the child is but a Great Father, to the school boy a
						Great Teacher, to the sage but a Greater Sage. To the wise, he is the Great Ruler; to
						the ignorant, the Great Wonder; to the good, a Protector; to the bad, a Terror; to the
						religionist, whatever his creed makes Him; to the superstitious, whatever his fear
						prefigures; to the infidel, nothing. At the best, man can consider of God only as having
						the attributes of man, but in an infinite degree. Omniscience, omnipotence,
						omnipresence, infinity, eternity, remain to man but words, for he has not the capacity
						to understand their meaning.


					
					SEC. 22. There is nothing supernatural with God. Man's ignorance
						makes whatever is above his comprehension appear supernatural to him.
					SEC. 23. To the mind of God contemplating the universe as a unit,
						there is no discord, no incongruity; nothing but truth, goodness, and beauty.
					SEC. 24. Man can contemplate the universe from his own position
						only. If he stood either higher or lower in the scale of being, all things would
						doubtless appear different to him from what they do now. He must not, therefore, regard
						his own mind as the universal standard of knowledge, nor his soul as the only measure of
						infinite justice.
					SEC. 25. There is no first word nor last word with God. His creation
						is a constant utterance.
					SEC. 26. God and the universe are always before us. Every thing is
						open and to be known; but our capacities are so small, and our understandings so weak,
						that we can not receive the knowledge.
					SEC. 27. Truth is the law of God; knowledge is understanding the law
						of God ; goodness is obedience to the law of God; beauty is the law of God which pleases
						the soul; happiness is living in harmony with the law of God, and in enjoying the Truth,
						Goodness, and Beauty of His Works.
					SEC. 28. The Creator has the same care for one human being as for
						another; the same care for one created thing as for another; the same care for an atom
						as for the universe ; the same care for the falling leaf as for the ascending soul.
					SEC. 29. Our Great Teacher is God, whose spirit is continually
						whispering to the mind, the heart, and the soul of man. His great Book, the universe, is
							 continually open before us, in which we may read before
						we can speak words, and which contains the simplest and the grandest lessons of life. In
						the presence of this Teacher, and with this Book before us, how insignificant become the
						teachings of the most learned sages and the highest wisdom of man.
					SEC. 30. The consciousness of God which springs up in the soul, and
						continually abides within us, is stronger evidence of His existence, power, and goodness
						than can be found in all the Vedas, Bibles, Testaments, Gospels, Revelations, Korans,
						Inspirations, and Prophecies on earth, and more ennobling to the human race than all the
						creeds and dogmas theology ever invented.

				

				


				
					CHAPTER III.
					
					
						CREATION.
					


					SEC. 1. The universe is the concrete of which God is the
						abstract.
					SEC. 2. Creation is the thought of God made manifest in matter.
					SEC. 3. Concerning the origin of matter, and the cause of its
						forces, the philosopher knows no more than the fool.
					SEC. 4. Man can never know whether the universe was created out of
						nothing, or whether it always existed; nor can he know whether it is eternal or whether
						it will cease to exist. As far as man can know, he knows that something can not be
						created out of nothing, and that something can not be uncreated into nothing. Indeed,
						man can not prove that there is a universe, or any thing external to him, except by his
						own consciousness. His consciousness of of a universe is the only universe to him.
					SEC. 5. Given matter and its forces, creation is inevitable and
						ceases to be a mystery. The mystery lies in matter and its forces. These are the first
						and ultimate causes as far as can be known to man.
					SEC. 6. The four elements of the ancients--earth, air, fire, and
						water--have been subdivided by modern science into nearly seventy, which include the
						metals, earths, solids, fluids, gasses--in short, all the known elements. Some of them,
						as science advances, will  doubtless be still farther
						subdivided, while some may be united and found to be the same. The earth, and all that
						is in it, or belongs to it, are made of the above elements; and there is much evidence
						tending to show that the other planets, the sun, and all that belongs to our solar
						system, are made of the same material. What other systems, and other parts of the
						universe, are made of, it is impossible for man to know.
					SEC. 7. The various kinds of matter which compose the universe, are
						but different combinations of the same elements; and the various forces which govern
						matter are but different manifestations of the same Force, Power, Law, Spirit, Soul,
						God.
					SEC. 8. In the order of phenomena it is impossible to distinguish
						between design and adaptation. Man can not know whether the system of nature which
						surrounds him was ordered by design or adjusted by adaptation. He has no knowledge of
						design beyond his own consciousness. Instinct in animals, and growth of vegetation, have
						no more consciousness of design, than has gravitation, or chemical affinity; yet the
						beaver is a scientist, and the bee a geometrician, and the grandest tree, or the
						simplest flower, makes no mistake in its growth.
					SEC. 9. If the universe was created by the force of adaptation, the
						adaptation must have been self-sustaining, or it would not exist; and if by design, it
						could be no more--for design is adaptation, though adaptation may not be design.
						Creation is adaptation. Creation by design is conscious creation; creation by adaptation
						is unconscious creation ; the only difference being between conscious and unconscious
						creation.

					SEC. 10. Adaptation is not necessarily design. In  nature, with indestructible matter, acted upon by
						inextinguishable force, adaptation becomes inevitable. It is mpossible to distinguish
						between design and adaptation, unless we know the beginning and end of of the things
						designed or adapted. Whatever relation of things, succession of events, or order in
						nature, becomes established, it would appear to man as design. Cause and effect have no
						other proof of their connection than their unform relation to one another. The universe
						is but an equilibrium of matter and its force.
					SEC. 11. If this universality of things which surrounds us, in its
						broadest generalization and most minute particularity, was not governed by inevitable
						and inexorable law, neither nature, life, man, science, art, government, justice,
						morals, religion, rewards and punishments, or responsibility of any kind, would be
						possible. Responsibility does not lie in the law, but in placing things and actions in
						relation to the law. When the babe is conscious of the existence of the candle, of the
						brightness of its flame, and of a desire to touch it--still being without the
						consciousness that the flame will burn its fingers and give it pain--it puts forth its
						little hand and seizes it. By an inevitable and inexorable law it is burned and pain
						follows. When the additional consciousness of this pain and the cause of it are added to
						its knowledge, it becomes as desirable to the babe to withhold its hand from the flame
						as it was before to seize it; and this change of desire succeedingg the change,
						consciousness follows the same inevitable and exorable law that before caused the desire
						to touch the flame. Thus moral punishment will change the consciousness in fact in its
						relation to the law which punishes, and deter the action, 
						but neither the law of consciousness, nor the law which punishes, is changed in the
						least. So a reward changes the consciousness in its relation to the law that gives the
						reward, and thus invites action. Thus actions are free in fact to put themselves and
						things in relation to law, while the law of actions and things remain inevitable and
						inexorable. And herein lies the freedom of the will, and moral responsibility, while the
						law which governs the will, and creates the responsibility, are inevitable and
						inexorable. This principle will explain the most complex motives or actions in the mind
						or soul of man. God is as much governed by his own inevitable and inexorable law, as
						man, or the minutest molecule of matter. If it were not so God would be a tyrant, man a
						slave, and the universe a chaos, for where order is not there chaos is.
					SEC. 12. All generalizations fall into Matter and Force. Various
						forms of Force, which seem to result from various forces, will ultimately be generalized
						into one Force ; call it Power, Mind, Soul, Spirit, God, what you will.
					SEC. 13. It is no more difficult to understand how matter can be
						created out of nothing, than it is to understand how it can be, without having been
						created. Creation as it is, is no more difficult to understand than it would be if it
						were otherwise than it is.
					SEC. 14. Matter is; with matter Force; from Matter and Force
						arrangement; from arrangement organization; from organization life; from life mind; from
						mind consciousness; from consciousness sense; from sense soul; from soul morals; from
						morals religion.
					SEC. 15. The conditional, finite, and temporal, are subject to time,
						space, and action; the unconditional,  infinite, and
						eternal, are independent of time, space, and action.

					SEC. 16. When man reasons back from the complex universe, he finds
						all the facts converging to the simple One, which he calls the First Cause, or God; when
						he reasons forward from the simple One to the complex universe, he finds all the facts
						diverging from the One, the First Cause, or God; yet man's reason can never reach back
						to the One, nor forward to the All.
					SEC. 17. There never was a time when creation began; there never can
						be a time when it will end. There never was any thing created--it was;
						there never can be any thing destroyed--it is. What man calls creation
						is but a changing of what was, is, and must forever be, from one thing to another.
						Creation is not an accomplished fact; it is a fact continually accomplishing.
					SEC. 18. Without matter and its forces phenomena could not be
						solved; without spirit and its laws there would be neither consciousness, mind, nor
						understanding to solve them.
					SEC. 19. Without a knowledge of matter we could have no knowledge of
						space; without a knowledge of motion we could have no knowledge of time. Space is that
						portion of infinity in which objects exist; time is that portion of eternity in which
						events transpire.
					SEC. 20. One thing can never be another thing. That which is every
						thing can not be created, except by itself; because, being every thing, there is nothing
						else to create it.
					SEC. 21. Each part of the works of God bears a  true relation to every other part, and to the whole, and the whole to each
						part. Every part of the universe is arranged with a view to the safety and benefit of
						the whole; each part, therefore, must perform or endure whatever is necessary to the
						safety and benefit of the whole.
					SEC. 22. It is impossible for the human mind to conceive either the
						beginning or the end of things. It can only grope in the midst of phenomena, knowing
						neither their whence nor their whither.
					SEC. 23. Man's knowledge being finite, must, of necessity, have a beginning.
						The simplest beginning is the proposition that the universe was, is, and must be; for if
						we accept the proposition that God created the universe the same process of reasoning
						will require us to find a creator for God, as well as for the universe, and a creator
						for His creator, and so on, ad infinitum. Admitting the existence of
						God, that He created the universe, and that nothing can exist without a creator, neither
						proves nor explains any thing; for if nothing can exist without a creator, then God also
						must have had His creator, or He could not exist. It is, therefore, less illogical, and
						more direct, to accept the proposition that the universe was, is, and must be.
					SEC. 24. The laws of the universe can not explain its creation; yet
						by the same laws it is eternal. While those laws remain in force it can never cease to
						be. Whatever changes may take place in its parts, as a whole it must forever remain the
						same; and the laws of the universe exist as they are because they can not exist
						otherwise.
					SEC. 25. The phenomena of the universe, as they  are presented to man, are matter and its forces. If, they ever existed in
						chaos, they would, by their own laws, arrange themselves into order and produce the
						universe as it is. The universe, therefore, as it is, is absolute and inevitable.
					SEC. 26. As wonderful as creation is, as it is, it would have been
						no less wonderful had it been otherwise than it is; and it is no more wonderful that
						there is a creation than it would have been had there been no creation. Nothing can
						create nothing. There must be something to create something. Hence, if there is
						something now, there never was a time when there was nothing.
					SEC. 27. Although the human mind can not comprehend the creation,
						yet without a creation it would have been impossible to have conceived of no creation.
						The mind must know something before it can know that there might have been nothing:
					SEC. 28. The universe is a question of is, or is not; and it is
						impossible for the mind to conceive the is not; that is, when there is nothing to
						conceive, and nothing to be conceived, there can be no conception.
					SEC. 29. It is easier to believe in the existence of God as the
						Creator and Ruler of the universe, although it can not be proved, than it is to prove an
						established system of law by which it exists and is maintained. Mankind in their first
						and rudest condition believe in God, while it requires the highest attainment of human
						knowledge, and the last and broadest generalization of science, to establish a belief in
						the reign of Law.
					SEC. 30. Nature proceeds from the fixed and eternal  to the changeful and fleeting, and from the simple to the
						complex.
					SEC. 31. The Absolute must be without conditions, but there may be
						conditions within the Absolute; the Infinite must be without limitation, but there may
						be limitations within the Infinite; the Eternal must be beyond time, yet time is
						included within the Eternal; so there may be relative powers within the All-Power, and
						limited intelligence within the All-Knowing.
					SEC. 32. All things are either matter or spirit. Matter is divisible
						and takes many forms; Spirit is one and forever the same. All created things, however
						diversified, are but different expressions of one Eternal Spirit. The universe is simply
						the adjustment of matter according to its forces, of facts according to law, of the
						material according to the spiritual.
					SEC. 33. It is no harder to conceive of a universe without a creator
						than to conceive of a creator without a universe. If we can not conceive of a universe
						without a creator, then we can not conceive of a creator without a creator. Upon either
						proposition what man can not know still remains unknown. The problem is not solved by
						either.
					SEC. 34. Life is a dynamic process receiving its force from without,
						and imparting it beyond itself. It is a series of subordinated organic motions
						continuously changing its material. Vegetable life is a series of subordinated organic
						insentient motions continually changing its material ; animal life is a series of
						subordinated organic sentient motions continuously changing its material.
					SEC. 35. Nature has its forms; life has its types. Only dead matter
						is inorganic. The eagle's head and  the dolphin's tail can
						never be united in one creature; nor can the snail and bee ever be one.
					SEC. 36. The material of which our bodies are formed belongs to the
						system of the universe as much after our death as while we are in life. The dust we walk
						upon has been thrice alive.
					SEC. 37. There is nothing alive in creation which is not continually
						changing into some other thing. One link supports another in the great chain of being.
						Nothing lives but at the expense of something else. Life can exist in one place only by
						death in some other place. Vegetable life can exist on inorganic matter; animal life can
						exist only upon organic matter. Nature never creates what she can not destroy.
					SEC. 38. Spontaneity in generation is thought by some to exclude a
						creator from the universe; but the existence of the universe, with the power of
						spontaneity in generation, will remain to be accounted for the same as if no such power
						existed. Indeed, spontaneity in generation is the established law. What can be more
						spontaneous, as far as man can see, than the conception, gestation, and birth of a
						child? Every man thinks he begets his own children, but he is quite mistaken. An unseen
						and unknown power, law, principle, spirit, or something in and through the male acting
						upon the female, begets them as effectually as God created Adam, or begat Jesus Christ.
						Spontaneity in generation, if even it is proved, will simply show us another link in the
						chain of cause and effect, the first and last links of which will never be discovered by
						man. They can be known only to the Infinite and Omniscient Mind.
					SEC. 39. Man is a cluster of conscious faculties.  Physical man is merely a few pounds of matter curiously set
						apart from other matter and maintained during his seventy years, and then abandoned to
						dissolution. The body of man is born of matter; his soul is born of the spirit.

					SEC. 40. Each thing, and each action in the universe, has its
						relation to every other thing and action in the universe; and the change of any one
						thing or action in the universe, in its relation to any other thing or action in the
						universe, changes its relation to every other thing or action in the universe. There can
						be no part that does not belong to the whole. This is as true of law as it is of that
						upon which law acts. All the diversity in the effects of law is but the same, namely:
						law acting under different conditions of that upon which it acts. The same law evolves a
						thought or creates a clod--by organizing or disorganizing matter. The laws of life and
						death are but the positive and negative of the same law.
					SEC. 41. Man in the Cosmos knows but little more of the universe
						than the silk-worm in its cocoon.
					SEC. 42. There is no more evidence that man was created to
						understand God, than there is that a brute was created to understand man, or an insect
						the brute.
					SEC. 43. The true type of man is one who posesses all the faculties
						of human nature in due proportion to one another. A great man is one who possesses all
						the faculties in a high degree, and in due proportion; and he is the greatest man who
						possesses all the faculties in the highest degree, and in the truest proportion. Most
						men have all the faculties of human nature, but few possess them in due proportion;  some possess them in due proportion but not in the highest
						degree. There have been a few men who possessed most of the faculties in the highest
						degree, but not in due proportion; there never was one who possessed all the faculties
						in the highest degree, and all in the truest proportion. A compete ideal man would be
						one who is equal in all the human faculties to the highest capacity of any one faculty
						as it is found in the greatest man.
					SEC. 44. Woman ever has been, and ever must be, the most interesting
						being in creation to man; and man ever has been, and ever must be, the most interesting
						being to woman. Neither will ever be fully able to understand the other, for reasons
						which lie too deep in nature to be understood by the human capacity. While they have
						many things in common--as the five senses, some of the sensations, passions, and
						appetites--there are other things which are peculiar to each one. The anatomist
						demonstates the difference between their sexual organs, the physiologist proves the
						differences in their respective functions, and the psychologist plainly traces
						differences in their spritual natures. All that class of passions, desires, and emotions
						in woman, which peculiarly belong to the capacity of maternity, can never be known to
						man, any more than sound can be made known to the deaf, or color to the blind; and
						simply because he has no organs to receive the knowledge. In like manner, and for the
						same reasons, all that class of emotions, desires, and passions in man, peculiar to the
						capacity of paternity, can never be known to woman. Hence their engaging interest in one
						another will be continually  kept up, because the pleasing
						problem and profound mystery must remain forever unsolved.
					SEC. 45. A being purely of thought might be a beautiful creature,
						but humanity needs feeling, sentiment, emotion, passion, as well as thought.
					SEC. 46. Whatsoever there is in man which is of the dust will remain
						of the dust; whatsoever there is in man which is of man will remain of man; whatsoever
						there is in man which is of spirit will remain of the spirit; and whatsoever there is in
						man which is of God will remain of God.
					SEC. 47. The universe is infinite and eternal, yet infinity to man
						can mean no more than continued space, and eternity no more than continued time.
					SEC. 48. If the universe is infinite, there never was and never can
						be any thing but the universe, for the infinite includes all things, and there can be
						nothing beyond the infinite; and if the universe is eternal, it never was created and
						never can be uncreated, for that which had a beginning or may have an end, can not be
						eternal.
					SEC. 49. As all things are involved within the universe, and as all
						changes in the things of the universe are evolved out of the things in the universe,
						involution and evolution within the universe are a continued equation; thus the totality
						of the universe is ever the same, while the relation of the things in the universe are
						never the same; hence, to man, the continual succession of phenomena.
					SEC. 50. There are yet no established facts sufficient to warrant
						the theory of the transmutation of species. It is not proved that any kind of animal
						ever yet went into any other kind. No organic living  thing
						has ever yet been known to take upon itself a new nature. There is a wide margin for
						varieties both in the vegetable and animal kingdoms, but all changes return to the
						original type, and go round in a circle, out of which they never yet have been known to
						pass. Dogs were never yet any thing but dogs, though the varieties are endless and their
						differences very great. Besides, to say that one species may be gradually transmuted
						into another species is to say that there are no species, for that which changes can not
						be specific. We may as well talk of changing properties and still retain them as to
						speak of the transmutation of one species into another. One species must have what
						another has not, or not have what another has, or they are not different species; and
						such a change can not be effected by transmutation--it must be done by adding something
						to, or taking something from. As far as it is yet known, nature, in her scale of being,
						seems to go up and down by steps, not by an inclined plane; and whether she effects such
						changes by her own processes, or whether it is done by the particular fiat of the
						creator, we can not know.
					SEC. 51. In all the works of creation there is a complete unity of
						purpose. The existence of the universe proves its eternal fitness.
					SEC. 52. Life is not an entity; it is a principle and process. It
						does not belong to the body, which is alive, any more than it does to all other similar
						bodies which are alive. When the given body is no longer fitted to receive the
						principle, and be carried on by the process, it dies; the principle remains forever.
					SEC. 53. That which creates is the thing which it  creates, potentially; and the thing which it creates is of
						the thing which creates it.
					SEC. 54. It is very doubtful whether the peaceful, innocent,
						harmless dust of which man is made would consent to receive life, with its cares and
						responsibilities, its pains and penalties, if it had the power of ante-natal choice. But
						it must obey the fiat to live, love, suffer and die. 
					SEC. 55. Life is as inevitable as death. There can be no more death
						than life, for there must be life before there can be death.
					SEC. 56. Each human being has something of what belongs to all human
						beings. The weak and the strong, the wise and the foolish, the beautiful and the ugly,
						the good and the bad, even the murderer and his victim, are brothers.
					SEC. 57. There is no evidence that the soul of man is an entity, any
						more than is gravitation, attraction, repulsion, electricity, magnetism, spirit,
						thought, mind, law, all of which are merely principles.
					SEC. 58. The Plastic Power--call it "Breath," "Spirit," "Soul,"
						Force, "God," or what you will--which makes of the elements a particular being--this a
						man, that a tree; this a bird, that a flower; and which shines in the light, sings in
						the breeze, weeps in the clouds, burns in the heat, freezes in the cold--can never be
						understood by man. Philosophy can not unfold it; Science can not explain it; Art can not
						accomplish it; Government can not restrain it; Morals can not change it; Religion can
						not solve it. It is the mystery of mysteries!
					SEC. 59. A being yet may be created with a capacity far greater than
						that of man; with faculties  which will enable him to reach
						much farther into Infinity, and with endowments by which lie will know, at once and
						intuitively, what now requires man a lifetime to acquire. There is much evidence showing
						that the limit of creation is not yet attained in man, and none tending to show why an
						infinite series of beings, superior to man, may not yet be created on earth, without any
						change of the present known laws.

				

				

				
					CHAPTER IV.
					
					
						PHILOSOPHY.
					

					SEC. 1. Philosophy is the study of the absolute through the
						relative, the unconditioned through the conditioned, the infinite through the finite,
						the eternal through time, God through the universe.
					SEC. 2. The foot-prints of the philosopher become the paths of
						truth, and the highways of science.
					SEC. 3. There is no philosophy but truth; there is no science but
						truth ; there is no morals but truth ; there is no religion but truth. Schools,
						theories, sectaries, creeds, which do not possess truth, are always useless, and
						sometimes mischievous incumbrances.
					SEC. 4. The history of philosophy shows that it has ever been
						vacillating between Idealism and Materialism--the one building beyond its basis and
						ending in mysticism; the other pushing its doctrines to pantheism; the former not
						comprehended by the understanding, the latter unsatisfactory to our consciousness. This
						instability arises from the great truth that philosophy is insufficient to account for
						the universe, to explain phenomena, or to fill the aspirations of the soul.
					SEC. 5. The whole mystery of philosophy consists in the problem,
						whether things really are what they seem to be--whether phenomena are real or ideal; in
						short, whether the objective and the subjective are the 
						same--a problem so far unsolved, and perhaps, to man, to remain unsolvable forever.

					SEC. 6. To allow the unknown to overthrow the known, is illogical.
						As truth is uniform, infinite, and eternal, the truth of the unknown can not change the
						truth of the known, but may go far beyond it. It is better to rest upon the known than
						to wander amidst the unknown.
					SEC. 7. Free-will and foreordination are irreconcilable, for if
						omnipotence foreordains a particular event to happen, it must happen as foreordained;
						but free-will and fixed law are not irreconcilable. A change of the will does not change
						the law, but changes the conditions upon which the law acts, as by changing its
						antecedents and consequents. Under the law of gravitation water will find its level, but
						obstruct it and it will rise or change its course. The law of gravitation remains the
						same, but the conditions of that upon which it acts being changed, the effect is changed
						also. So of the human will; it follows the irrevitable law of cause and effect, and will
						always act according to the antecedents and consequents. Its action may be deterred by
						pain, or invited by pleasure; not because the pain or pleasure changes the law of its
						action, but because they change the conditions upon which the law acts. Unless the will
						acts by inevitable law, a system of rewards and punishments would be impossible; for,
						without such a law, rewards would be useless, and punishments ineffectual; indeed, it
						would be mere cruelty.
					SEC. 8. While all mankind understand philosophy and science in some
						measure, and appreciate art in a certain degree, it is only the few who know them and
							 appreciate them in their highest and best sense. The
						multitude are strangers to the sweet brotherhood of the learned; but while only the few
						can be wise, all may be good.
					SEC. 9. Philosophy is continually searching that it may have wisdom.
						It brings its truths to light, subordinates them, and calls the result science; then
						mystery ceases. The more we know, the fewer the mysteries we find. To man much is
						mystery; to God nothing is mystery.
					SEC. 10. In philosophy we must explain facts when it can be done;
						but whether we can explain them or not, we must not deny them as they actually exist,
						merely because we can not explain them.
					SEC. 11. Philosophy sometimes appears like the chain made of a
						conjuror's rings; fact seems to be linked with fact, and all looks very well, but too
						often there is somewhere an unwelded link.
					SEC. 12. Neither philosophy nor science can reach the Deity, for
						neither deals with any thing but created things.
					SEC. 13. There is always beyond philosophy, beyond science, beyond
						art, beyond morals, beyond religion, beyond all human knowledge, an ultimate question
						which is unanswerable by man.
					SEC. 14. In philosophy one condition rests upon another condition
						throughout the whole chain of existences; but the conditional must ultimately rest on
						the absolute, which is the basis of all things.
					SEC. 15. Philosophers teach all mankind, and their knowledge is of
						things eternal; statesmen teach but a portion of mankind, and their knowledge is applied
						to temporary affairs. The former teach the laws of  nature,
						which are eternal and unchangable, the latter teach the laws of man, which are temporary
						and changable.

					SEC. 16. Some philosophers study only the body, as if it had no
						soul; other, contemplate the soul, as if it had no body, neither expressing the true
						philosophy of life; for, as we have both a body and a soul, we should study them both,
						and their mysterious union with one another.
					SEC. 17. There is nothing which might not be otherwise than it is
						except truth. Truth is one. True philosophy, true science, true morals, true religion,
						are one truth.
					SEC. 18. Truth is the basis of philosophy; goodness is the basis of
						morals; beauty is the basis of art; wisdom is the harmony of all.
					SEC. 19. Truth is one system rising from the material to the mental
						and spiritual. The law of mechanics may not contradict the law of gravitation; anatomy
						may not contradict mechanics; physiology may not contradict anatomy, and psychology may
						not contradict physiology.
					SEC. 20. Truth being consistent with itself, the unknown can not be
						inconsistent with the known. On this fact as a fulcrum, reason places its lever, and
						raises the understanding far above the senses, as the physical man with his fulcrum and
						lever may lift weights immensely heavier than he could by his natural strength.
					SEC. 21. Because we can not discover unknown truth, it is no reason
						that we should accept known error.
					SEC. 22. The senses can not be the first truth.  There must be something preceding the senses upon which they can act.
						Besides, it is impossible for the senses to take cognizance of the ideal world, or of
						the secret powers which govern the universe.
					SEC. 23. Truth may sometimes be disagreeable, but the perception of
						truth is always beautiful.
					SEC. 24. Man perceives limited and relative truth, and mistakes it
						for infinite and absolute truth; hence arise errors in philosophy, in science, in
						morals, in religion. God in science is infinite truth; God in philosophy is infinite
						wisdom. God in religion is infinite love. 
					SEC. 25. It is just as difficult to explain the first cause of the
						simplest thing in nature, as it is to explain the first cause of the universe.
					SEC. 26. The ultimate generalization of all phenomena must be into
						Matter and Force. Matter is of various kinds. Force is the Law, Will, Spirit, Soul, or
						God, which governs it.
					SEC. 27. The laws of gravitation operate alike upon all matter,
						whether organic or inorganic; chemical laws affect certain kinds of matter in certain
						relations, and therein control the laws of gravitation; the laws of vitality resist
						alike the laws of gravitation and the laws of chemistry; and the laws of mind rise above
						and are superior to all matter and all physical law whatever.
					SEC. 28. Gravitation deals with quantities of mat-
						ter without reference to qualities; chemistry deals with qualities of matter in certain proportions, without reference to general quantities; vitality deals only with organic matter; mind acts through
						organic matter, and deals with all things in the universe.


					

					SEC. 29. It is impossible to conceive the idea of matter without
						having at the same time the idea of space; it is impossible to conceive the idea of
						motion without having at the same moment the idea of time; and as our material existence
						must be in space, and as the act of thinking is a succession of thoughts, it becomes
						impossible for man to exist and think without having at the same instant the ideas of
						both space and time.
					SEC. 30. Inorganic matter is the food of organic matter; organic
						matter is the food of animal life, through which we see manifested sensation, mind,
						thought, soul. Matter lies in the lap of soul, and is nursed and molded into various
						forms of life. It is soul that gives matter organism, not the organism that gives matter
						soul.
					SEC. 31. A physical substance, to preserve its existence, must obey
						the laws of matter; so the mind can exist only in accordance with its own laws. A living
						body, to preserve its health, must follow the laws of life, and a soul that would be
						happy must obey the laws of nature.
					SEC. 32. There are no divisions in nature. The universe is one.
						Every thing touches something else, which touches something else; thus, throughout,
						there is an infinite continuity. As well say that the earth is in so many pieces,
						because we divide it into degrees of latitude and longitude, as to say that nature is
						divisible. Classification aids the mind, but it divides nothing.
					SEC. 33. Mechanical philosophy is sufficient to explain the
						machinery of the body, but it can not  account for the
						power which gives it life, motion, mind, thought, soul.
					SEC. 34. Nothing is annihilated; nothing dies. Death is simply
						changing matter from one use to another. Whatever is born of matter must die. That which
						had a beginning can not be eternal.
					SEC. 35. If the dust of the earth could feel, think, and reason, it
						is doubtful whether from choice it would receive life or remain as it is. Life imposes
						severe pains and penalties, and requires serious duties and responsibilities; it is,
						indeed, a great task to live even a happy life.
					SEC. 36. The womb and the tomb are the mysterious beginning and
						ending of man.
					SEC. 37. The human body is continually receiving and giving back
						what it receives. So with the soul; it is forever giving and receiving. Matter is
						eternal. Soul is immortal.
					SEC. 38. The organization of the body is easily destroyed by the
						ordinary accidents to which all matter is liable; but the soul, or spirit, or force, or
						that which rules the body, is above and beyond the reach of all earthly vicissitude.
					SEC. 39. As the human body has been produced over and over again
						through innumerable generations, so has the human mind been repeated again and again
						through the same period; and we may as well expect new organs to the body as new
						capacities to the mind. Doubtless every thought within the compass of the intellect has
						been originally re-thought many times, without the knowledge that it had been thought
						before; it is therefore not the thought that is original, it is the brain that is
						new.


					
					SEC. 40. The destruction of life is necessary to the construction of
						life. Death is simply the dismissal of the body by the soul, that it may enter into new
						combinations, and the soul take higher flights. Thus every thing must obey the
						conditions of its existence, or it can not exist.
					SEC. 41. Man is in the midst of creation. There are grades of being
						below him, and grades of being above him; he has the power to descend to the lower, or
						rise to the higher.
					SEC. 42. Man can not solve the problem of his being. The most
						profound learning, the highest knowledge, the exactest deduction, the broadest
						generalization, can only push the problem a little farther from him. Its solution
						remains impossible.
					SEC. 43. The physical man, the intellectual man, moral man, the
						spiritual man, are blended in the same being, to regulate, balance, and correct one
						another; all taken together constitute the unit man.
					SEC. 44. Individuals--even kings, princes, heroes, poets, sages,
						statesmen, are but the puppets of their times, while the human race is eternal.
					SEC. 45. The love of life gradually subsides as time subdues the
						body, until, when death naturally comes, it has quite disappeared, and we are ready, and
						often willing to die. Death is as natural as life.
					SEC. 46. We have no more cause to complain at the dissolution of the
						body by death for the purpose of reconstruction, than the clod has to complain of being
						crushed by the harrow for the purpose of fertilization. A man has no more right to live
						through all time than he has to occupy the whole of space.
					SEC. 47. Man does but little when he has no needs  to arouse him; when nature feeds him he will not work; when
						the climate warms him he will not clothe himself; when he is sheltered he builds no
						houses; when his body is at ease he acts not; while his mind remains at peace he thinks
						not; when his soul is happy he fears not.
					SEC. 48. A man can no more think contrary to the laws of mind, than
						matter can disobey the laws of nature.
					SEC. 49. Men affect circumstances, and circumstances affect men,
						neither entirely control. A man can no more be great without circumstances to act upon,
						than an artist can mold a piece of sculpture without material.
					SEC. 50. Nature has but little material out of which men of genius
						can be made.
					SEC. 51. All things seem to be passing from the simplest to the more
						complex, and from the good to the better. To say that all things are not as they should
						be, and not for the best, or that they will not forever be as they should be, and for
						the best, is to impeach the power, wisdom, and goodness of the Creator.
					SEC. 52. The forces of nature, the powers of mind, and the
						inspiration of the soul, come from the unseen world. Philosophy, science, art, morals,
						religion, are but efforts to understand and interpret the unseen and the unknown.
					SEC. 53. What is called instinct in the conduct of living matter--as
						in animals, beasts, birds, reptiles, insects--is no more curious, and not harder to
						explain, than what might be called instinct in the conduct of dead matter, as in
						gravitation, chemistry, magnetism, attraction, repulsion, adhesion, explosion; except
						that  the former are more hidden, erratic, excentric, less
						known, and harder to understand.

					SEC. 54. Man frequently supposes that his will arises spontaneously
						within, when it is impressed upon him from without.
					SEC. 55. As the spiritual world is kept in order by attraction and
						repulsion, so is the moral world kept in equilibrium by sympathies and antipathies.
					SEC. 56. The desire of immortality is not as strong within us as the
						love of life, and we can no more infer immortality from a desire for it, than we can
						continue life because we love it. That the elements of the body upon its dissolution by
						death return to the original sources, to be reconstructed into other bodies, is a
						proposition demonstrated; but whether the elements of the soul, upon its separation from
						the body, return to their original sources, to be portioned out again to reanimate other
						bodies, is a question not to be answered by man. It is very clear that the continuity of
						sensation in the body is destroyed by death; whether the continuity of consciousness in
						the soul remains after its separation from the body, is also an unanswerable question.
						But that matter is eternal, and spirit immortal, there is no reasonable doubt.
					SEC. 57. There is potential death in life, and potential life in
						death. Each results alternately from the other.
					SEC. 58. Man's relative knowledge can have no effect on absolute and
						unconditioned truth; but to a certain extent, and for a limited time, it may effect
						relative and conditioned truth. His voluntary actions within the limits of his power do
						not affect absolute  and unconditioned power. Man can not
						affect the light and heat of the sun, yet he may light a taper or seek the shade--the
						sun and its light and heat remain unchanged. He can not affect the course of the
						planets, yet may trace their orbits and prepare for the seasons--the planets and the
						solar system remain the same. Neither the will nor the conduct of man affect the Deity.
						Man can affect his own happiness or misery, his life or death, but the laws of happiness
						or misery, and of life and death, remain the same. Whatever changes take place in the
						universe, the universe remains the same. Whatever changes man may effect within his own
						sphere, God--His power and will--remain the same forever. Man has a local, temporary,
						voluntary power, by which he affects relative and conditioned truth--and herein lies the
						freedom of the human will--but all sinks back into the general order of infinite,
						eternal, absolute, unconditioned Truth. In its relation to time and space, the human
						will is conditionally and relatively free; in its relation to infinity and eternity it
						is controlled by the unconditioned and absolute.
					SEC. 59. We talk of inevitable death, but seldom speak of inevitable
						life; while life, under the same law, is as inevitable as death.
					SEC. 60. Nature leaves us blind when it is useless to see, and makes
						us see when it is necessary to know.
					SEC. 61. Our dust in the grave will belong to the great order of
						things, as much as our living bodies in the present.
					SEC. 62. The hope of immortality is founded in the selfishness of
						our nature. It is nothing more, indeed, than a desire to live forever for our own
						pleasure.  Shall the creature say to his Creator--give me
						eternal life for my own happiness? or would it more become him to say--I thank thee for
						the life thou hast given me!
					SEC. 63. The particular should always be in harmony with the
						general, the local with the universal, the finite with the infinite, the temporal with
						the eternal.
					SEC. 64. Time to us has no existence as time, it is simply the
						predicate of thought; space to us has no existence as space, it is simply the predicate
						of things. Thoughts and actions take place in time, things and relations exist in space.
						Without the thought or action there is to us no time; without the thing or relation
						there is to us no space. Time is the verb of creation, space is its noun.
					SEC. 65. There is no present in time, it is all past or future ; the
						present being no more than a mathematical line between them.
					SEC. 66. Time changes, eternity reposes; the eternal is, or time
						could not be; the finite is many, the infinite is one; the infinite is, or space could
						not be. Time's is the only wing that never rests. Space is the only thing that has no
						limit.
					SEC. 67. It is impossible to think of any thing where there was no
						time, and impossible to think of any thing where there was no space; it is, therefore,
						impossible to think of any thing without the predicates of time and space.
					SEC. 68. What, where, when; these are important words--for every
						thing is a what, must have a where, and must be when.
					SEC. 69. To say--"I think, therefore, I exist," is  no more than to say--I see, therefore, I exist. Neither of
						these propositions proves that I exist, unless it is first proved that I think, or see.
						The first thing I know is that I am conscious that I think, or I am conscious that I
						see. The proposition should, therefore, be--I am conscious of existence, therefore I
						exist; and this is the highest proof of my existence, that I can have.
					SEC. 70. The theory that true vision combines the sensation of sight
						with the deductions of experience, in the same act of seeing, is no less true of the
						other senses than it is of seeing. Every act of true hearing is made up of the sound as
						it comes to the ear, combined with the experience as to distance, direction, loudness,
						and relation to other sounds. We must learn to hear as well as to see. Every musician or
						painter experiences this fact, so of the grosser senses. It is experience that gives the
						wine taster the advantage over one simply with the natural sense. The experienced
						performer detects at once what the untutored sense would never discover. Also the true
						sense of touch is the combination of experience with the sensation of contact. The
						senses furnish only sensations, to be used by experience, and corrected by the
						understanding.
					SEC. 71. Mind is a pure eternal light forever shining. Its
						manifestations on earth are in accordance with the media through which it appears.
						Through some it shines brightly, through others it is but dimly seen; yet it is ever the
						same eternal principle, differing only in the degree of brightness, not in the kind of
						light.
					SEC. 72. The human mind at best is but a taper  shining in darkness. It throws a faint light on a few things, while all
						around it is dark indeed.
					SEC. 73. If we can perceive no more in the objects we view than we
						can see with our eyes, or hear no more in the music we listen to than the ear can
						recognize; or if there is not more in our thoughts than we can speak in words, or more
						in our feelings than we can express; then we have looked, listened, thought, and felt in
						vain.
					SEC. 74. There is nothing so great that we can not conceive it to be
						divided into innumerable finite parts, and nothing so small that we can not conceive it
						to become infinite by addition.
					SEC. 75. Thought!--neither walls nor mountains, seas nor continents,
						earth nor sky, time nor space, can cirrcumscribe it.
					SEC. 76. No great discovery can be attributed to any single mind,
						but rather to the action of many minds. He who first ascends to the peak, claims the
						mountain, though it may have been gradually upheaving for centuries.
					SEC. 77. Thoughts are things as real to the mind, as material
						substances are real to the senses.
					SEC. 78. The metaphysician tells us that mind depends upon the brain
						; the physiologist declares that the brain depends on the stomach; the physician assures
						that the stomach depends on food; and the agriculturist shows us that food depends on
						the soil; thus according to the understanding, we are plainly deduced from the dust of
						the earth, but the soul is unsatisfied with the conclusion. The body of man arises from
						the earth; his soul descends from Heaven.
					SEC. 79. Metaphysical controversy is the ever-recurring  dispute about matter and spirit, sense and thought;
						religious controversy is the ever-continuing contest between reason and faith. Men
						usually agree in matters of reason, but seldom in matters of faith.

					SEC. 80. The question between the materialist and spiritualist seems
						to be whether the soul comes up out of the earth like the body, and goes down into the
						earth with the body, or whether it comes down from Heaven into the body, and returns to
						Heaven when the body dies. If the soul comes down from Heaven it is not likely that it
						goes into the earth to remain; if it comes out of the earth it is not probable that it
						ever goes up to Heaven; but if it comes from Heaven it surely may return to heaven, and
						if it comes from earth it will no doubt return to earth. It is folly to say that God
						could not make either proposition true.
					SEC. 81. There must be an unseen world of force lying within the
						world of matter which acts upon it and through it, and thus produces the phenomena
						perceived by the human mind.
					SEC. 82. Reason must have something fixed to reason from,
						imagination changes what reason has fixed in fact, and reasons from the new
						premises.
					SEC. 83. The human mind is but a phenomenon conscious of itself and
						other phenomena. We are, indeed, at best, nothing but phenomena watching phenomena. 
					SEC. 84. Great original minds seldom derive much instruction from
						the works of men; they go at once to the great fountain of truth--the works of God.
					SEC. 85. All things come to us out of darkness, and go from us into
						darkness. What is below, above, around, beyond, it is impossible for man to know.  We come from the womb--the mysteries of which have never
						been penetrated, and go to the grave--the secrets of which have never been revealed.
					SEC. 86. There is ever a dark curtain around the finite mind through
						which no light can come, and beyond which no one can see. To some it seems farther away
						than it does to others, but none alive can pass the "cold obstruction;" and yet however
						the mind may fail to perceive, the soul persists in believing that there is eternal
						light beyond.
					SEC. 87. Ignorance to the mind is like darkness to the sight; every
						thing that is discovered through it is so dimly seen that the imagination makes it what
						it wishes it to be, or fears that it is. The ignorant mind will always have absurd and
						monstrous ideas about what it does not understand.
					SEC. 88. Ignorance and wisdom are alike quiet, and hence are
						sometimes mistaken for one another; but ignorance is quiet from stupidity, and wisdom
						from serenity.
					SEC. 89. The most learned are not always the wisest. It is better to
						be well learned than much learned.
					SEC. 90. Thoughts may be none the less original in us because others
						have thought the same before. Our passions and emotions are as completely our own as if
						no other human being had felt the same before.
					SEC. 91. Great thinkers step in advance of the age they live in, and
						draw savans, dogmatists, statesmen, and finally the multitude, after them.
					SEC. 92. Imagination transcends the understanding, and has its own
						laws, which the understanding can not explain. If nothing existed but what man's  understanding could comprehend, earth, the heavens, the
						universe, and God would be no mystery.
					SEC. 93. It requires ratiocination to prove that all the parts are
						equal to the whole, as well as it does to prove that the earth revolves on its axis once
						in twenty-four hours; the only difference being that in the former case the affirmative
						excludes the negative, while in the latter it does not; and therefore in logic as well
						as in fact, the latter proposition may be disptued. 
					SEC. 94. Nothing great can be rightly seen while we are near it.
						Faults are seen when near, beauties in the distance.
					SEC. 95. Many things which may be disagreeable to man are as useful
						in creation as though they were agreeable to him.
					SEC. 96. Reason is the lever of the mind; logic is the lever of
						reason.
					SEC. 97. Thought is the messenger of the mind that bears the soul
						away on its high purpose.
					SEC. 98. Propositions and syllogisms make a formidable quiver of
						arrows, but they need the bow of logic and the feather of eloquence to send them to the
						mark.
					SEC. 99. Ignorance is the mother of disputation; when all is known,
						none will dispute.
					SEC. 100. How much more difficult it is to come to a conclusion
						which is disagreeable to us than to one which accords with our wishes.
					SEC. 101. The greatest thinkers are never the greatest actors; the
						greatest actors are never the greatest thinkers.


					

					SEC. 102. The mind may waver from the force of ideas, as the body
						may falter under too great a load.
					SEC. 103. The power to reason is the highest faculty of mind. It uses
						knowledge. Faith requires no knowledge and no reasoning faculty.
					SEC. 104. Memory and hope are the wings of the mind; the one bears
						it back into the past, and the other onward to the future.
					SEC. 105. Study the past, that you may enjoy the present and know
						the future.
					SEC. 106. Great things in the distance often appear small, and small things
						near often appear great. A taper close to the eye casts a more dazzling light than a
						star in the heavens.
					SEC. 107. The more we drink from the well of truth, the sweeter the
						draught. The waters of truth are the drink of knowledge.
					SEC. 108. Some reasoners accept a part of the truth for the whole;
						others, unless they can perceive the whole, deny all. Both methods are alike erroneous. 
					SEC. 109. Ignorance is the friend of confidence and the parent of
						faith. Neither belief nor disbelief is an act of volition.
					SEC. 110. The greatest wisdom is that which contains the most truth
						with the least error; the best moral is that which secures the greatest good with the
						least evil; the highest art is the representation of the purest beauty with the least
						depravity ; and the truest happiness is the enjoyment of the greatest pleasure with the
						least pain.
					SEC. 111. The mind can see more than the eyes. All the senses are
						but purveyers to the mind that  bring in all they find,
						good or bad; it is for the mind to examine, arrange, and distinguish the true, good, and
						beautiful, from what is false, bad, and ugly.
					SEC. 112. The more difficult a question is to answer, the readier we
						are to dispute about it; and the more ignorant a man is the readier he is to shed his
						blood for his opinion.
					SEC. 113. All books are fractional and imperfect. The greatest and
						best show but a partial view of man. The most of them touch but small points in the
						great circle of Truth. Earth, sea, sky, nature, spirit, soul, can never be fully written
						in books. Nothing less than the universe can hold them.
					SEC. 114. We know but little until we discover the deep significance
						of common things.
					SEC. 115. Men of talent are not disposed to do any thing which has
						not been done before, while men of genius are continually attempting to do some thing
						which has never been done before. Men of talent, therefore, make fewer mistakes than men
						of genius, yet men of genius are the leaders of the world. The man of talent learns what
						he knows, and can teach it; the man of genius knows what he does not learn, and can not
						teach it.
					SEC. 116. We reason and are conscious of what reason proves; we
						exercise faith and are conscious of what faith proves. Faith may not contradict reason
						nor consciousness, but may go beyond both.
					SEC. 117. The very essence of faith is that it transcends reason.
						When knowledge comes then faith goes. Where knowledge is, there faith can not be.
					SEC. 118. Reason can never eradicate passion, emotion, sentiment,
						hope, fear, love, benevolence; nor can  these ever
						eradicate reason. Reason can never satisfy the soul, but may regulate its action; the
						soul can never silence reason, but may chasten its severity. Pure intellect which is the
						guide of reason, and pure spirit which is the fountain of the soul, are different and
						independent sources of power. Either modifies, but neither masters, the other; hence
						religion and reason should stand together and balance each other. When religion is
						developed in defiance of reason, we have superstition and fanaticism; when reason is
						followed in disregard of religion, we have fatalism and impiety. All the powers of the
						mind and soul should be harmonized by the understanding.
					SEC. 119. Nothing is supernatural with God. Every thing, or nothing,
						is supernatural with man. If whatever man can not account for is supernatural, then
						every thing with him is supernatural; if nothing is supernatural but what is exceptional
						to Law, then nothing is supernatural.
					SEC. 120. A miracle is not merely "an effect without a known cause;"
						it is an effect contrary to a known cause.
					SEC. 121. The mind can not take in great objects at one conception,
						such as great magnitudes, great distances, great numbers, great periods ; it embraces
						them only in parts, then by adding the parts attains some faint idea of their
						greatness.
					SEC. 122. The chambers of the mind are the receptacles of what the
						senses bring from the outer world.
					SEC. 123. The eternal to us is measured by time, the infinite by the
						circumscribed, and the absolute by the relative. It is impossible for the human mind to
							 grasp the eternal, the infinite, or the absolute at a
						single thought; we can only grope after them.
					SEC. 124. Whether the objective which the mind perceives is the same
						as the subjective which the mind believes, is the great problem of philosophy. Science
						is indifferent to the question, because our consciousness, which is all we can know, of
						the relation of the objective and the subjective is uniform. The laws of phenomena are
						the same whether phenomena are real existence or only phenomena.
					SEC. 125. In dreams and visions we simply confound the subjective
						with the objective.
					SEC. 126. Truth is that relation of the things and actions in the
						universe as they exist.
					Goodness is that relation of things and actions, according to their qualties, which is
						well for man.
					Beauty is that relation of things and actions, according to their qualities, which
						pleases man.
					SEC. 127. He who denies every thing which he does not comprehend, is
						as unwise as he who believes all that he does not understand.
					SEC. 128. Each sensation, emotion, sentiment, thought, volition,
						action, has its antecedent relations, which determine its course and make it
						inevitable.
					SEC. 129. To comprehend and believe in one infinite and eternal God,
						governing the universe by a system of unvarying and inevitable laws, requires a grade of
						intelligence hardly to be expected in each individual of the human race; nor even,
						indeed, in each individual of the most enlightened nations. Until such a degree of the
						understanding over the senses is attained, the world will always have various gods, and
						many intervening intercessors, as angels, seraphs, spirits,  saviors, priests, to satisfy the ignorance of the multitude. The many must have
						something which in some way affects the senses, the sentiments, or the emotions, or has
						some likeness to their own nature, or they will neither believe in it nor follow it,
						much less worship it; and thus, through their ignorance, and by the arts of those who
						practice upon their hopes and fears, the race has suffered more bitterly than from all
						other causes since the creation of man.
					SEC. 130. The true philosopher would willingly learn from the fool,
						in whatever the fool might know which the philosopher did not; for none are so wise that
						they may not learn something from the most ignorant. 
					SEC. 131. If a proposition which requires one hundred facts to prove
						its truth has ninety-nine of the facts proved, and the hundredth fact is not
						inconsistent with it, or is unknown, the proposition becomes in the highest degree
						probable; but if the hundredth fact is found to be inconsistent with its truth, the
						proposition remains unproved as much as if the ninety-nine facts were false.
					SEC. 132. Man has been singing on the musical scale, which has but
						seven original sounds, ever since the creation; the painter, with a few original colors,
						not more than seven, represents every material object in creation; nine numerals are
						capable of counting all the things on the earth and in the heavens; philosophy, science,
						history, literature, are expressed by twenty-four original characters; and yet music is
						as boundless as air, painting as exhaustless as light, numbers as endless as the
						universe, and letters as infinite as mind.


					

					SEC. 133. The ideal is far more permanent than the real; nothing can
						invade it, nothing can mar its beauty. While the real--the palpable, that of which our
						senses inform us--is continually changing, and passing away. The ideal temple endures
						long after its walls have crumbled, and may be built before the walls are laid.
					SEC. 134. Motion and rest, in reference to bodies, are relative
						terms. There is no one thing in the universe at rest in reference to all other things.
						Two bodies moving alike are at rest relatively to each other, and two bodies at rest
						relatively to each other may be moving relatively to other bodies.
					SEC. 135. The musical instrument is not the music; the body of man
						is not his soul. The instrument may be broken, destroyed, yet the music will exist
						potentially in the eternity of things; the body may decay and die, yet the soul exists
						potentially in the eternity of things. And although the instrument and body, as such,
						may disappear by destruction, yet the elements of which they are made are
						indestructible; thus the music may become silent, and the soul depart, yet be heard and
						known forever.
					SEC. 136. Sensation reaches from passion through emotion into
						thought; so thought goes back through emotion into sensation. Passion, emotion, thought,
						are bound together as a chain. Thought is but perception eliminated from passion and
						emotion. Passion subsides into emotion and refines into thought. SEC.
						137. There is something within us which attends us every moment of our lives, and gives
						continuous identity to our ever-perishing bodies; and this something we call the
						soul.


					

					SEC. 138. Language, color, form, sound, are but poor media for the
						soul's expression.
					SEC. 139. The great virtues are often found in a man when the small
						ones are absent. Such a man is more likely to be known to posterity than in his own
						time.
					SEC. 140. There is a passion of the blood, a passion of the heart, a
						passion of the mind, and a passion of the soul. The passion of the blood is lust; the
						passion of the heart is love; the passion of the mind is friendship; the passion of the
						soul is religion. All of these, in various proportions, enter into the character of
						humanity, and constitute the unit-man.
					SEC. 141. Sympathy and antipathy between souls is like attraction
						and repulsion in matter.
					SEC. 142. It is as impossible to change the laws of our sympathy or
						antipathy, as it is to change the laws of chemical affinity.
					SEC. 143. It is better to abandon error than to remain in it, even
						though we never discover the truth.
					SEC. 144. Though many generations of men have passed away, yet
						humanity is still in its infancy. In its most perfect condition there seems to be an
						incompleteness in the human condition--a want which makes us yearn for something better.
						The earthquake sleeps beneath us, ready to awake, and the storm hovers above us, ready
						to burst.
					SEC. 145. Life would not be preserved without the love of life.
					SEC. 146. In one man we see all men, in one woman we see all women;
						in man and woman we see humanity. Men and women are the cogs and mortices which move the
						wheels of life.


					

					SEC. 147. The true principles of nobility in woman are chastity and
						beauty, in man genius and courage. Birth is an accident, and wealth an incident.
					SEC. 148. We should be both stoic and epicurean, as we must, or may;
						for no man can be either without being partly the other, and fulfill all the duties of
						life. We can not always sit in "The Porch," nor walk in "The Academy," nor lounge in
						"The Garden."
					SEC. 149. Our best, highest, and purest thoughts come to us while we
						are under depression.
					SEC. 150. After all our friendships and enmities, loves and hatreds,
						have died out, and we are seen in the pure light of truth and justice, then, if we are
						remembered at all, will come the test of character.
					SEC. 151. What the heart has once felt, we remember; but what the
						mind has merely thought, is soon forgotten. 
					SEC. 152. Superior natures can never be generally recognized while
						living, until the generality are superior natures.
					SEC. 153. The whole philosophy of life is to eschew the evil and
						secure the good.
					SEC. 154. Spirit is the law which governs; matter is the substance
						which is governed.
					SEC. 155. Seeing ghosts is but mistaking the subjective for the
						objective.
					SEC. 156. It is better to have the good opinion of the wise few than
						the noisy approbation of the ignorant many.
					SEC. 157. Man has feet to walk upon the earth, and eyes that he may
						look to Heaven.
					SEC. 158. Many persons of substantial character are deficient in the
						higher qualities of human nature,  while many persons
						possess the highest qualities and are deficient in substantial character.
					SEC. 159. Many are forgotten in life who are remembered after they
						are dead.
					SEC. 160. God teaches us the lesson of infancy; our mother teaches
						us the lesson of childhood; we learn the lessons of manhood and old age ourselves.
					SEC. 161. None are so wise as to be always right; and none so
						foolish as to be always wrong.
					SEC. 162. History shows us what has been; science shows us what will
						be; philosophy shows us--nothing, but puts us on the road to find some things, and
						teaches us to love every thing.
					SEC. 163. If we wish to have a past, or a future, we must take care
						of the present.
					SEC. 164. Every man is his own best friend and his worst enemy.
					SEC. 165. Virtue is one, vice a thousand; truth is one, error
						millions; yet virtue conquers vice, and truth overcomes error.
					SEC. 166. Our hopes and wishes believe many things which our
						judgment and understanding disbelieve.
					SEC. 167. It is possible to recover every thing we lose except lost
						time.
					SEC. 168. The temple of fame is seldom entered by storm; it must be
						won by patient industry, and is often gained by some quiet path or neglected by-way.
					SEC. 169. Mankind is prone to overrate that which is afar, either in
						time or distance, and underrate that which is near and in the present.
					SEC. 170. It is easy for the great to sink down to  the mean, but very difficult for the mean to rise up to the
						great.
					SEC. 171. Many want what they do not obtain, and many obtain what
						they do not want.
					SEC. 172. There is no trouble so great that it does not afford some
						satisfaction, and no satisfaction so complete that it does not contain some trouble.
					SEC. 173. How humbly man confesses that he knows not, and can not
						know, what may happen to him while in life, from instant to instant; yet how arrogantly
						he asserts that he knows, and can know, what will happen to him after death, through all
						eternity. How honest, fair, and liberal he is in what he knows and what can be known;
						how dishonest, unfair, and illiberal he is in what he knows not and what can not be
						known. In his wisdom he is as harmless as a dove; in his ignorance as venomous as a
						serpent.
					SEC. 174. It is the sweetness of life which makes us bear the
						bitterness of pain.
					SEC. 175. A proud heart can not be taught servility. The tempered
						steel may break; it can not bend. 
					SEC. 176. The sweetest flower appeals in vain to the ass' hoof.
					SEC. 177. All deception, however innocent, weakens confidence.
					SEC. 178. The heart that tells its wrongs is but slightly
						injured.
					SEC. 179. Our first memories are the last that leave the heart.
					SEC. 180. We sometimes forgive those who have  wronged us, but those whom we have wronged--never. 
					SEC. 181. Man can not step beyond Humanity to see what is there; he
						must be content to remain in his own sphere.
					SEC. 182. When the moon shall cease to change, then shall men's
						fortunes be stable.
					SEC. 183. Men will lose their health to gain money, and give their
						money to gain health, then lose both.
					SEC. 184. Independence is an excellent thing, but it sometimes
						breeds monstrous children--as pride, selfishness, disdain, arrogance.
					SEC. 185. Those who complain of life should not repine at death, for
						if life be unhappy death would bring relief, and, therefore, should fill them with hope
						instead of dread.
					SEC. 186. It is difficult to be wise and innocent; and ignorant
						innocence is but a dove in the hawk's talons.
					SEC. 187. Six thousand years of the past does not enable humanity to
						know a single instant of the future. 
					SEC. 188. Time but increases our confidence in what is true, our
						respect for what is good and our love for what is beautiful.
					SEC. 189. In sleep we are as unconscious as in death. We sleep
						one-third of our life; one-third of life, therefore, is death.
					SEC. 190. We fear old age, yet hope to attain it. SEC. 191. Friendship seldom maintains the contest long against interest.
					SEC. 192. We love our friends, not so much for  what they are, as for what they think we are; and we choose our friends more
						from qualities in ourselves, than for qualities in them, and more from what they see in
						us than from what we really are.
					SEC. 193. We can follow no path through life in which we encounter
						all the evils of existence; nor can we follow a path by which we can secure all the
						good.
					SEC. 194. It is supposed that happiness dwells in Heaven, and misery
						in hell. This world, being suspended between the two, partakes of both.
					SEC. 195. The ancients ascribed the weakness of men to their gods;
						the moderns ascribe their strength to God.
					SEC. 196. Fame is a Sunday suit to put on occasionally; we wear the
						mantle of love every day.
					SEC. 197. Tears are sometimes necessary, that through them we may
						see the rain-bow of hope.
					SEC. 198. Nothing can be permanently beautiful which is not also
						good.
					SEC. 199. Our sweetest pleasures and our bitterest pains, for want
						of words, must forever remain in silence.
					SEC. 200. Mankind is prone to personify each principle or power in
						the universe. They make death a skeleton, the Devil a beast, and God a Father. Hence
						also come the images of barbarians, and the gods of the heathens.
					SEC. 201. We are obliged to picture death as living, that he may be
						able to execute his work.
					SEC. 202. The soul must have a healthful subjective life in order
						that it may have a healthful objective life.

					

					SEC. 203. The knowledge of the head often hurts the feelings of the
						heart.
					SEC. 204. Men are sometimes made wise by first being made
						foolish.
					SEC. 205. It is sometimes a great misfortune to be fortunate.
					SEC. 206. There can be but one best thing, and one worst thing, but
						there are millions which are good, true and beautiful.
					SEC. 207. The longest road through the mind by the process of
						reasoning, and the shortest road through the heart by the affections, if we do not miss
						our way, is the best.
					SEC. 208. The noblest victories sometimes arise from defeats.
					SEC. 209. In the material world it is impossible for man to perform
						great deeds unless there are great deeds to be performed--and such occasions occur but
						rarely--but in the mental world no such conditions are necessary to great thoughts. All
						minds may enter there unembarrassed by time, place or circumstance.
					SEC. 210. The judgment of the unlearned is much better than their
						reasoning or argument.
					SEC. 211. Gilded brass will often appear better than brazen gold,
						but rough gold is always better than polished brass.
					SEC. 212. Marble can not give immortality to a name, but a name may
						give immortality to marble.
					SEC. 213. The profoundest thought of the philosopher often remains a
						mere nestling till the orator. fledges its wings.
					SEC. 214. The faults of good men are like the irregular outgrowths
						of a tree--they do not affect the  root--and may be lopped
						off without injury to the trunk.
					SEC. 215. There are many who never do any thing great simply because
						they never had any thing great to do.
					SEC. 216. There is often real courage in apparent cowardice, and
						real cowardice in apparent courage.
					SEC. 217. Riches may fence out trouble, but never can fence
						happiness in.
					SEC. 218. All the happy moments of a life-time would scarcely make a
						single day.
					SEC. 219. We spend the first half of our lives in striving to gain
						something, and, if successful, we spend the other half in studying what to do with
						it.
					SEC. 220. In the march of time we all keep step.
					SEC. 221. The noblest minds and purest hearts soar far above
						ambition.
					SEC. 222. We can not lay up our happiness and draw upon the fund, as
						we may upon our money--it must be daily earned.
					SEC. 223. Man is the greatest fighting animal in the world--he
						fights for an idea; beasts fight for food.
					SEC. 224. Happy men are seldom great thinkers; great thinkers are
						seldom happy men.
					SEC. 225. He who has committed no error has done but little.
					SEC. 226. The speaker sends his thoughts to us in words, the painter
						in colors, and the musician in tones.
					SEC. 227. Nature is the great fountain of truth, but we are too
						often compelled to drink its water through artificial pipes.


					

					SEC. 228. Very few make new opinions; the many take the old ones
						ready made.
					SEC. 229. Hope breaks on youth like a bright morning; memory brings
						back the light like the rays of the setting sun.
					SEC. 230. Lies are invented--truth is discovered.
					SEC. 231. Virtue is the health of the soul, and beauty its joy.
					SEC. 232. Wisdom gives us a clear understanding, and virtue a calm
						conscience.
					SEC. 233. Books are the most noble, disinterested, and faithful
						companions; they have no ambition, are not rivals, and know no hate.
					SEC. 234. A bitter truth to a candid mind is more palatable than a
						sweet lie.
					SEC. 235. Some think without acting, some act without thinking; the
						wise both think and act. Thought without action is useless, action without thought is
						folly.
					SEC. 236. Whatever may be the inequalities of men through life, they
						begin and end the world the same way.
					SEC. 237. Imagination makes the future, and memory preserves the
						past.
					SEC. 238. Happy are they who live so poor that none will covet, so
						humble that none will envy, and so harmless that none will hate.
					SEC. 239. Friendship judges of men by their best acts, hatred by
						their worst; consequently neither judges correctly.
					SEC. 240. We should sow good seed in the spring time of life that we
						may enjoy its flowers in the summer,  and gather its fruits
						in the autumn, and thus be prepared for winter.
					SEC. 241. To hunt for pleasure in the rounds of fashion were as
						fruitless as to search for an echo.
					SEC. 242. The inexperienced confide, the experienced suspect, the
						ignorant believe, the wise examine, consider, and decide.
					SEC. 243. He who would convince others must himself believe.
					SEC. 244. It is with our happiness as with our health; to be secure,
						it must reside within us; and as our health is best when we are not thinking of health,
						so we are happiest when we are not thinking of happiness. 
					SEC. 245. Every is must become and remain a was.
					SEC. 246. There is hope for a spendthrift, because his habits tend
						to correct him; but none for a miser, because his habits tend to confirm him.
					SEC. 247. How dependent is man! A worm makes him his richest
						apparel, and the bee gives him his sweetest food.
					SEC. 248. It is often more difficult to support fortune than
						misfortune.
					SEC. 249. The imagination is the lens of the mind; it magnifies or
						diminishes all objects to which it is applied.
					SEC. 250. Human nature is so imprisoned in habit that it seldom
						shows its native simplicity.
					SEC. 251. Human reason belongs to man; instinct, which belongs to
						brutes, is the reason of God.
					SEC. 252. He who speaks meanly of mankind  speaks meanly of himself, and he who hates mankind hates his own flesh.
					SEC. 253. To those who look rightly on the works of God, there is
						something beautiful even in the face of death.
					SEC. 254. The stings of wrong sometimes reconcile us to death, and
						even make us love the grave. SEC. 255. It would be pleasant to live
						on, that we might know the great thoughts which will come after our time.
					SEC. 256. The turf lies no lighter on the great than on the
						lowly.
					SEC. 257. Marble and brass are not more fixed than the past; clouds
						and vapors are not more unstable than the future.
					SEC. 258. To live and to die is but to obey the high behests of the
						Creator.
					SEC. 259. If we can not know after death that our friends love us,
						it is a consolation now to know that then our enemies will not hate us.
					SEC. 260. Hope shows us bright prospects on the distant hills, but
						there may be a grave in the valley.
					SEC. 261. We can not see the soul when the body is present, any more
						than we can when it is absent; then may not the souls of the departed be with us
						continually.
					SEC. 262. Our last refuge is the grave, the only effectual shelter
						from wrong.
					SEC. 263. As life passes on, we take our hopes, one by one, from
						their budget, and put their remnants in the sack of our memories.
					SEC. 264. Our enemies often benefit us more than  our friends; and our misfortunes are often more advantageous
						to us than our fortunes.
					SEC. 265. We some times teach more than we know ourselves.
					SEC. 266. Nature prepares us for the coffin as kindly as a mother
						lays her babe in the cradle.
					SEC. 267. The sleep of a million years to the sleeper is no more
						than a moment when he awakes.
					SEC. 268. A man is prouder to be the descendant of a barbarian five
						hundred years ago, than to be the son of a prince made yesterday. The same weakness
						pervades nations. The East looks down upon Egypt, Egypt upon Greece, Greece upon Rome,
						Rome upon Europe, Europe upon America, all with a sort of complaisant contempt, while
						the Jews, dating their descent from Abraham, and claiming a universal nationality, with
						God as their immediate Governor, and regarding all the nations of the earth as only
						tarrying awhile. A nation may have an antiquity, but each individual must begin and end
						with himself. Why should a man be prouder of a long descent than he is of being a new
						creation of the Deity?
					SEC. 269. A man may be miserly with regard to other objects than
						money. In youth we are not naturally lovers of money, but as we grow older we find out
						its usefulness, and so learn to acquire it for that purpose. After awhile we become to
						love it without regard to any exterior purpose. The mind follows the same course with
						regard to knowledge. In youth we are seldom lovers of knowledge. Our first acquirements
						are generally forced upon us; then we find out the usefulness of knowledge, and seek it
						for that purpose; at length study becomes a pleasure, and we acquire  knowledge simply for the love of it, without the least
						regard to making it useful in life. So with our love even--we hide it, cover it over,
						treasure it up, caress it in secret, as the poor money-miser clings to his coin till
						death unloosens his grasp.
					SEC. 270. Man may boast of his intellect and his reason, of his
						philosophy, his science, his art; yet he would make a poor instructor to the beast in
						hunting or choosing its food, or the bird in building her nest, or the bee in founding
						its hive, or even of the poor spider in weaving her web. All of these creatures are
						wiser for themselves, than man is for himself.
					SEC. 271. The widest experience that an individual can possibly have
						is very narrow, when compared with time past, the great world, and the experience of
						humanity.
					SEC. 272. The human race is gradually approaching a harmonious
						opinion concerning that which may be known; concerning that which can not be known to
						man, beliefs must forever vary. We should have patience with the ignorance of that which
						may be known, and charity for our differences of belief as to that which can not be
						known.
					SEC. 273. God has placed our most exquisite and permanent happiness
						in the love of beautiful things, and though they pass away, yet the spirit of the
						beautiful is eternal. We may know that the flower will fade, yet we love it; the cloud
						is but a vapor, yet how beautiful. Science teaches us how the rainbow is made,
						nevertheless, it is God's sign in the heavens. Because the sky is an impenetrable depth,
						is its blue less beautiful? Because we can not reach the stars, are they any less bright
						to our longing eyes? We  never dream of touching the sun,
						yet his rays are no less genial to us, and necessary to our life. Let us be humble, love
						beautiful things, and be happy.
					SEC. 275. When we have to draw our happiness out of our own hearts,
						as the spider spins his web out of his own being, then we know what it costs us, and
						what it is worth; but when it comes from the out side, or is cast upon us, it is of
						little value, and never permanent.
					SEC. 274. The memory of the past and the hope of the future are
						always more pleasing than the reality of the present. Memory brings us a Paradise lost,
						hope shows us a Paradise to be regained. Through life we are constantly traveling in a
						vale. If we look backward the memory of the past rises like a beautiful acclivity which
						we have just descended, and if we look forward hope builds a bright eminence which we
						are constantly climbing, but which as constantly sinks away as we endeavor to ascend.
						And in wide fields of memory there are many narrow lanes, pleasant by-ways, and long dim
						vistas. How sweet to wander there and gather half-forgotton flowers that still are sweet
						though their bloom has faded. The great highways of life are rough, dusty, or miry. No
						flowers grow there.
					SEC. 276. It is idle to complain of the changableness of things. The
						world in its onward progress is ever changing for the better. Error changes into truth,
						ignorance becomes knowledge, folly becomes wisdom, and hatred turns into love. One
						beauty succeeds another continually; yet while changes are taking place in parts, the
						universe--the grand unity--remains the same.


					
					SEC. 277. A child plucks a flower to pull off its leaves and see how
						nicely they are fastened together, or catches a butterfly and picks it to pieces to see
						how its wings are put on; so man experiments upon what he knows nothing about.
					SEC. 278. There is some thing beautiful even in misfortune, as there
						are certain beauties which can be seen only in ruins. Indeed, to those who look rightly
						on the works of God, there is beauty in all things--even in the face of death.
					SEC. 279. Death is no more than lying down on our mother's bosom and
						going to rest.

				
				
				
					CHAPTER V.
					
					
						SCIENCE.
					

					SEC. 1. Science is what we know; and all that science can know is,
						1. Consciousness; 2. Phenomena; 3. Law.
					SEC. 2. There can be no science except it is founded on what we
						know, There can be no reasoning except from premises proved, admitted, or assumed. In
						established science the premises are proved, in theoretical science the premises are
						admitted, in false science the premises are assumed. There can be no science concerning
						that which is beyond the domain of human knowledge.
					SEC. 3. Proof without authority is better than authority without
						proof, and proof against authority is better still than authority against proof.
					SEC. 4. If phenomena were not governed by invariable laws the
						existence of science would be impossible; the existence of science, therefore, proves
						that the laws which govern phenomena are invariable.
					SEC. 5. What appears to us as objective, becomes within us
						subjective, and the consciousness of this appearance is the highest knowledge we can
						have of the objective.
					SEC. 6. Truth is the science of the universe; hence all science is
						truth. Truth, if but a part, when taken for the whole, is false.
					SEC. 7. Science discovers nothing, for it must be  discovered before it becomes science. Philosophy discovers,
						science secures.
					SEC. 8. There is a universe of force, and a universe of matter. The
						force is fixed and eternal, and forever the same; the matter on which it acts, is fixed
						and forever the same, but constantly changing its relations. From force and matter come
						all phenomena. 
					SEC. 9. Some sciences are founded on absolute truth, as numbers,
						quantities; some on relative truth, as astronomy, geology; some on probable truth, as
						medicine, law; and some on the mere semblance of truth, as phrenology, spiritualism. All
						sciences are more or less empirical except pure mathematics; even applied mathematics
						are only approximately correct.
					SEC. 10. Science explains the universe, but gives us no clue to its
						creation; philosophy searches for truth, but can not discover a First Cause; neither
						reaches God, nor accounts for faith, but simply pushes the mystery farther and farther
						from us.
					SEC. 11. Science accounts for nothing. We see its beginning, and
						know that there is something which precedes it; we see its ending, and know there is
						something beyond it. The same of philosophy; it proves nothing. We see its beginning and
						ending, but it shows us nothing of what precedes or follows it.
					SEC. 12. The accumulated facts of centuries, through a long series
						of observations, deductions, and demonstrations, sometimes result in proving but a
						single proposition and establishing but a single principle.
					SEC. 13. Science is based on the known, philosophy seeks for the
						unknown. As fast as what was the  unknown becomes the
						known, philosophy becomes science.
					SEC. 14. Science can neither create nor destroy.
					SEC. 15. Practical science must always fall below the exactions of
						its theory, as the abstract is always more perfect than the concrete.
					SEC. 16. Science may drive art from its present fields, but never
						can banish it from the soul of man. The field of art lies on higher mounts than that of
						science, and when science lifts art still higher than it is, there will be still higher
						fields found for art to enter. Science is the hand maid of art, for the more truth
						science establishes the more material it furnishes for art. Science and art are not
						antagonists; the one supplements the other.
					SEC. 17. Science has proved more wondrous things than the
						imagination has conceived.
					SEC. 18. Science may yet so far search the secrets of nature, and so
						master its powers, as to extract the flour of the cerials out of the earth without the
						process of vegetation, the wine from the grape without the trouble of the vintage, the
						milk from nature without the cow, and the beef from the grass upon which the bullock
						feeds.
					SEC. 19. The learned talk much of causes and effects; there is but
						one cause--God, and but one effect --the universe.
					SEC. 20. Every thing practical has its ideal. The simplest material
						thing which man forms or fashions, first exists in the ideal before it can be made
						practical. The greatest and most exact of sciences--mathematics --is purely ideal. There
						can be no concrete which has not its abstract.

					

					SEC. 21. The qualities of mind which in science are held to be of
						the highest order, in theology are regarded as dangerous, if not, indeed, impious.
						Because science can not account for the beginning and ending of things, we fly to faith
						which takes any view the imagination, hope, or fear, may happen to give it.
					SEC. 22. Philosophy is ore; science is coined knowledge. SEC. 23. There is nothing so great but that the mind can double it ;
						there is nothing so small but that the mind can divide it.
					SEC. 24. A man must know much before he is willing to admit that he
						knows but little.
					SEC. 25. If a work of science is true, no criticism can injure it;
						if not true then no apology can defend it.
					SEC. 26. May not the harmony of colors be owing to the ratios of the
						rays of light that enter into the colors which harmonize, the same as harmony in sound
						is produced by the ratios of the vibrations in the tones which enter into the
						concord?
					SEC. 27. Science claims to understand gravitation, chemical
						affinities, heat and motion, when in fact it knows no more of these than it does of the
						anatomy or physiology of the body, or of the mind and soul of man. The machinery--the
						brain, spinal column, ganglions, and nervous system generally--is as well known as that
						of the telegraph, a locomotive; a watch, or any other machinery, but this knowledge does
						not solve the problem of life, sensation, consciousness, mind, or soul. The ultimate
						mystery is simply pushed a little farther away.


					

					SEC; 28. In mechanics, if you wish to gain in time you must give
						power; if you wish to gain in power you must give time; and this is the principle,
						which, in machinery, governs what is arbitrarily called the Five Powers. 
					SEC. 29. With a common school education the student has all the
						levers, fulcrums, wheels, axles, bands, and pulleys of knowledge. If he uses these
						properly he may master all that can be known to the human mind.
					SEC. 30. Mankind are daily establishing a truer science, a higher
						philosophy, and a purer religion.
					SEC. 31. Science will never press the spiritual from the natural. It
						may push the problem of matter and spirit farther onward, but it will remain insoluble
						still. There is a limit to human knowledge--it may be farther or nearer--but beyond that
						limit it can never go. The known can never exhaust the unknown. 
					SEC. 32. Science and philosophy may carry our heads steadily, but
						they offer no repose for the heart or soul.
					SEC. 33. Dying is a part of the process of life. Without constant
						death, there could not be constant life. The continual assimilation of life depends upon
						the constant waste by death. Thus we constantly die that we may constantly live.
					SEC. 34. We wake at birth and go to sleep at, death; thus life and
						death are but waking up and going to sleep again.
					SEC. 35. Death is sublime and beautiful--sublime in its terror, and
						beautiful in its hope; yet in the eye  of science, death is
						nothing more than changing a few pounds of matter from one use to another.
					SEC. 36. When science presumes to reach God it stands rebuked.

				
				

				
					CHAPTER VI.
					
					
						ART.
					

					SEC. 1. Art is the adaptation of the things in nature by man to his
						use or pleasure.
					SEC. 2. A useful art is the adaptation of the things in nature by
						man to his use.
					SEC. 3. A fine art is the adaptation of the beautiful in nature by
						man to his pleasure.
					SEC. 4. Between the useful arts and fine arts there is a wide field
						occupied by ornamental art, which frequently seems to blend them both together.
					SEC. 5. Beauty is the object and end of a fine art, usefulness may
						be the incident; usefulness is the object and end of a useful art, yet beauty may
						sometime be its ornament.
					SEC. 6. Beauties can not last, Beauty is eternal; the objects of art
						change, but art is imperishable; Matter vanishes but Spirit is immortal; while Beauty
						exists the love of art will never die.
					SEC. 7. As truth is the science of the universe, so beauty is the
						art.
					SEC. 8. In art the Eternal Idea is expressed in the temporal form.
						We may descend from the ideal to the form which suggests it, or rise from the form to
						the ideal which it represents. Form is fact forever changing, the ideal is truth forever
						fixed.
					SEC. 9. The ideal of Beauty belongs to no particluar time, place,
						nature, or race. It was no more perfect  in Greece or Rome
						than it has been in France or England. It belongs to all times, places, nations, and
						races, in a more or less advanced stage of development. 
					SEC. 10. The instruments of the useful arts perish by use. The
						beauty which the fine arts embody is eternal. Millions of eyes may gaze on a painting or
						piece of statuary for centuries, and it will thereby be in no wise changed. Millions of
						eyes may read a poem, and millions of ears may hear it read for millions of years, if
						that were possible, yet it will not therefore perish, decay, diminish, or become changed
						in the least by time.
					SEC. 11. Architecture, sculpture, and painting are fixed arts; music
						and poetry are flowing. Architecture represents inanimate form, sculpture represents
						animate form, painting represents both, but only for a single instant of time. Music
						represents constant movement, and poetry represents all beautified things, either in
						movement or repose.
					SEC. 12. Architecture and sculpture represent the beautiful by means
						of substance; painting represents the beautiful by means of color, light, and shade;
						poetry represents the beautiful by means of language; music represents the beautiful by
						means of tone.
					SEC. 13. Poetry and music are exhibited in time, and exist in
						movement; painting, sculpture, and architecture are exhibited in space, and exist in
						repose.
					SEC. 14. Those who in poetry insist upon exactness of meaning in the
						words, and complete logical precision in the thought, are as much at fault as those  who are satisfied simply with the sound, rhythm, and rhyme.
						The object of poetry is not solely logic, nor entirely sound. Its main purpose is by the
						sweetness of its words and obviousness of the thought to present pictures to the mind
						which awaken pleasing emotions and arouse passion. When this is accomplished we need not
						scan the words too closely, nor endeavor to reduce the proposition to a syllogism. There
						is much in our nature that logic can not prove, nor sound awaken, which poetry
						completely satisfies.
					SEC. 15. Painting, sculpture, and architecture are objective; music
						and poetry are subjective.
					SEC. 16. Painting and sculpture are the easiest of the arts to
						enjoy. We have but to open our eyes and see. The painter and the sculptor may be in
						their graves, but their works are before us; we must go to see architecture, we can not
						bring it before us; we must read poetry which requires some effort, and music must be
						rendered by a living artist before it can be fully enjoyed.
					SEC. 17. There is a soul in art beyond the mere material through
						which it is expressed, as there is a soul in the body far superior to the matter through
						which it is compelled to act.
					SEC. 18. A work of art does not contain within itself the beauty
						which it represents; it is but the talisman to touch the soul of the beholder. The
						beauty, which is an eternal principle, shines through the work.
					SEC. 19. A rude work of art may awaken in a rude man the same
						pleasure that a refined work of art will awaken in a refined man. Indeed a rude man,  for want of culture, can not enjoy refined art, as a refined
						man, on account of his culture, can not enjoy rude art; still neither should be deprived
						of his pleasure. 
					SEC. 20. How little feeling, compared with what pervades the living
						heart, can be expressed and preserved in the arts--poetry, painting, sculpture, music.
						Tears will dry, hearts will grow cold, and memory will fade. The result of all our love
						at last is but to embrace the air.
					SEC. 21. Whoever has beautified common life, and made it engaging
						and honorable, by art, has served his country well.
					SEC. 22. Nature is the mother, Art is the daughter; and like many
						other mothers and daughters, the gaudy attire of the daughter often eclipses the placid
						beauty of the mother.
					SEC. 23. In the fine arts, the partition is often very thin between
						a fault and a beauty.
					SEC. 24. A work of art should have many beauties, of which make one
						beauty.
					SEC. 25. We can define nothing of art except its body; its spirit
						escapes the clothing of words.
					SEC. 26. A work of art is a constant and unwearying appeal to the
						beautiful.
					SEC. 27. The fine arts are the bright jewels in the crown of
						science.
					SEC. 28. We see the stars but can not reach them; so the mind sees
						the beautiful but can not grasp it.
					SEC. 29. The philosopher sees the real world as it has been created,
						the artist sees an ideal world as he would that it should be; and this ideal world is no
							 less real to the soul than the real world is to the
						sense.
					SEC. 30. It is the beautiful that we can not seize which makes our
						art, and the unknown that we can not fathom which makes our religion.
					SEC. 31. It is much easier to blemish gold than to burnish brass, or
						to disfigure beauty than to create its form.
					SEC. 32. Genius is the instinct of intellect. Its sources transcend
						its own knowledge. Intellect builds from the known, genius creates from the unknown.
						Intellect is sense and something more, genius is sense and intellect and something
						more.
					SEC. 33. The common mind sees only the material; the mind of genius
						sees the ideal, and finds that the material follows the type of the ideal, and that both
						are but one.
					SEC. 34. The light of genius pierces the darkness of the past, and
						the clouds of the future, and shows in the beautiful present.
					SEC. 35. It is easy to pick up a diamond when fortune has thrown it
						in our way, but to cut and set it requires skill and labor. So with the man to whom God
						has given genius; he has the jewel, but to make it beautiful he must cut it and set it
						worthily.
					SEC. 36. Study has done more for mankind than genius, but genius has
						done what study could never do. Genius and study combined accomplish all that man can
						ever do.
					SEC. 37. False and meretricious art often excites astonishment,
						which is a strong but fleeting impression; true and legitimate art inspires admiration,
						which is a calm and abiding joy.


					
					SEC. 38. The best part of art must be appreciated by the soul; it
						can never be defined by words.
					SEC. 39. All the fine arts are addressed either to the eye or the
						ear, and through one or the other of these to the soul. The senses of smell, taste, and
						touch can neither be addressed nor improved by the fine arts.
					SEC. 40. Rules of art may prevent faults, but can never create
						beauties.
					SEC. 41. The artificial may please the eye, the natural touches the
						heart.
					SEC. 42. A clown can break the image that took a Praxitales to
						make.
					SEC. 43. God forms in flesh what man can only make in marble.
					SEC. 44. In music mind speaks to mind, and soul touches soul without
						the cumbrous use of words.
					SEC. 45. The soul hears music which can never be played or sung, as
						the mind sees beauties never to be made visible to the eye.
					SEC. 46. All around us, hidden and silent, lies a world of colors,
						and a world of tones, ready to be invoked at the artist's or musician's will; and a
						world of ideas ready for the poet's brain.
					SEC. 47. The imagination can make a million statues in the quarry
						more beautiful than ever Phidias sculptured out.
					SEC. 48. Minerva, Psyche, Mars, Cupid, Venus, and Bacchus are the
						finest personifications in art. They represent mind, soul, valor, love, passion, and
						appetite; and in this order, inverted, they form the pyramid of human nature.


					

					SEC. 49. The artist's true time is never with the generation in
						which he lives. His contemporaries can not ultimately decide whether he is a true artist
						or not; nor does he know himself. Time alone can apply the test.
					SEC. 50. The poet must have sensibility to feel; he must have
						knowledge to furnish him with the materials of thought; he must have judgment and taste
						to select the good and the beautiful from the bad and the ugly; and, finally, he must
						have imagination and fancy to construct and finish his work.
					SEC. 51. It is the art of the poet to gather the beautiful from all
						things--from the earth, the sea, the sky, the storm, the calm, the tempest, the zephyr,
						the cataract, the lake, the rill; from the feeling and sentiments of man, the fancy,
						imagination, sublimity, humility, grandeur, terror, pity, love, joy, sadness, sorrow,
						virtue, truth, innocence,--and to blend them in an image to the mind, rounded and
						polished as the sculptor works the marble until it stands before him a living
						thought.
					SEC. 52. The poet and inventor are twin brothers. The latter enters
						into the domain of the physical world, seizes upon its material, studies the laws of
						nature, and turns them to the usefulness of man; the former goes into the world of
						ideas, selects what is beautiful and arranges them to the pleasure of the soul. The
						inventor must have the faculty of invention to select, the poet must have the faculty of
						imagination to beautify.
					SEC. 53. The poet lives in a world which the man of prose can not
						enter. He can not go up to the poet's  world, but the poet
						may come down to his world. The poet, therefore, lives in two worlds, and understands
						them both.
					SEC. 54. The poet who stops to think of spondees or dactyls while he
						is composing will never produce any poetry. His laboring soul must burst into song at
						once. True poetry is above form, and unknown to mere critics. If there be no poetry in
						the reader there will be none for him in what he reads.
					SEC. 55. Poets search for flowers, philosophers for fruits.
					SEC. 56. Poetry springs only from the natural soil, but, like a
						flower, to bloom sweetly it must be pruned by art.
					SEC. 57. That is the highest poetry wherein the picture portrayed,
						or the thoughts expressed, remains with the reader independent of the words by which it
						was conveyed to his mind.
					SEC. 58. The boldest, grandest, highest, flights of poetry must be
						unshackled by rhyme.
					SEC. 59. Poetry should be immediately understood by the heart
						without passing it through the alembic of the brain.
					SEC. 60. The best poetry is that which is written without study, and
						understood without effort.
					SEC. 61. There is much highly burnished poetry that is not of the
						genuine metal.
					SEC. 62. Poetry should never be written exclusively for the learned;
						it should be addressed to the great heart of humanity.
					SEC. 63. The best poetry is the best thoughts, of best minds, in
						their best moods, expressed in the best words.


					
					SEC. 61. It is a sweet recreation of the mind to step aside from the
						rugged paths of life and gather the flowers of poesy; for poesy is not only the most
						excellent of the arts, but it is also the highest expression of literature.

				


				

				
					CHAPTER VII.
					
					
						LITERATURE.
					

					SEC. 1. Nations have their geographical limits, and have heretofore
						seemed also limited in time. Oceans, mountains, lakes, rivers, and some times even
						imaginary lines, prescribe their boundaries; and it is still thought by many that they
						carry within the nature of their organizations the elements of their own dissolution.
						The rights and privileges of the members of nations are confined to the jurisdictions of
						their respective countries; and although by the comity of government's protection is
						granted by each nation to the members of other nations, yet the privileges of
						citizenship can not be claimed as a right.
					The Republic of Letters has no geographical boundary except the globe, and has no limit
						in time, except the extinction of humanity. Its members come from all nations--from
						China, Persia, India, Egypt, Greece, Rome, Germany, France, Spain, England, Scotland,
						Ireland, Russia, America, and from all parts of the earth--even Africa is not
						unrepresented; and they come from all periods of time, claiming equal rights and
						privileges in this Republic. They derive their citizenship not by any legal status
						conferred by kings, or governments, but by the stamp of genius impressed by the Deity.
						Their letters-patent do not fade nor wear out by time--fire can not consume them nor can
						death destroy them. Homer, Shakespeare,  Goethe, still live
						unharmed by time, and triumphant over death.
					But while it is true that the Republic of Letters has no limit, either in place or
						time--for while the world lasts it will have a place, and until mind dies it can not
						perish--yet each nation, like each individual member, has its place and period, and its
						literary characteristics. As America is the youngest among the nations, so are her
						citizens the youngest members of the Republic of Letters, and relatively to herself, the
						valley of the Mississippi and the Pacific shores, are the youngest portions of America.
						As the sun rises in the East and bears his light to the West, and as intellectual light
						first broke in the East, and has steadily extended its rays towards the West, we may
						expect America to be the last nation to show the full refulgence of Letters. There is no
						royal road to learning, but the road of learning leads to a royal palace, and a royal
						crown, and he who gains this crown is truly a, king. No one is born to this crown, nor
						is it ever won by accident; it is not the creation of war and revolution, nor can it be
						conferred by power--it must be earned, and when once worthily worn it can never be taken
						away. It remains even though the head that wore it has returned to dust--for it is made
						of mind which never perishes.
					The last best gift of a nation to the world is its literature; and as America is the
						last nation of the earth in time, it is rightly expected of her, with all the older
						nations of the earth before her, that her last gift will be the best that the world has
						ever yet received. And as a literature should represent the characteristics, and embody
						the thoughts and sentiments  of the entire nation, her gift
						will doubtless come from some central point on the continent. While the shores of the
						great oceans, and the rich valleys between them will be occupied with the commerce,
						manufactures, and agriculture of the world, the Muses will retire and find repose
						somewhere in the great valley of the Father of Waters, and quietly teach the world from
						their peaceful abode.
					SEC. 2. Literature is fixed thought; and should be the best
						thoughts, of the best minds, on the best subjects, expressed in the best words. A
						national literature is a nation's best thoughts, on its best subjects, expressed in the
						best words of its own language.
					SEC. 3. Classical literature, with all its claims to excellence, is
						defective in not giving woman her true position. During the period of Greece and Rome,
						women were either Aspasias, Xantippes, Slaves, or nothing. Literature can never be
						perfect until woman finds her true place by the side of man.
					SEC. 4. It is not enough in a literary production that the subject
						be noble, the thoughts beautiful, and the style correct; they must also be adapted to
						each other and in keeping throughout. The noblest subject may be degraded by bathos,
						bombast may be made of beautiful thoughts, and improper or ill-chosen words will greatly
						mar the finest conception.
					SEC. 5. A national literature should not be exclusively national.
						Whatever rises into the highest literature is as universal as man. There may be national
						histories, national stories, national songs, national poems, but if there be nothing in
						them which belongs to other nations also--in short, to Man--they do not belong to the
						highest literature.


					

					SEC. 6. First in order of history comes the hero, then the poet,
						soon the philosopher, next the scientist, then follows general literature, and finally
						comes the critic; and when critics rule culture will recede--for critics are generally
						writers who can neither discover nor create.
					SEC. 7. The best capacity of the critic often rises no higher than
						the worst defects of the author, thus leaving his merits unnoticed.
					SEC. 8. Criticism generally is the expression of the critic's taste,
						without any fixed rules applicable to what he criticises, as belonging to a class. Such
						criticism is merely a dispute about taste, and destroys criticism as an art governed by
						rules.
					SEC. 9. The drama represents life. A comedy passes through trouble
						into happiness; a tragedy passes through happiness into trouble. They teach what course
						of life we should follow, and what avoid; what we should do, and what not do.
					SEC. 10. As modern literature advances in worth, ancient literature
						recedes in importance. Indeed, the classical leads have already been so thoroughly
						worked that the quarry has become quite exhausted.
					SEC. 11. The learning which the church preserved from the second to
						the fifteenth century was the learning of the church; it was not philosophy, science, or
						literature. During this period, secular learning was saved by the Jews.
					SEC. 12. Language is the case in which thought is preserved, and is
						as much inferior to what it contains as the casket to the jewel it holds.
					SEC. 13. All language is the expression of thought. When there is no
						language no thought can be expressed.  Languages differ
						only in sound or sight, not in thought.
					SEC. 14. A very few written or spoken letters serve to express all
						the thoughts of the human brain. The vowel sounds are those uttered by the organs of
						speech in their natural position. Each letter of all the languages on earth contains a
						vowel sound. The consonants are nothing more than vowels with a peculiar beginning or
						ending. Indeed it is impossible for man to utter a sound by his voice that does not
						include a vowel within it. Spoken letters are simply sounds; written letters are the
						signs of sounds. Of these all languages are formed.
					SEC. 15. All languages consist in the names of things, and the names
						of actions, with words to express their qualities and relations. All knowledge consists
						in knowing things and actions, and their qualities and relations. And all wisdom
						consists in keeping things and doing actions in their proper places, according to their
						qualities and relations.
					SEC. 16. Language springs from the people and goes up to the
						learned. It is older than grammar, and always obeys the laws of thought, things, and
						actions. A new thought, thing, or action will find a new word which settles its own
						sound and meaning in spite of the learned.
					SEC. 17. It is impossible to construct language without grammar, for
						grammar is the relation of thoughts, things, and actions; and when applied to language,
						it is the law of the relation of words which represent thoughts, things, and actions,
						and their relations.
					SEC 18. Grammar is a law of mind, not of language.  The utterances of mind must follow the laws of mind. Logic
						is the law of mind, as truth is the law of relation. The form of the proposition is not
						material. The syllogism is a mere form; it proves nothing, disproves nothing. Any mode
						which expresses the law of mind, and the relation of thoughts, things, and actions, is
						logic.
					SEC. 19. All persons think grammatically, for, grammar being a law
						of mind, they can not think otherwise. Of course the rules of language should conform to
						the laws of mind.
					SEC. 20. Letters represent the most enduring powers of man. Heroes,
						warriors, statesmen, jurists, pass away with their periods. The man of letters
						represents pure thought, which remains like the fixed stars. And men are often
						remembered for a sentence, verse, maxim, thought or sentiment, expressed by them, long
						after their deeds are forgotten.
					SEC. 21. How poor is language compared with the richness of the
						mind; how empty is expressed sentiment measured by the fullness of the soul.
					SEC. 22. Thoughts are sometimes so thickly clad in words that it
						becomes difficult to find them. To put too many words around a thought is to put the
						sword in a scabbard.
					SEC. 23. How many fine thoughts from common heads are lost, and how
						many common thoughts from fine heads are preserved. The best thoughts of common minds
						are better than the common thoughts of the best minds.
					SEC. 24. It is nobler to discover a new thought than to conquer a
						nation.


					

					SEC. 25. Thought is permanent and eternal; language is as variable
						as the fashions.
					SEC. 26. All the armies in the world, all the powers of the earth,
						can not destroy a thought; and when a true, good, or beautiful thought once enters the
						human mind, nothing in time nor eternity can eradicate its impression.
					SEC. 27. Sentiments are the nebula of thoughts. Art expresses
						inarticulated sentiment; language expresses articulated thought.
					SEC. 28. The best style is that which expresses the most thought in
						the clearest manner, and in the fewest words. In a perfect style, the sentence can not
						be expressed in other words of the same language without injury to the thought.
					SEC. 29. The style of some writers places the words so uneasy in the
						sentence that they look as if they were struggling to get loose from their
						positions.
					SEC. 30. Is there a standard of taste in belleslettres to which all mankind can appeal? Or is it continually varied by
						race, nation, time, place, or culture? Or was the settlement of the question finally
						abandoned when the maxim--de gustibus non est disputandem was
						announced? That there is a standard somewhere in the nature of things must be true--for
						truth exists somewhere in all things, but can mankind attain it, or approximate it so
						closely as to make it authoritative? Certainly the question has never been settled yet,
						even by one race or nation for itself, much less for all mankind; and it is certain that
						criticism, as it has been and is now conducted, can never settle it, for critics differ
						amongst themselves as widely as authors or readers. Indeed to adapt a universal  standard of taste would seem something like denying milk to
						babes, and meat to men, and adopting something between the two for both.
					SEC. 31. A page of printing has no physiognomy --no eye to flash, no
						lip to quiver--no kindling, beaming face to please. Letters, commas, capitals, italics,
						exclamations, and all the arts of type, do not convey fervor, spirit, pathos; nor give
						out those pleasing and winning tones which rouse or captivate the hearer. Written
						oratory is as different from the living speaker as a drawing of mere lines is from the
						finished picture, or as the picture is from the living person. Yet oratory is but to
						persuade. For all that is to instruct or convince, the written page is equal to the
						voice of the orator. But eloquence gives wings to truth.
					SEC. 32. Every book, whether of science, philosophy or belleslettres, should contain one main proposition, to which all its minor
						propositions belong. The same should be the case with every essay, argument, or poem.
						Indeed every literary production should be capable of being reduced to a single
						proposition.
					SEC. 33. The greatest works in literature are for but few minds. The
						peak of Parnassus is out of sight to common eyes.
					SEC. 34. Newspapers are for a day, periodicals for a week, novels
						for a month; current histories for a year; true books for all time.
					SEC. 35. A popular book is like a new kind of drink, every one wants
						a sip of it, but few seldom wish to taste it again; while a true book is bread and wine
						forever.
					SEC. 36. In this progressive age but few read elaborate books;
						therefore short suggestive thoughts are  often more useful
						than long elaborate works. It is better to supply the seeds of knowledge for the mental
						field than the thoughts already matured; for give a thinker a new thought and the soil
						of his brain will soon produce its natural flower and fruit.
					SEC. 37. Whoever writes upon things of the present --his work will
						die with the things of the present.
					SEC. 38. If an author steals from the ancients he is called learned;
						if he appropriates from a modern he is branded as a plagiarist.
					SEC. 39. Satire in literature is a cat-o'-nine-tails. An epigram is
						a literary dirk. A sonnet is a cup for an idea, but is generally found empty. An epic is
						an ark carrying many lives--and is generally stranded from being overladen.
					SEC. 40. Writing sonnets is to the mind what walking in iron boots
						would be to the feet.
					SEC. 41. A blockhead should beware of using a pen, lest he write
						himself down an ass.
					SEC. 42. The mind that does much in quantity will be very apt to
						deteriorate in quality.
					SEC. 43. It is better to study a few books than to read many; and
						better to know well than to know much, but still better to know much and know well. A
						few books will hold all that man can know.
					SEC. 44. The mind wearies itself in search of the beautiful, and
						falls to earth at last, as the eagle struggles in vain to scale the walls of heaven,
						then stoops to rest upon the cliff.
					SEC. 45. The greatest attainment in literature is to make the
						subjective appear the objective.
					SEC. 46. The hand that traces words must soon decay, the brain that
						conceives the thoughts must  soon molder, but the truth and
						beauty of the thoughts which the words express will never perish.
					SEC. 47. What masses of learning, and volumes of scholarship have
						gone to the tomb of oblivion, while some simple line, sweet thought, or tender verse,
						because it is a thing of beauty, becomes "a joy forever."
					SEC. 48. Very few authors have more than a class of readers, and the
						higher they ascend in truth, knowledge, and excellence, the smaller their class will
						be.
					SEC. 49. The best thinkers of a period are seldom fully known to
						their contemporaries.
					SEC. 50. A thinker need not be an actor, but every actor should be a
						thinker.
					SEC. 51. The dramatic power and the poetic faculty are quite
						different things. The one shows us actual life, the other ideal beauty. The best written
						plays can not be acted on the stage, any more than the purely ideal can be made
						practical. The one is the contemplation of the soul, the other the representation of
						action--the one expresses the ideal, the other shows us the actual. Those plays which
						afford us the most pleasure in reading are often least adapted to action on the stage;
						and many plays which appear so engaging when acted, do not satisfy us at all when read
						without the action.
					SEC. 52. The drama when it represents the great deeds and noble
						characters of time, is a high and legitimate art. It combines, indeed, all other arts.
						History gives us a detail of facts; poetry makes us feel just and noble sentiments, but
						it shows us nothing; sculpture merely presents us colorless and motionless form;
						painting can seize on and fix but a single instant of time; music, though capable of
						awakening  the purest and sweetest sentiments, can not
						articulate thoughts, nor express facts. The drama has all the advantages of history,
						poetry, sculpture, painting, and music. Before it, at the same time, we may see, hear,
						and feel all that is just, grand, noble, heroic, virtuous, excellent, or beautiful in
						human nature.
					SEC. 53. Plays should be written as the real actors in the scenes
						would speak at the time the deeds were done--not as a spectator would describe them.
						This is the distinction between history and the drama.
					SEC. 54. He who reasons with his tastes, and tastes with his reason,
						may as well put his brains in his breast, and lash his heart to his forehead; or walk on
						his head and talk with his toes.
					SEC. 55. Education is not what is put into a man --it is what he is
						made capable of putting out. To gather the knowledge of others and place in our memory,
						no more makes it ours than putting stones in the stomach makes them a part of our food.
						Like our food, knowledge must be made over, digested, and assimilated, before it becomes
						our own.
					SEC. 56. Sectarian education is imperfect. It abridges philosophy,
						embarrasses science, perverts art, restricts literature, and narrows the boundaries of
						thought; at best it teaches but partial truth.
					SEC. 57. Schools, colleges, and universities are the repositories of
						learning, and ought to be supported, respected, and honored; but nothing new or original
						ever comes out of them. Indeed--as well as much truth--vast quantities of hoary error
						are most tenaciously preserved by them. All improvements within them are forced upon
						them from without, and generally after years of pressure. The English universities  are a century behind England, the German universities a
						century behind German thought. The French academy led the French universities at least a
						half a century. Universities are repositories and distributors of learning, but not
						originators or discoverers.
					SEC. 58. Our pains, mistakes, and misfortunes are our greatest
						educators.
					SEC. 59. The great means of improving and enlarging the mind is to
						think, think, think; as the great means of increasing our bodily powers is to act, act,
						act. The understanding should correctly use the materials which the sensations and
						preceptions gather along the road of life, whether from books, experience, or
						observation.
					SEC. 60. We can improve upon the arrangements of nature by the
						imagination, but we should never forget that we can also spoil her by the same means.
						Imagination is the mother of beautiful thoughts, begotten in health by truth, beauty,
						goodness, and love; but, alas; she is also the prolific dam of monstrous conceptions,
						and all the brood of chimera, begotten in a morbid condition by fear, hatred, deformity,
						and superstition.
					SEC. 61. Wit is the sudden and unexpected preception of some new,
						happy, or ludicrous relation in ideas.
					SEC. 62. Wit is to conversation what spice is to food--very good to
						season it; but of itself would make a poor meal.
					SEC. 63. Wit springs from the head, humor front the heart. A cynic
						may be a wit, but never a humorist. 



					
					SEC. 64. Wit and sarcasm are often combined, wit and humor
						sometimes, humor and pathos always.
					SEC. 65. True wit has no period of gestation; it must be conceived
						and born at the same instant.
					SEC. 66. The diamond of wit should be set in the gold of
						judgment.
					SEC. 67. Wit sometimes consists in the absence of wit.
					SEC. 68. Men of genius are seldom scholars, and scholars seldom men
						of genius. It is only when they are both united in the same person that we may expect
						the greatest literary effort.
					SEC. 69. Genius consists rather in the intenseness of the mental
						faculties than in their greatness. Many men have greatness without genius, while some
						have genius without greatness.
					SEC. 70. On the world's exchange genius is too fine a jewel to be
						valued at its worth.
					SEC. 71. A literary work very imperfect in form and finish may show
						great genius, and therefore be pleasing; a very perfect and complete literary work in
						form and finish, may show an entire want of genius, and therefore please not at all.
						When genius deigns to form, finish, and complete its work, then we have the highest type
						of literary production. This is the reason why the productions of culture, without
						genius, may be respectable but seldom please, while the productions of genius without
						culture will always please though they are seldom perfect. The productions of genius
						with culture are those which the world "will not willingly let die." Much genius and
						little learning is far better for the poet than much learning and little genius.



					

					SEC. 72. How many pass as geniuses for a time who do nothing more
						than brush the dust from a few old ideas and pass them off as new.
					SEC. 73. A book written by a genius is a light left upon a dark
						world. It is the mind's life--the soul's flash upon earth.
					SEC. 74. Untutored genius is like the unworked mine--full of rich
						ore but needing polish.
					SEC. 75. How many flowers of genius fall before they bear their
						fruit.
					SEC. 76. God gives equal rights to all men, but not equal powers--He
						gives genius only to the few.
					SEC. 77. Genius often soars so high that it is out of sight to the
						multitude--so high that it requires a long period of time to bring the world up to its
						view. A true genius always stands upon the apex of the times.
					SEC. 78. While there are but few men of the highest genius, there
						are many above "the mob of gentlemen who write with ease," whose claims should not be
						overlooked.
					SEC. 79. As to the injury to genius by penury--wealth smothers as
						much of it as poverty starves. Geniuses often enrich their country and grow poor
						themselves.
					SEC. 80. It is an undeniable fact that nearly all of our poetical
						gems are written either by unknown or unprofessional authors. The greater part of ballad
						literature of every nation is without known authorship, and many of our best songs are
						written by amature poets. They seem to spring from happy moods of inspiration, attended
						with lucky circumstances which an author may meet with but once in his life,  and then only for a few moments; and which he may never
						meet all. Great poets too often write nothing but epics, dramas, didactic, or religious
						poems, for critics to quarrel over and the world to forget.
					SEC. 81. Why is it that in poetry an object may be elevated by
						comparing it with something below it? Man is nobler and has a truer courage than any
						beast, yet we say of a hero that he is "as bold as a lion." No flower on earth is as
						beautiful as the blushing cheek of a maiden, yet we say it is "like the rose," and
						thereby suppose we compliment its beauty.
					SEC. 82. The bird singing in his solitude is not solicitous who
						hears his song; he sings out of the fullness of his nature, and because God made him to
						sing. So with the true poet. He writes his song to relieve his mind, to soothe his
						heart, and satisfy his soul; and sings all regardless of profit, praise, or fame.
					SEC. 83. The poet discovers his poem in the nature of things, as the
						sculptor rescues the statue from the quarry; neither create--they simply form their
						material into shape.
					SEC. 84. Poetry should go through the heart to the understanding,
						not through the understanding to the heart. Whatever reaches the heart through the
						understanding grows cold in the process. There are but few subjects fit for poetry or
						poetic allusion, if they require reflection or explanation to show their meaning.
					SEC. 85. An epic is but a narrative drama, and a drama is but a
						dramatic epic; the lyric is the concentration of them both.
					SEC. 86. In epic poems we find a vast deal of trite truth announced
						in stately language, which may be  very good philosophy,
						but which is very poor poetry. It is impossible to make all parts of an epic poem good
						poetry; it embraces too much that is common. There is not an epic extant that can be
						read without labor. Epic poems are read by critics, students, and scholars, but very
						seldom by the mere lovers of poetry. They are too long to please. No poem ought to be so
						long but that it might be read at one sitting, so as to present the full thought or
						image it contains at one view. What would we think of a picture or a statue, a part of
						which we see at one time, and some other part at another time? And a poem can no more be
						presented in pieces with propriety than can a picture or a statue.
					SEC. 87. Greece had but one Homer, Rome but one Virgil, Germany but
						one Goethe--the world has had but one Shakespeare.
					SEC. 88. How many can write empty bombast, string together
						glittering metaphors, swell their lines with pompous epithets, and drag them along with
						lengthened expletives, trim them all with rhyme, and make their whole production
						sufficiently unprosy; yet how few can write true, pure, plain, simple poetry.
					SEC. 89. Pure poetry, like pure mathematics, must be abstract or
						subjective. When applied to objects it becomes less perfect, as applied mathematics
						never fulfills the exactions of the abstract science.
					SEC. 90. There is nothing in philosophy or science which may not be
						learned and taught, but there is that in poetry which can be neither learned nor
						taught.
					SEC. 91. In poetry the thought must be apparent, and the words
						easily uttered. If it requires reflection  to perceive the
						thought, or effort to express the words, however beautiful the production may be, it
						will fail as poetry. The soul creates the poetry, the mind must fashion the dress.

					SEC. 92. Poetry is the harmony of human nature expressed in
						articulate words, as music is the harmony of human nature expressed in inarticulate
						sounds. Each lifts the heart aloft and fills the soul with a sweet fervor.
					SEC. 93. True poetry at once paints a picture, records a truth and
						chants sweet music.
					SEC. 94. Poetry is the logic of the heart and philosophy of the
						soul.
					SEC. 95. Poets make the rules of poetry; the rules do not make
						poets.
					SEC. 26. The thoughts which mankind hold in solution, the poet
						crystallizes into poems.
					SEC. 97. In blank verse the lines end as friends but part with
						averted faces; in rhyme they meet as lovers and part with a gentle kiss.
					SEC. 98. Mankind is too busy and too noisy to listen to the poet
						while he sings, but, as the bustle and roar subside, his song steals softly on the ear,
						and long after the multitude has passed away, fills the world with harmony. In the
						toiling marts of men and the grinding surge of commerce, poesy can not be heard; but
						around the quiet hearths of the loving, and in silent chambers of the student she sings
						her sweetest song; as while the tempest rages or where the river rushes nature's
						sweetest melodies are hushed, yet after the tempest has spent its fury, and where the
						river meets the ocean, the quiet  zephyr and the distant
						murmur resume their pleasing sway.
					SEC. 99. Shakespeare and Goethe have been compared to one another
						and called the myriad-minded, many-sided universals; but there is this difference
						between them: In Shakespeare the man absorbed the artist; in Goethe the artist absorbed
						the man. Goethe turned humanity into art, Shakespeare gave art to humanity.
					SEC. 100. Goethe was a great plagiarist--he stole women's hearts,
						chopped them up and made them into books and poems.
					SEC. 101. Wordworth's poetry is like his own lake Winandamere, calm,
						clear and deep, and reflects Heaven; but it lacks the lightning and the clouds.
					SEC. 102. The poet should have sufficient judgment to sustain his
						imagination in its highest flights, and taste enough to direct its course. Taste to the
						fine arts is what the judgment is to the practical--indeed, taste is but a finer
						judgment. The judgment should lay the foundation, the imagination build the structure
						and the taste beautify it.
					SEC. 103. There is not a genuine love-song in the whole compass of
						the world's literature written before the fifteenth century. Notwithstanding the
						gorgeous love-literature of the East, the grand old songs of the Hebrews, the sturdy
						passions of the Egyptians, the high culture and refinement of the Greeks, the soldierly
						honor and manliness of the Romans, and all the hives of hoarded literature in the middle
						ages down to the revival of learning in the fourteenth century --amongst all of these
						treasures, we repeat again--there is not one genuine love-song. What are  the requisites of a love-song? Passion, delicacy,
						tenderness and purity. Of course where passion exists without the other restraining
						qualities the song will be gross. There may be great delicacy between man and woman
						without passion. There may be exquisite tenderness without purity. Delicacy, tenderness
						and purity may exist without passion. In short, any one, two or three of the given
						requisites may exist together in the most finished lyrical production, and yet without
						the other it will not be a genuine love song. Until polygamy was abolished, woman
						elevated, chastity valued, and the marriage tie respected, a genuine love-song was an
						impossible production.
					SEC. 104. A song should be the very essence of poetry. It should
						tell in a small compass a complete story of love, courage, or festivity; or be a full
						expression of morality, or religious feeling. In short, a song should be as complete in
						itself as a play, poem, novel, treatise, or work.
					SEC. 105. Poetry is made of the thoughts and sentiments which build
						their nests in human hearts.
					SEC. 106. A poet should have no more faults than just enough to set
						his beauties in, as caskets are made to hold their jewels.
					SEC. 107. Poetry sometimes inspires the poet to write poetry which
						in nowise resembles that which inspires it.
					SEC. 108. The best poetry can never be widely popular, any more than
						the highest art can be generally appreciated, or the profoundest philosophy universally
						understood.

					SEC. 109. The poet's mission is to please and instruct; to open new
						doors to the mind, and find new  places in the heart; to
						brighten and purify thought, and strike chords which shall vibrate throughout humanity.
						But the Harp of the Muses should be touched only by a cunning hand.
					SEC. 110. The mere versifier is to the true poet what the artificial
						flower is to the natural rose. The art of versifying appears after the genius of poetry
						has fled. Then comes the critic.
					SEC. 111. The critic is generally a man of culture and taste, well
						versed in the form and finish of literary productions--for these can be taught and
						learned--but he is seldom a man of genius or of original power--for these can not be
						taught or learned. There are, therefore, but few critics who understand what is
						original, or can appreciate a work of genius.
					SEC. 112. To criticise an author is to measure him by the standard
						of the critic's capacity. If the critic is greater than the author, he may do him
						justice; if the author is greater than the critic, he must suffer injustice.
					SEC. 113. Literary works live by their own strength, or die of their
						own weakness. The critics can neither write them into life, nor down into death.
					SEC. 114. A new book by an unknown author is blamed for its faults,
						while its merits are overlooked; an old book by a well known author is praised for its
						merits, while its faults are forgotten.
					SEC. 115. None but a poet should criticise a poet; none but a
						mathematician should criticise a mathematician. If a poet were to criticise a
						mathematician, or a mathematician criticise a poet, the criticism would probably be
						absurd.
					SEC. 116. As a cultivator of literature, criticism  has not been successful. Whatever has the true principle of
						life within it will live and flourish without its support; whatever has not, will perish
						in spite of its support. True, it may destroy some weeds, but they are such as would die
						of themselves; and it may discover some flowers, but they are such as would bloom
						without its care.
					SEC. 117. contemporaneous criticism is unreliable. The critic is
						seldom fully informed, and is apt to be unfair. If an author were praised to death, he
						had better die doubting; and if abused into life, he should live fearing; but all will
						die hoping.
					SEC. 118. Criticism instructing genius is like a goose teaching the
						eagle how to fly.
					SEC. 119. Critics at best can but polish the metal of others, and
						are too apt to tarnish it in the process.
					SEC. 120. Criticism is but a moon to the sun of literature, and
						changes quite as often, while the sun shines on forever.
					SEC. 121. The critical and creative powers are not incompatible in
						the same mind. The creative includes the critical, but the critical does not include the
						creative. 
					SEC. 122. A critic without genius is no more capable of criticising
						a work of genius than a blind man is to lecture on colors, or a deaf man to teach music.
						Sense may follow sense, intellect may trace intellect, but only genius can comprehend
						genius.
					SEC. 123. The rays of knowledge from all the East met in focus at
						Greece, whence they were refracted through the West into modern nations; thus it appears
						as if all our ancient knowledge came from Greece,  when in
						fact it arose long before and far beyond the time and place of that polished nation.
					SEC. 124. Literature is the most enduring product of mankind, the
						highest result of civilization. Its material never perishes; swords can not conquer it;
						armies can not destroy it; time can not bury it. Constitutions perish; governments
						disappear; nations crumble; but literature is indestructible. When once produced, it
						remains forever.
				

				

				
					CHAPTER VIII.
					
					
						GOVERNMENT.
					

					SEC. 1. A government is a political organization of the people for
						protecting itself against its enemies, and administering justice to those whom it
						governs. If it does not accomplish these purposes, it is unworthy of the name of
						government.
					SEC. 2. A government, being a corporation, is necessarily selfish.
						It is endowed with representative, not personal powers. There is no place within its
						legitimate functions for friendship, favor, generosity, or charity, and but little room
						for mercy; but it must not oppose these moral virtues. When founded on fixed principles
						of right, the more exactly it is administered the better, provided that it be just.
					SEC. 3. That is the best government which developes the greatest
						industry, the highest intelligence, and the purest morality in the greatest number of
						those whom it governs, and thereby obtains the greatest good to the greatest number of
						its people.
					SEC. 4. In a perfect government every human being that belongs to it
						should be represented, without distinction of age, sex, nationality, color, or
						condition. The legal status of every member of the state should be the same, leaving
						each individual to establish his own mental, moral, social, religious, pecuniary, or any
						other personal status, according to his desire, ability, and merit, under the law.
						Whenever any  person is mentally too weak from infancy,
						age, idiocy, lunacy, or any other cause, to exercise the right of suffrage, it should be
						done for him by his parent, guardian, or by whoever has the legal right over his person
						and property. Such a government may not be practicable now, perhaps never can be, but
						the tendency of all the free governments of earth at the present time is in that
						direction ; and it is the duty of every government to approximate such a stand, and as
						rapidly as the condition of its people will safely allow. 
					SEC. 5. Governments should endeavor to develop the individual. This
						is the only way the race can be elevated. When all the individuals are superior, the
						race must be superior. It is impossible to improve the race at the expense of the
						individual.
					SEC. 6. A free government is the resultant effect of the interests,
						ambition, hope, fear, hatred, friendship, love, honesty, villiany, courage, cowardice,
						patriotism, philanthropy, wisdom, folly, ignorance, of a nation; in short, it is the
						balanced exponent of all the powers of the human heart. And the peace of the world is
						but the equilibrium of the interests and passions of all nations.
					SEC. 7. Despotisms are built by power on the fear and hatred of
						their subjects. Republics are founded on the consent, respect, and love of the governed.
						The one appeals to the best elements in the nature of the individual, and thereby
						elevates him; the other arouses the worst elements in the nature of the individual, and
						thereby degrades him.
					SEC. 8. Despotic governments exclude the people from power, because
						they are dangerous if admitted;  democratic governments
						admit the people to power, because they are dangerous if excluded. Despotism can be
						supported only by the sword, liberty only by reason.
					SEC. 9. An elective Republic, when the people are intelligent, is
						the most permanent of all governments, because the passions of the people find vent in
						free expression and action; whereas, where the people are bound down by the chains of a
						monarchy, or stifled by the sword of a despot, their passions smolder until endurance is
						past enduring, then break out into revolution. In a free government the passions of the
						multitude exhale harmlessly in gentle breezes; under a despotism, they accumulate till
						they burst in a tempest, and desolation follows.
					SEC. 10. A government must be so instituted that neither knaves nor
						fools can overthrow it, or it will not endure long. It is a machine that will not always
						stay in good order. It requires constant repairs, watchful attention, and a skillful
						engineer.
					SEC. 11. A liberal government may often be wrong, but it has the
						means within itself of getting right; a despotic government is always wrong, and never
						has the means within itself of getting right. In the one the people are constantly
						correcting errors; the other they are all always suffering evils. A dspotism degrades
						the governed; an aristocracy oppresses the governed; a republic elevates the governed. 
					SEC. 12. A government based upon rank and property is an excellent
						government for those who posess rank and property; but it ignores the rights of manhood
						and liberty, and leaves the disfranchised  classes
						dissatisfied and difficult to govern, and sooner or later drives them to rebellion or
						revolution.
					SEC. 13. The power of government must exist somewhere. It must be
						given to one, to a minority, or to a majority, and may be exercised justly or abused
						grossly by either. The question, therefore, for statesmen is, where can it be lodged
						with the greatest advantage and safety to mankind? The despot says it is safest in one;
						the aristocrat says it is safest in a minority; the democrat says it is safest in the
						majority. As to nations without intelligence, the despot is right; as to nations with
						but partial intelligence, the aristocrat is right; as to nations of general
						intelligence, the democrat is right.
					SEC. 14. The American governments are formed to restrain the power
						of majorities, and preserve the rights of minorities, and to compel the obedience of
						all. It is not for the majority to oppress, nor for the minority to rebel, but for all
						to obey. Slavery swerved the general government from the path of rectitude, it then drew
						the sword to maintain itself. The sword of the people restored the government to its
						true position, and the votes of the people will maintain it there.
					SEC. 15. The world is not governed by those who know the most, nor
						by those who do the best; but by those who make the best use of what others know and can
						do, which those who govern do not know, and ca not do themselves.
					SEC. 16. In ancient times the heathen--as christians are pleased to
						call them--submitted to kings from necessity; but after the christian era the human race
						could not endure kings and popes, too; accordingly,  after
						they had discovered gunpowder, the mariner's compass, and the printing press, they
						resolved to rule themselves.
					SEC. 17. From the Judean date of creation to the foundation of
						Greece we know but little of the history of mankind. From the establishment of Greece to
						the downfall of Rome mankind enjoyed a greater degree of freedom, and a higher state of
						culture than at any other period of the world before that time. From the downfall of
						Rome to the revival of learning we find the darkest period of human history. From the
						revival of learning to the present time there has been a steady advance of knowledge and
						liberty.
					SEC. 18. Modern nations understand ancient nations, in many
						respects, better than they understood themselves, and future nations will understand the
						present better than they understand themselves. No nation can completely and impartially
						view itself in the midst of the times during which it flourishes.
					SEC. 19. In the politics of the old world, the evil is the tyranny
						of minorities which wield the power; in the new world, the evil is the tyranny of
						majorities. The ballancing of these rights, thus preserving justice and liberty to all,
						is the true art of government.
					SEC. 20. It is impossible to maintain a republic founded on the debris of a decayed monarchy, or on the ruins of a despotism; hence the
						want of progress in government in all the old nations of the world.
					SEC. 21. The revolution of a government by secret fraud is more
						dangerous to liberty than a revolution by open war.

					SEC. 22. It is the usefulness if not the glory of  our government that it can be worked so well by common
						men.
					SEC. 23. Legislative tyranny is worse than the tyranny of a king, or
						despot, for one tyrant is less formidable than many. Against this evil the people have
						provided a written constitution, and the authority of the courts.
					SEC. 24..Every tyrant is a slave with a mask on, for tyranny is
						always based on fear; yet how many hate tyranny simply because they are not the
						tyrants.
					SEC. 25. Despotism established by force must be overthrown by force;
						despotism maintained by superstition must be overthrown by reason. Liberty obtained by
						force must be maintained by justice.
					SEC. 26. Prisons, dungeons, halters, gibbets, tyrants, armies, can
						not destroy a principle, nor can they command respect, friendship, affection, love, or
						reverence.
					SEC. 27. The success of a government depends the distribution and
						equilibrium of its powers.
					SEC. 28. There is no department in government so strong as the
						judiciary while it keeps within its authority, and none so weak when it goes beyond
						it.
					SEC. 29. France is the most interesting nation in the world from the
						reign of Caesar to the present time--barbarian France, feudal France, monarchical
						France, imperial France, republican France, anarchical France; poor, rich, strong, weak,
						wise, foolish, sad, bright, beautiful, gentle, terrible France.
					SEC. 30. The right of revolution is as sacred as 1iberty, and its
						full recognition is necessary to every free nation. The right of a people to risein
						defense of themselves against the government that oppresses them, is  as sacred as the right of self-defense in the individual.
						It is a right not granted by government, and therefore can not be taken away by
						government. It is inherent in man.
					SEC. 31. There is a government of governments, and a law of laws
						which must not be violated. Local governments, and municipal laws, must be subordinated
						to wider generalizations, as all human laws must be subject to the laws of nature.
					SEC. 32. Constitutions and laws do not grant to man the right of
						self-government: they only declare, define and secure it. The right is founded in
						nature, and granted by Almighty God.
					SEC. 33. The constitution and laws of a state are only the
						foundation and frame work of government; to give it excellence and beauty it requires
						sound morals, high culture, and a pure religion.
					SEC. 34. Law, in its largest sense, is a universal rule, in a
						limited sense the rule of nations, a state, or community. Laws have exceptions which are
						necessary but not arbitrary; these exceptions become rules, thus systems within systems
						work in harmony.
					SEC. 35. Human laws are embodied experience and crystallized reason.
						They can not practically be made perfect, as they must necessarily be a compromise
						between the strong and the weak, the wise and the foolish, the rich and the poor, the
						good and the bad, upon some common ground whereon all can stand without wrong to any;
						thus the weak may be supported, the strong restrained, the bad punished, the good
						encouraged, and all protected.
					SEC. 36. The law should never attempt to regulate morals or
						religion--it deals only with rights and  wrongs--but it
						should never oppose either morals or religion.
					SEC. 37. There may be places where there is no law, there may be
						times when there is no law, but there is no time nor place where and when justice is
						not. The sanction of law may be defied, but the principles of justice are eternal and
						can not be evaded.
					SEC. 38. Laws may be made to enforce and equalize men's rights, but
						it is impossible by law to equalize their powers and capacities. To make persons
						socially equal by law is as impossible as to make them mentally, morally, or naturally
						equal by law; but to make persons equal in their rights before the law, is not only
						possible, but practicable, and is the highest attainment in human government.
					SEC. 39. The law must respect all private pursuits, peculiarities,
						or eccentricities in the individual, which do not break the law. The same public law
						must govern the poet and prize-fighter, the philosopher and fool, the christian and the
						infidel.
					SEC. 40. Human will should never affect human law when once
						established; but human law should restrain the human will; yet human law has no sanction
						beyond human penalties.
					SEC. 41. A nation may be robbed of its rights by law, but injustice
						does not take the strength out of the brain and muscle of the people, nor destroy "the
						might that slumbers in a peasant's arm."
					SEC. 42. Money is the legal standard of value, but it is impossible
						in the nature of things to make it the exact measure of value. Governments may establish
						the standard of value, and declare what shall be money, but they can neither make,
						unmake, nor change values.  Number, weight, and quantity
						being determined by fixed and invariable laws, are forever the same; therefore
						measurement by weight, number, or quantity is positive and invariable. The value of any
						commodity depends upon its relation to other commodities; and as long as commodities, in
						their production and consumption, vary in their number, weight, and quantity, in
						relation to one another, the measure of their values will vary also. Money, therefore,
						which is itself a commodity, and variable, can never be the true measure in value of
						number, weight, and quantity, which are invariable. Hence, South Sea schemes,
						Mississippi bubbles, and commercial crises, in a greater or less degree, must ever be
						the attendants of unsound finance and ill-managed political economy.

					SEC. 43. Whatever remains most permanent and uniform, and most
						nearly approximates a standard of value, is the best material for money. Gold and silver
						more nearly fulfill these requisites than any other commodity; but the standard should
						be established by the coin of one kind of metal, and not by both. The two metals must
						necessarily have a relative value to each other, according to their value as
						commodities. Coining them can not affect this relation. If gold coin is the legal
						standard, silver coin will rise or fall in proportion to its value as a commodity when
						compared with gold as a commodity. If silver coin is the legal standard, gold coin would
						rise or fall in relation to silver, just as gold as a commodity would rise and fall in
						relation to silver as a commodity. If gold and silver were both made the legal standard,
						and coined in due proportion to their respective values as commodities, the coin of each
						would fluctuate in relation  to the other the same as
						their respective metals would fluctuate in relation to each other as commodities. It
						would be as impossible to avoid this change of value between the two kinds of coin, as
						it would to coin two pieces of the same metal of unequal weight and fineness, and make
						them of equal value merely by coining them. The change in the relative value of the
						different coins would not take place, practically, as soon as the change takes place
						between the relative value of the two metals as commodities, but would inevitably
						follow, sooner or later, in the natural relation of cause and effect. Money, therefore,
						should possess the intrinsic value, or be the immediately convertible representative of
						the intrinsic value, of the legal standard. It is even then, and at best, but an
						approximate measure of value. Without some such measure it is impossible for any nation
						or judicial system to administer justice between man and man.
					SEC. 44. Whether coin or paper, money should represent the same
						relative value to commodities at the time the debt is paid that it did when the debt was
						contracted; otherwise, either the debtor or creditor is wronged.
					SEC. 45. History proves that no nation yet ever adopted and
						maintained a true financial system. Finance is a science founded in principle. It can be
						understood only by those who make it a special study. As long as the system depends upon
						the ultimate sanction of a parliament, a congress, a legislature, or other popular
						assembly, it will be imperfect, uncertain, and variable. And the difficulty is greatly
						increased by the fact that an erroneous financial policy of one nation or state affects
						every other nation or state with  which it holds
						commercial relations. Besides, no judicial system can be devised by which pecuniary
						justice can be administered without a permanent and uniform standard of value.
					SEC. 46. The laws of nature have their foundation in the order of
						things; human laws, unless they rest upon this foundation, are merely words--they can
						not be administered except by force. Man does not make laws, they exist; he only
						declares what they are.
					SEC. 47. International laws, or the law of nations, are merely the
						expressed or implied agreements between nations; they have no sanction to enforce them
						but arms.
					SEC. 48. The question between governments should not be which can do
						the other the most harm in war, but which can do the other the most good in peace.
					SEC. 49. The highest class of statesmen are noble-minded men, the
						lower class of politicians are either small tyrants or weak slaves.
					SEC. 50. No nation, except during short and exceptional periods, was
						ever governed by its best minds. Statesmen, as a class, do not belong to the highest
						order of intellect, nor are their studies of the highest nature. Government is a
						practical organization, and can not rise much higher than the average intelligence of
						the nation governed. The greatest rulers of the world have been men of sense and action
						rather than of intellect and culture. Plato, Lucretius, Copernicus, Newton, Locke,
						Shakespeare, would have made poor statesmen. Pericles, Bacon, Milton, Franklin, stand as
						exceptions to the rule. Had Luther been a man of fine intellect instead of a man of
						strong sense, the  Reformation would never have turned on
						him. Had Cromwell been a refined scholar, and a man of culture, he never would have
						convulsed England. Had Napoleon been a trained prince instead of a parvenue he never
						would have revolutionized France.
					SEC. 51. It is the composite nature of society that gives a nation
						its strength. A nation of Platos, Newtons, Shakespeares, Goethes, would be weak; even a
						nation of Caesars, Fredericks, Napoleons, Bacons, Franklins, Washingtons, Websters,
						would be less strong than one composed of nature's average material.
					SEC. 52. The rivalry of statesmen should not be as to who shall
						succeed in getting place, but as to who shall do what is best for their country.
					SEC. 53. The statesman is the physician of the commonwealth, the
						politician is the quack.
					SEC. 54. Statesmen should remember that there are interchanges
						between nations far more important than merchandise--their laws, literature, sciences,
						arts, morals, manners, good opinions, kind offices--these attach nations together far
						more enduringly than mere commercial interests.
					SEC. 55. A politician is seldom a statesman, and a statesman is
						never a politician. A great mind never panders to the passing hour.
					SEC. 56. It is the consolation of the statesman that he has deserved
						well of his country; it is the gratification of the politician that never smaller man
						succeeded better.

					SEC. 57. The great public brain and heart have ever proved wiser in
						crises than the wisest statesman, and more efficient than armies. There is a dignity  and grandeur in the deliberate voice of the people which
						the nation obeys and the world respects.
					SEC. 58. Heroes and statesmen must have armies and multitudes to
						give them fame; poets and philosophers win their laurels alone.
					SEC. 59. Heroes and orators flourish most in turbulent times.
						Demosthenes required a Phillip, Scipio a Hannibal, Cicero a Cataline, Caesar a Pompey,
						Cromwell a Charles the First, Washington a George the Third, and Napoleon the Bourbons,
						to make them great. It were better not to have orators and heroes if we could avoid the
						wrongs which call them out, yet far better to have them than to endure the wrongs which
						they redress. The nation most free, and best governed, will have the fewest heroes and
						orators.
					SEC. 60. When the people cease to love their heroes the love of
						liberty is dead. The mortal wound received for liberty shall make them immortal.
					SEC. 61. Reason is the weapon of freemen; despots speak through the
						cannon's mouth. War is the "last reason of kings," and also of brutes.
					SEC. 62. Desire of distinction is the great mover of the human
						heart. The victory of a prize-fighter in the ring is not less to him than victory in the
						battlefield of liberty is to a Washington. The President does not feel his distinction
						more than the man who drives his coach.
					SEC. 63. The sea has bounds, but ambition none. Like the pearl in
						the oyster, it grows with its disease. It was ambition that led the Devil to fight his
						Maker; ambition called down the flood and destroyed the world; ambition built the Tower
						of Babel, and scattered the nations of the earth; ambition walks across  the bosom of friendship, and treads into the dust all that
						is good and holy. It paves its road with human skulls, and builds its monuments with
						human bones. Strange passion! With some the whole world is too small a stage for their
						ambition, while it is the ambition of others, simply--not to be ambitious.
					SEC. 64. A serpent may crawl up to the mountain's peak; an eagle can
						perch no higher. Honor lies not in high position, but in the mode by which it is
						obtained. Unfortunately, however, the road to place too often lies through a long lane,
						which, generally, is very crooked, and sometimes exceedingly dirty.
					SEC. 65. That beautiful word patriotism is
						sometimes painfully suggestive of ambition, oppression, war, bloodshed. How much
						narrower its meaning than the love of men, nations, justice, and fixed right?
					SEC. 66. Fame's trumpet discovers sweet music to the ambitious ear,
						and while she has breath to blow it, she will be pursued wherever she leads. Honors grow
						amidst perils.
					SEC. 67. Kings are robed in purple and fine linen; princes are
						covered with the cloth of gold; statesmen are dressed in the panoply of their nation's
						power; politicians are sometimes dressed in broadcloth, but generally wear very dirty
						underclothes.
					SEC. 68. The great number of petty politicians, and small
						demagogues, is the most unfortunate incident to free institutions; yet this evil is far
						less than the oppression of royal, hereditary, or aristocratic power.
					SEC. 69. Every exercise of power in the individual, not necessary to
						his own right, which is adverse to the rights of another, is oppression; and every
						exercise  of power in a government, which is not necessary
						to the rights of all, is tyranny.
					SEC. 70. Politicians are mere puppets, who do not act according to
						their own volition, but as the wires are pulled. They do not breathe their own air, but
						live on the breath of others.
					SEC. 71. Ignorant fools in power are more dangerous than wise
						tyrants. There is a remedy against tyrants, but none against fools. How many fools and
						knaves have been in high places, while the wise and good were in dungeons!
					SEC. 72. Some men elevate their station; some stations elevate their
						men. Advantages conferred by favor are unstable, but, those commanded by worth, are
						permanent.
					SEC. 73. Never strive to conquer when the victory is worthless; and
						never be conquered when defeat is a disgrace. It may be becoming in a gentleman to
						retreat to the wall, but it never can be honorable for him to get behind it.
					SEC. 74. In the earliest wars individuals fought, soon families,
						next classes, then races, and finally nations.
					SEC. 75. A man may know the surface of the sea, and navigate it with
						skill, yet be ignorant of its depths, and the bottom on which it rests; so may a man be
						a successful politician, or man of the world, and yet be a very shallow fellow.
					SEC. 76. The ballot-box is the Ark of Liberty.
					SEC. 77. A vote of all the people on the basis of manhood suffrage,
						reflects all the knowledge, judgment, skill, courage, tastes, interests, wants,
						passions, hopes, and fears of a nation; and this is the only  source from which rulers can ascertain what they have to deal with. A vote
						of all the wisest and best, if they could be ascertained, would be an unsafe guide, for
						it would leave the most dangerous elements of government concealed. A vote solely of all
						the property-holders, or of the moral, or of the religious, or of any other class, would
						be just as defective, and an unsafe guide for the ruler. No one class of men can
						represent another class, much less can they represent a nation. The best and the worst,
						and all, of any subject must be known or we can not judge of it correctly.
					SEC. 78. Oratory can be sustained only by a full head and a warm
						heart.
					SEC. 79. Place confers honor on small men; great men confer honor on
						place. A great man in a small place is either grand or contemptible; a small man in a
						great place is either dangerous or ridiculous.
					SEC. 80. Human society is at best but a very imperfect machine, and
						often most severely rubs when it seems to run the smoothest.
					SEC. 81. A mob has many hands and no head.
					SEC. 82. Practical politics enforces one to do many things which are
						wounding to a true sense of candor and independence. While the rewards of political life
						are advantageous, they are generally obtained by a sacrifice of our nicer feelings, and
						often at the expense of true manhood. Our politicians are never of a high order of men.
						They prosper only in the "weak and piping times of peace." In a national crisis they
						have neither the courage nor the wisdom to guide the ship of state, yet are always the
						first to provoke the storm. In such times the country  is
						rescued by men who in time of peace are never clamorous for position. The practice of
						politics is an art which becomes very much debased in the hands of inferior men.
					SEC. 83. The Tories would regulate human nature by parliament; the
						Whigs would regulate parliament by human nature. This is the difference between the
						political parties of England.
					SEC. 84. When the greatest public virtue can not obtain the highest
						public honors, patriotism is endangered; and when the highest honors can be obtained
						without corresponding merit, there is no incentive left to noble minds to enter the
						public service.
					SEC. 85. The populace are naturally opposed to wealth, rank,
						oppression, and will sometimes break out against them with violence when their rights
						are denied them; but there is no instance when masses of people continued to oppose
						talent, genius, courage, justice, kindness, or any of the great virtues known to human
						nature. Do justice to a people and they will never seek vengeance; and when a government
						does justice to the governed there is no danger of revolution. 
					SEC. 86. Free government is, the triumph of the understanding of man
						over his passions and selfishness--the noblest monument that he can build on earth.

					SEC. 87. It is better to die to save your country for others, than
						to live and lose it for yourself.
					SEC. 88. The people furnish the power of government, the laws
						regulate its machinery.
					SEC. 89. Either human liberty or ultramontanism must succumb. This
						is the question which the western  nations of the eastern
						hemisphere must decide, The Turkish question is far less complicated and dangerous than
						this.
					SEC. 90. Civilization, the arts and sciences, literature, ature,
						morals, religion, flourished in the East during many centuries, while all Europe was
						sunk in barbarism, yet Europe affects to look upon the East as barbarous. 
					SEC. 91. Society must inspire our private virtues; government must
						punish our public vices.
					SEC. 92. As well pen up the air for the few to breathe, claim the sun-light
						for the favored ones, or forbid the water to flow for the many, as to deny freedom to
						the human race. It belongs to them; it is their right, and they will have it ultimately
						in spite of wrong and oppression in whatever shape it may come.
					SEC. 93. Corruption in government comes from the top--from the few
						who rule. Here and there one of the many who vote may be corrupt, but they are generally
						found to be one against another on opposite sides, so the general result is not
						materially changed. Masses of men can not be corrupted suddenly all one way; but rulers
						by a single act may destroy the liberties of an entire people.
					SEC. 94. However warm our patriotism may be we should never forget
						that the world is wider than our country, and that the rights of man are universal. SEC. 95. The man with no particular individuality and no strong
						convictions, is easily shaped by circumstances. In whatever rank, class, or pursuit he
						happens to be born, in that he will remain. Such constitute the bulk of mankind. They
						are the conservative  element in church and state. They
						hold what bolder spirits gain, and retain what more timid spirits would lose; and thus,
						while they clog advancement, they prevent retrogression.
					SEC. 96. The best class of minds desire to outlive their age with
						true and honorable fame, and pay but little regard to the present time; a lighter class
						of minds desire power, applause and aggrandisement while they live, and care but little
						for the future; a third and meaner class seek only for power that they may make
						themselves rulers and tyrants and show their great importance; the lowest
						class--harmless and useless--simply desire to eat, drink and be merry while they live,
						neither thinking nor caring for the future. There are a few which "do every thing by
						starts and nothing long," and can not, therefore, be classified. 
					SEC. 97. How can there be high birth and low birth when all are born
						of dust?
					SEC. 98. Ability is better than nobility.
					SEC. 99. Our wants govern us more than our wills.
					SEC. 100. Punishments, like magnitudes, seem much greater when near
						than when far away.
					SEC. 101. After a victory, it is never hard to find a reason for the battle,
						though it was ill fought; after a defeat, there are none so foolish that they may not
						show the cause, though the battle was well fought.
					SEC. 102. Liberty, by giving equal rights to all, tends to destroy
						individual distinction, by elevating all.
					SEC. 103. There is many a head that could rule a state, and not
						command a heart. 



					

					SEC. 104. Science shall bring the jewels, and Art shall make the
						diadem of Liberty.
					SEC. 105. A crown will not defend the head that wears it from the
						storms of life.
					SEC. 106. The Temple of Fame is seldom entered by storm; it must be
						gained by labor and patience; and it is often reached by some quiet path or neglected
						by-way.
					SEC. 107. To make a man worthy of freedom, you must give him
						freedom; to teach him how to exercise power, he must be entrusted with power.
					SEC. 108. Peace is a great blessing to a nation, but it must
						sometimes be obtained and preserved by war. It is a precious pearl in a sea of
						trouble.
					SEC. 109. Wrongs may be written in ink as well as in blood; unequal
						laws are as oppressive as the sword.
					SEC. 110. A good citizen should no more oppose the law than a true
						soldier would desert his flag.
					SEC. 111. Be not above a man, nor yet below a king.
					SEC. 112. Liberty may be won in the battle-field, but it can be
						preserved only by equal laws.
					SEC. 113. The sword is but useless iron without an arm to wield it,
						and the arm but brute force without a mind to guide it.
					SEC. 114. It is better that all should have a little than that a few
						should have all.
					SEC. 115. Men of thought lay out the world's work for men of
						inferior minds to execute.
					SEC. 116. True liberty consists in not being restrained from doing
						right, and in not being constrained to do wrong.




					

					SEC. 117. Justice is the truest friendship and the purest love, and
						the greatest good that a government can bestow on a people.
					SEC. 118. The abuse of power is the greatest evil that can befall
						mankind. The abuse of spiritual power is the greatest, and of temporal the next, because
						they grow out of the perversion of truth and right. Other evils which spring from
						ignorance gradually disappear with the advancement of knowledge.
					SEC. 119. Justice is founded in nature, independent of society, the
						same as cause, effect, order, beauty, or any other relation which the things of the
						universe bear to one another. It is as fixed in the moral world as the law of
						gravitation in the physical universe.
					SEC. 120. It is impossible to understand law thoroughly, and apply
						it justly, without also understanding philosophy, science, art, literature, government,
						morals, mechanics, the skill of the professions and of artisans, and even common
						labor.
					SEC. 121. The judicial department of government should possess no
						political power, nor power to dispense or receive patronage of any kind. If it does,
						however wise and upright its officers may be, and however justly they may exercise their
						power, they can not escape blame, and when their conduct is questioned their usefulness
						is impaired; besides, there would be a constant fear and danger that they would become
						corrupt.
					SEC. 122. When a court accommodates its opinions to local
						expediency, or temporary policy, it compromises its duty and sacrifices principle. The
						American courts are entrusted with the power--a power not conferred upon any other
						courts of the world--to declare  legislation void whenever
						it violates the constitution, and it is their high duty, in such cases, to exercise the
						power; otherwise constitutions would become useless, indeed, worse, they would become a
						mockery. A court that failed in this duty would soon undermine governments, destroy
						private rights, and render human liberty insecure.
					SEC. 123. The danger to be feared from the highest court of
						judicature in a state, from which no appeal can be taken, is, that it may become the
						refuge of wrong instead of the citadel of right.
					SEC. 124. Liberty and justice must flourish or perish together.
						Where there is no justice there is no liberty, and where there is no liberty there is no
						justice.
					SEC. 125. Any system of enforced labor continually retrogrades
						towards despotism, by the subjugation of the weakest members of the community by the
						strongest till society becomes divided into a few masters and many slaves; then wars,
						duels, and assassinations soon complete the desolation. Nothing is expedient which is
						not just.
					SEC. 126. The attention of the world in this age is attracted to the
						philosophy, history, and poetry of common life and common things. During former periods
						philosophy was confined to the few, history noticed kings, reigns, princes, courts,
						sieges, battles, revolutions, without paying any attention to peasants, laborers,
						artisans, or the condition of the people. Poetry sang of heroes rulers, wars, loves,
						intrigues, murder, and not of the hopes and fears, and joys and sorrows of the common
						people. Now the masses are taught philosophy, history records social life, and  poetry chants the loves and joys of the many, and gives
						expression to the universal heart of man.
					SEC. 127. Perhaps the individual man will never reach a higher
						degree of perfection than the best specimens of ancient Greece, Rome, modern Europe or
						America ; yet there is great room for the elevation and improvement of the many.
					SEC. 128. There never were but two men--Plato and Shakespeare--above
						classification. They stand alone yet unlike, and each without an equal. The world has
						many heroes of the Hannibal, Csar, Napoleon type; and as for kings, with few
						exceptions, they differed in nothing from the common herd except in wearing ribbons on
						their horns. Royalty is the emptiest of all shams. Princes, and titled nobility are made
						by the breath of kings--not by the breath of God, as man was made. Philosophers in all
						ages and nations have been alike. Poets can be classified. Historians are but clerks,
						and the more like clerks in simply taking down the facts, the better; statesmen are
						alike the world over when circumstances are the same. As for politicians they are formed
						like other fungi wherever there is a pile of filth, and most abundant
						when the filth is deepest and foulest.
					SEC. 129. There is a dignity and worth about such characters as
						Socrates, and Diogenes, which, even in the poverty and neglect they endured, is far more
						to be honored than the fame of all the heartless tyrants, haughty princes, flippant
						demagogues, and sordid misers which ruled the world during the same
					SEC. 130. A man to be great must have an epoch. Moses, Confucius,
						Zoroaster, Plato, Alexander, Scipio,  Csar, Charlemagne,
						Luther, Newton, Shakespeare, Napoleon, Washington, could not have been what they were at
						any other period in the world's history; than that in which each one lived. Moses,
						Confucius, and Zoroaster, each founded a religious and a moral code suited to the time,
						place, and people which they taught; Plato was the ripe fruit of Greek philosophy;
						Alexander was the last universal conqueror; Scipio was the defender of Rome; Csar was
						the culmination of the Roman civil wars; the Gaul, the Roman, and the Frank were ready
						for the union when Charlemagne united them under his empire; the corruption of the old
						church, formed in fraud and bloodshed, commenced selling sin of any given quality or
						quantity at a fixed price, and prepared the way for Luther. Copernicus, and the
						preceding philosophers, had surveyed the heavens and left Newton to discover the law of
						gravitation by which bodies were governed; Shakespeare was prepared by the history which
						preceded him, the improvement of the English language, and the lifeless dramas which
						then prevailed, to show the world and human nature upon the stage; fifteen centuries of
						wrong,tyranny, and misrule showed Napoleon his field; and the new world was ready for a
						new nation when Washington appeared. Put any one of these in the time and place of any
						other one of them, and the proof of the proposition will be apparent at once.
					SEC. 131. Slavery is the same whether political, religious, moral,
						or physical; whether we are bound in cords of silk, or chains of iron; whether
						glittering in diamonds, or weighted down with rocks. The free air is sweeter than
						perfumes, and the bright sun more beautiful than burnished gold.




					
					SEC. 132. Passion checks passion, desire controls desire, motive
						balances motive, thought corrects thought; and thus is moved and governed this
						complicated, compound, mysterious being-man.
					SEC. 133. The human mind was full of the elements of the revolutions
						of the past before they occurred, of reformations before they were accepted, of
						inventions before they were discovered, of the great works of literature before they
						were written, and of the highest works of art before they were wrought. They were the
						fragmentary thoughts of the many, gathered, co-ordinated and asserted by the few.
					SEC. 134. The thinker should think for the actor, the actor should
						act for the thinker; so is the world directed, and moved; but he is the perfect man who
						is both thinker and actor at the same time.
					SEC. 135. "The pen is mightier than the sword;" and thought is
						mightier than both--for pen and sword combined can never govern thought, but thought can
						govern pen and sword.
					SEC. 136. Thought governs all things. It is the great ruling power.
						Law, the pen, the sword, are but instruments of thought. They do not govern--they are
						governed. Thought precedes judgment and action. We can conceive of creation only as
						having first been the thought of God. Indeed, the universe to us is but the thought of
						God made manifest to man.
					SEC. 137. During the Dark Ages the pope was the political sun of the
						world; kings and emperors were his planets, some of which were allowed a few princes and
						princesses as moons. History witnesses that during that degraded period, in all
						Christendom, there was no rational human liberty. Philosophy was ignored,  science strangled, morality defied, and art and literature
						subjugated to the service of the church. In secret indecencies many of thie monks
						rivaled the Romans at their Festival of Venus, or the Greeks in the worship of
						Priapus.
					SEC. 138. Royal, aristocratic, and sacredotal power have been the
						great hindrances to human liberty. They serve no useful purpose in the advancement of
						the human race. The assumption of royal or aristocratic power over man is usurpation,
						the assumption of sacredotal power--for it is the assumption of the power of God by man
						over man--is sacrilege.
					SEC. 139. The persecutions of the church have made heroes, its
						anathemas have sanctified patriots, and its excommunications have consecrated human
						liberty.
					SEC. 140. The first century of American liberty has advanced the
						human race more than the ten centuries of English government--from Egbert to Victoria.
						Individual liberty, manhood sufferage, and equality before the law, form the basis and
						structure of American governments; while class privilege, property: suffrage, and that
						inequality before the law which they inevitably beget--each oppressing the next below
						--form the pyramid of the English government. Its apex rises above the plain, but its
						base lies heavily on those below.
					SEC. 141. Royalty, aristocracy, and an established church, sit like
						incubi on the people of a nation. They belong to the period of tyrants, when the human
						race was governed by the power and caprice of despots instead of by known laws and
						order; when the multitude supposed that the universe was ruled by the  whims of gods hidden in the clouds, showering down baleful
						influences upon humanity, riding on the winds, directing the storms, breeding famine by
						their greediness, and shaking pestilence from their wings; or disturbed by gods secreted
						in caves stirring up earthquakes and volcanoes. They had no idea of eternal principles
						and fixed laws which take care alike of the soul of man and the smallest atom of matter.
						Royalty oppresses aristocracy, aristocracy oppresses the people, the church oppresses
						all, until equality, fraternity and humanity are lost in conventionalities, and liberty
						destroyed by despotism.
					SEC. 142. It is the great middle class that founds, supports, and
						defends nations. The luxury and idleness of the wealthy class, and the poverty and
						ignorance of the suffering class, are the curses of national prosperity, and the
						weaknesses of a nation; in its dangers both extremes are generally vicious and always
						useless.
					SEC. 143. A nation is powerful in proportion to the extent of its
						territory, its richness in resources, the freedom of its government, the energy and
						intelligence of its people. In the family of nations the position of one in relation to
						another may be a source of either weakness or strength; isolation or contiguity of weak
						and strong nations may add to their mutual strength or weakness.
					SEC. 144. Mankind are yet in their swaddling clothes, or they would
						not allow themselves to be ruled by the usurped power of popes, kings, emperors, or any
						other rulers, by whatever name they may be called, except such as derive their authority
						from those whom  they govern. There is no other source of
						earthly power.
					SEC. 145. Revolution in government is more dangerous to rulers than
						to the people. Every revolution in the western nations since the Revival of Learning,
						has advanced the liberties of the people. No nation ever won its liberties except by
						revolution; no nation ever lost its liberties by revolution. The people lose their
						liberties by the forms of law made in violation of their liberties; their liberties can
						not be wrested from them by an appeal to arms, and when they are in danger the latter is
						the lesser evil. The election of a ruler by the device of an ex post
							facto law, after he had been defeated according to the constitution, is more
						dangerous to the liberties of the people, than revolution itself, for if submitted to
						once it becomes a precedent to compel submission on the next occasion. It is by such
						stealthy, yet apparently peaceable means that nations lose their liberties.
					SEC. 146. If the freedom of the mind is inalienable, so is the
						freedom of the soul; and a church has no more right to interfere with the freedom of the
						soul than a state has to interfere with the freedom of the mind. A church or state which
						does either is despotism.
					SEC. 147. The human race are indebted to gunpowder for their liberty
						more than to any other one thing. It raised warfare above mere brute force, equalized
						the weaker with the stronger, and gave the people power to resist their tyrants, and
						defend themselves. 
					SEC. 148. The divine right of kings to rule mankind as a dogma of
						government, is abolished; the divine  right of man to be
						free and govern himself is established; yet the complete freedom of all men can never be
						obtained nor secured as long as the pretended infallibility of a pope or a church rules
						over any portion of the human race. Religion and freedom are divine gifts from God to
						man, but a church government is no more divine than a civil government; nor has religion
						any more right to interfere with civil government, than civil government has to
						interfere with religion. Neither religious liberty nor civil liberty can be granted or
						denied by government--they are gifts directly to man from his creator--but both ought to
						be protected and secured by government. The establishment of a church by a civil
						government, or the establishment of a civil government by a church, are both usurpations
						of power. Church government as a polity does not protect the individual either in
						property, body, mind, or soul, but embarrasses or enslaves him in all; and, as a polity,
						has always been inferior to state polity, even in the worst and most despotic periods of
						history. All power exercised by a church over the individual--either in person or
						property, mind or soul, is a usurpation. Religion is a question solely between the
						creature and the Creator; the creature may not assume the power of the Creator. But the
						power of civil government is not a usurpation. It is a question solely between man and
						man, and is founded on the implied consent or expressed agreement between those who
						govern and those who are governed. Man may confer authority on man, and revoke it when
						it ceases to subserve its end and purpose, even by revolution. If a man is born within a
						government, comes within it voluntarily, and remains under it,  he thereby agrees to it; and while he remains by consent, the government
						agrees to protect him according to its polity. Church government and civil government
						can never exist together in peace; either, as to the other, is imperium
						in
						imperio.

					SEC. 149. The greatest problem in morals and policy, and the one
						most difficult of solution, the ope which so far has perplexed government, morals and
						religion, is the relation of the sexes. In the early history of the human race this
						relation was promiscuous. Afterwards, by the right of capture, man asserted a right of
						property in woman, and, subsequently, the same right was allowed by purchase. At length
						a rude marriage contract, of imperfect obligation, was entered into between the parties,
						which was improved into the marriage contract of the Civil Law of the Romans, and
						ultimately settled by the common law of England, and which is gradually being perfected
						by statute throughout the civilized world. In Greece, courtesans--amongst whom"
						Theadata, Diatinia, and Aspasia, were of the highest type--formed, intellectually, the
						ruling class of women, and were not despised nor ignored socially. In Rome, they sank as
						a class somewhat below their position in Greece; but even wives were not wholly
						strangers to the practice, with the knowledge of their husbands. Down to the time of
						Louis Fourteenth of France, and George Second of England, the keeping of courtesans by
						royalty, nobility, and the wealthy commonalty, was not, an was scarcely attempted to be,
						concealed. Since then amongst the nations which derive their government and laws from
						the Romans, prostitution has been regulated by law; and amongst the nations which  derive their policy from the common law of England, the act
						of prostitution, as a specific offense, has been ignored. Prostitution is disappearing
						where the natural, political, and moral rights of men and women are placed upon their
						true and equal basis; and when the marriage contract is reformed so as to harmonize with
						these rights, then prostitution will probably cease, but not before. Nature knows no
						prostitution; it is a conventionalism of human law, and a wise conventionalism will
						remove it from society.
					SEC. 150. From a scientific point of view, monogamous marriages
						deteriorate the human race. The history of royalty, nobility, aristocracy, ancient
						families, or any other artificial distinction in mankind prove this proposition.
						Promiscuous and unrestrained intercourse of course degrades the race. The natural
						selection of fitness, from choice, if it could be governed by law without infringing
						justice, would improve, reform, and elevate the race, in body, mind, and soul.
						Philosophers, men of science, and statesmen, must ultimately solve this question.
					SEC. 151. The natural, legal, and political rights of parents over
						their children, are systematized and defined; but neither the natural, legal, nor
						political rights of children are well defined or understood. They need study and
						elucidation. There is no great and sufficient work on the Rights of Childhood within he
						range of human learning.
					SEC. 152. The progress of the nineteenth century rapidly improving
						the moral condition and religious freedom of man, rendering the laws of the different
						nations more uniform, and international law more liberal, reducing the necessity of
						wars, uniting the  literatures of the nations, and making
						the world of mind common to all. It is to be hoped that progress will ultimately give
						rational liberty to all mankind.
					SEC. 153. Greece and Rome are nearer the nineteenth century, except
						in time, than the thousand years which succeeded them. After their downfall the western
						nations receded in government, civilization, and culture, until the revival of learning
						in the fifteenth century.
					SEC. 154. In the American Declaration of Independence, it is
						asserted that "all men are born free and equal." The assertion does not mean that all
						men are born "equal" in size, weight, strength, mind, powers, spirit, or courage--nor
						will the context bear any such construction--but that they are born free and "equal" in
						rights. That Englishmen should carp at the phraseology of the Declaration, or that
						despotic rulers should deny its truth, is not surprising, but that an American statesman
						could be found quibbling upon the words, when the Revolution, the Constitution of the
						United States, and the constitutions of thirty-eight states, and the courts of the
						United States, and the courts of the separate states, during a century, have so
						unmistakably settled the meaning of the Declaration, is surprising to the patriot and
						discouraging to the philanthropist. That men are born unequal in the various powers and
						capacities of our common nature, and that their rulers, for this inequality, denied them
						equal rights, were the causes which created the necessity of the assertion in the
						Declaration, and what required gunpowder and the sword to maintain, and what still
						requires constitutions and courts, and all the wisdom of statesmen to preserve,  and what without manhood suffrage, never can be preserved.
						The Declaration is not only the Declaration of American Independence, but it is the
						Charter of Human Liberty.
					SEC. 155. If man can not govern himself, there is no power on earth
						to govern him. To say that man can not govern himself, but that kings and rulers can
						govern him, is a solecism--for kings and rulers are but men.
					SEC. 156. A common objection to manhood suffrage by those who
						distrust the people, is that it gives the ballot to a class that is easily influenced,
						and will sell their votes for money, or other corrupt consideration. This may be true of
						individuals, but it is not true of any class; and experience proves that the corruption
						of the voter--which is so easy to detect--is far less injurious to the commonwealth than
						the corruption of the man for whom he votes--which is so hard to discover. The
						representative of power will sell hundreds and thousands of the votes he represents at a
						single transaction. Besides, a class that is disfranchised is harder to govern, and more
						dangerous to community than the same class with the right of suffrage; the evil,
						therefore, is greater to deny them the right than to grant it to them.
					SEC. 157. The lawyer, of his own knowledge, can not wisely choose
						his physician, nor the physician his lawyer; the merchant can not, of his knowledge,
						prudently choose his mechanic or artisan, nor can the mechanic or artisan wisely choose
						his merchant. The farmer, of his own knowledge, can not choose his manufacturer, nor the
						wisest sage his tailor; yet there are men who deny the capacity of the people to choose
							 their rulers. If the sage can not choose his tailor,
						how can he choose his ruler? He should not say that the people can not choose their
						rulers. No one, outside of his own profession, art, skill, or trade, by the knowledge of
						his own business only, is capable of wisely choosing a person to serve him in any other
						business; but every person makes an impression of his own character, whether it be good
						or bad, upon his family, friends, neighborhood, county, state, or nation, and a few upon
						the world. It is by this impression that men become known, and by this impression we
						choose our lawyers, doctors, ministers, artists, artisans, mechanics, laborers; and by
						the reputation so formed, the people choose their rulers; and there is no source of
						power so safe and wise as the people who represent the professions, arts, various
						pursuits, property, interests, and wants of a nation. The great public mind and heart
						are wiser than any statesman. A government by one or more classes, not representing all,
						would either ignore or oppress the other classes. The strong would oppress the weak; the
						wise would overreach the simple; the rich would take advantage of the poor; the
						dishonest would cheat the honest; and thus ruin or revolution would follow. Manhood
						suffrage, "the ballot and the bullet," are the only security for the people against
						tyranny and oppression; and when the ballot will not suffice, the bullet becomes
						legitimate. There is no danger of their using the bullet while the ballot will suffice.
						A people that can vote, and have the taxes to pay and the fighting to do, will never
						make war rashly. But a people that can not vote, and are oppressed, are difficult to
						govern, and are ready for war at any time. It does  not
						require genius, nor great talent, nor the "much learning that makes men mad," to vote
						sensibly on all questions of government. The healthy normal head and heart are
						sufficient. God is not mistaken in his creation; humanity is not a failure.
					SEC. 158. In the United States the political power is already in the
						Mississippi Valley. The southern and northern portions, lying east of the Alleghanies,
						will never harmonize entirely, and but for the Mississippi Valley would probably
						separate. The southern and northern portions lying west of the Rocky Mountain range will
						also naturally antagonize, and but for the Mississippi Valley would probably separate.
						The security of the Union lies with the people of the Mississippi Valley. As long as
						they can harmonize the southern gulf region and the northern lake region, the Union will
						endure; but the ties which unite, and the bands which bind the states together, must run
						east and west. No natural cause exists to separate states lying in the same line of
						latitude; while natural causes, as differences in climate, productions, habits, and
						commercial interests, are constantly at work which tend to separate states lying in the
						same line of longitude.
					SEC. 159. While the American people keep the ballot in their own
						hands, they will preserve their liberties. Yield that, and all is gone. Restrict it to a
						property qualification, and manhood is emasculated. Far better extend suffrage to women
						at once. When their sex generally demands it, instead of a small minority, it will be
						granted to them. At best, suffrage can not be universal. In America, even, where it is
						given to the male sex generally, but one sixth  can vote;
						extend it to women, and still not more than one third of the population can vote. When
						the government puts the ballot in the hands of a man, it appeals to the best elements of
						his nature, and makes him governable through his will. When it denies a man the ballot,
						it arouses the worst elements of his nature, and makes him ungovernable except by the
						force that governs brutes. A population without the ballot is far more difficult to
						govern, and more dangerous to the commonwealth than one with the ballot. When the
						American people give up the ballot, they will lose their liberty; and when the American
						people lose their liberty, the liberty of the human race is lost forever.
					SEC. 160. Every citizen should love his state, but he should love
						the Union more; he should be proud of the name Virginian, Ohioan, Carolinian,
						Indianaian, or whatever name his state may bear, yet he should be still prouder of the
						name American.
					SEC. 161. In devotion to the Union, the minds of the American people
						should be as one mind, their wills as one will, and their souls as one soul; then indeed
						will the Union be perfect and indissoluble. 
				
				

				
					CHAPTER IX.
					
					
						MORALS.
					

					SEC. 1. In the universe, as a unity, there is neither right nor
						wrong, good nor bad, here nor there, now nor then, up nor down, high nor low, nor any
						other relation. It is one, unconditioned and absolute.
					SEC. 2. In the abstract there is neither right nor wrong, good nor
						evil, just nor unjust. These qualities are not inherent in things; they exist in the
						relation of things. There is nothing which was, is and must be, but truth.
					SEC. 3. Truth is positive, absolute, infinite, eternal. Right,
						wrong, good, bad, virtue, vice, beauty, deformity, are mere relations which exist upon
						conditions, and are never absolute.
					SEC. 4. There can be no such thing as a lie--that is, something
						being different from what it is. The lie consists in something being made to appear
						different from what it is; the truth consists in the thing being as it is.
					SEC. 5. Morals consist in the relations of things and actions.
						Morality is the right relative of things and actions, thereby good follows; immorality
						is the wrong relative of things and actions, whereby bad follows.
					SEC. 6. There is no thing in the universe which, of itself, has any
						quality of either right or wrong, or good or bad. There is no action in the universe  which, of itself, has any quality of either right or wrong,
						or good or bad.
					SEC. 7. The quality of right or wrong, or good or bad, in a thing
						exists in its relation to some other thing or action; the quality of right or wrong, or
						good or bad, in an action, exists in its relation to some other action or thing.
					SEC. 8. There is no thing in the universe which may not have the
						quality of either right or wrong, or good or bad, according to its relation to some
						other thing or action; there is no action in the universe which may not have the quality
						of either right or wrong, or good or bad, according to its relation to some other action
						or thing.
					SEC. 9. When the murderer slays his victim, all mankind cry out, the
						deed is wrong; when the executioner slays the murderer, all mankind cry out, the deed is
						right; yet the mere act of slaying is the same in each instance, the difference being in
						the relation of the slayer to the slain. In the first instance the slayer is guilty, the
						slain is innocent and the slaying unjustifiable; in the second instance the slayer is
						innocent, the slain guilty and the slaying justifiable. It is clear, therefore, that the
						mere act of slaying has, intrinsically, no quality of right or wrong, good or bad.
					SEC. 10. All things have their relations to each thing; each thing
						has its relation to all things. Whatever is right in its relation to all things must be
						right in its relation to any one thing.
					SEC. 11. To man the quality of either right or wrong, or good or
						bad, exists in the relations of things and actions to man, without reference to such  relations being either right or wrong, or good or bad, to
						any other being, or to the universe. If man was different from what he is the relations
						would affect him differently from what they do, although they were not changed.
					SEC. 12. Man is endowed by his Creator with intellect, reason and
						judgment, and with a sense of justice, pity and mercy. With these powers and faculties
						he is capable of obtaining a knowledge of truth, by which he may judge of falsehood and
						error, right and wrong, good and bad, beauty and ugliness, pleasure and pain, and thus,
						by choosing between them, in his relation to the Creator, the universe, time and
						eternity, make himself either happy or miserable. 
					SEC. 13. Human nature is stronger than all the corruptions and
						temptations which beset it. Though it may be debased or may swerve for a time, it will
						ultimately purify itself and assert its true position.
					SEC. 14. Even while we are surrounded with the false, bad and ugly,
						the eternal ideas of truth, goodness and beauty are with us. Neither walls, roofs, nor
						darkness can shut these from the mind, heart, and soul of man. They are as omnipresent
						as God Himself.
					SEC. 15. A man can no more be happy with an uneasy conscience in his
						breast than he can be with coals of fire on his head.
					SEC. 16. All pain, merely as pain, is evil, and is good only as it
						leads to good; all pleasure, merely as pleasure, is good, and is evil only as it leads
						to evil.
					SEC. 17. There is neither right nor wrong, error  nor evil, good nor bad, vice nor virtue, beauty nor
						ugliness, in nature. Her forces know neither pain, pleasure, fear, hope, love, hate,
						pity, passion, desire, wish or emotion; they have neither design, purpose nor motive.
						Nature is forever at peace. Truth is one and eternal. That which must be, and must act,
						deserves neither praise nor blame.
					SEC. 18. We are conscious of a class of truths which are absolute
						and unconditional, and we are conscious of a class of truths which are relative and
						conditional. We are conscious of our own volition, and that our volition can not affect
						unconditional and absolute truths, and we are conscious that our volition can affect
						certain relative and conditional truths. These two classes of truths form the entire
						circle of human knowledge, beyond which we can not go, and within the latter class of
						which lies all of human responsibility. Without voluntary power there can be neither
						vice nor virtue.
					SEC. 19. Error is simply something out of its proper place; evil is
						something out of its proper place which produces injury. To commit an error is simply to
						put something out of its proper place; to commit an immoral act is to put something out
						of its proper place for the purpose of producing injury.
					SEC. 20. Truth is, was, and must be. It is the only principle which
						can have no opposite. Changing the relation of things, or the relations of actions, does
						not affect truth.
					SEC. 21. Moral belief is sometimes a matter temperament, or
						education, or both, and not of the understanding derived from evidence through the
						reason; and sometimes it is a matter of temnperament, 
						education, or both, in spite of the judgment, understanding, and reason. Even our
						desires, or wishes, sometimes decide our belief or unbelief.
					SEC. 22. There is no element in human nature more certain and
						uniform than the moral sense. As to the rule of action, when the facts are simple, their
						relations plain, and the effect certain, all men agree; when the facts are complex,
						their relations hidden, and the effect uncertain, they are liable to disagree. But when
						the facts, their relations, and effects, however complicated they may be, are
						understood, there is seldom any difference of opinion.
					SEC. 23. Man can judge of good or evil only by his own nature, and
						their relation to time and place. He knows well what they are to him on earth, but he
						can have no knowledge of infinite good or evil in their relation to eternity and the
						universe. Nothing shows the vanity of man so much as the belief that the universe was
						created solely for him, and that what does not please him is therefore evil.
					SEC. 24. The laws of nature punish us for our ignorance of them, as
						well as for our disobedience to them. The methods by which she instructs and corrects
						us, and the punishment she inflicts, are but the kind admonitions of a gentle
						mother.
					SEC. 25. Truth and virtue are to our moral being, what health and
						beauty are to the physical.
					SEC. 26. The understanding perceives the different ends of our
						conduct, morality chooses the right one, and action accomplishes the purpose. Deliberate
						slowly, execute quickly.
					SEC. 27. Virtue consists in knowing the right and the wrong, and
						willing and doing the right; vice consists  in knowing the
						right and the wrong, and willing. and doing the wrong. When we are right we stand upon a
						rock; it may be cold and desolate, but it is firm and enduring. When we are wrong we are
						treading on a quagmire where it requires constant effort to keep from sinking.
					SEC. 28. There is nothing in immorality to support it, while
						morality stands of its own strength. Whatever is immoral passes away, whatever is moral
						remains permanent.
					SEC. 29. There is no time, nor place, nor condition, in which he who
						does right is not braver, nobler, better, and happier than he who does wrong.
					SEC. 30. That there should be any thing new in human thought, or
						sentiment, after the experience of mankind to the present time, would be marvelous
						indeed. New words and phrases, and new relations of thoughts and sentiments, will always
						be found, but new thoughts and sentiments never. The innumerable brains that have
						thought, and hearts that have felt, since the creation of man, must have exhausted the
						entire capacity of his nature; and yet to each individual every thought, and every
						sentiment must be once new.
					SEC. 31. A perfect physical, intellectual, and moral man, would need
						no law as a rule of action. He would be so in harmony with nature that he would be a law
						unto himself.
					SEC. 32. The principles of right and wrong, and good and bad,
						existed before the mind which perceives them, or the will which chooses between them had
						any existence.
					SEC. 33. The beauty which the mind sees in the  fitness of things, and the satisfaction we feel in the performance of our
						duty, are the great pleasures of life.
					SEC. 34. We may as well suppose that the laws of phenomena in the
						physical world will produce chaos, as to fear that the moral laws of human nature will
						destroy man. These laws carry their own sanction and force, and are competent to their
						own ends.
					SEC. 35. The hours of life in which we suffer pain or enjoy pleasure
						are few, and perhaps about equal in number; during the great portion of our lives we
						feel neither pain nor pleasure, but simply the enjoyment of existence.
					SEC. 36. Truth, goodness and pleasure constitute the highest human
						happiness; but inasmuch as, to the imperfection of the human faculties, there can be no
						truth, goodness or pleasure without error, evil and pain--therefore, the greatest amount
						of truth with the least amount of error, the greatest amount of good with the least
						amount of evil, and the greatest amount of pleasure with the least amount of pain, make
						up the greatest amount of happiness with the least amount of unhappiness, to the
						individual man; and when applied to the greatest number of individuals constitute the
						greatest amount of happiness with the least amount of unhappiness, to the human race.
						This is the true philosophy of life, and the ighest condition of man.
					SEC. 37. Truth is an eternal entity. Right, wrong, good, bad, are
						not entities, but relations.
					SEC. 38. Man is born, he cries, he plays, he loves, he fights, he
						hoards, he prays, he weeps, he dies.  The earth is but a
						way-station where nations come and go.
					SEC. 39. Man must earn his pleasures, as he should his bread, if he
						would enjoy them. There is no royal road to pleasure, though pleasure seems so royal.
						Man is not capable of the highest happiness until he has gained it through
						suffering.
					SEC. 40. Man should kill no living thing, neither beast nor insect,
						without a reason for the act.
					SEC. 41. Man is ennobled by performing great and good deeds, and
						degraded by performing trivial or bad actions. He may do little innocent things, but we
						do not expect to see a Samson spinning a top nor a Solomon dancing a jig.
					SEC. 42. The true man never asks of another what he would not
						himself grant to another under like circumstances; and he never proposes to another what
						he would not accept from another under like circumstances.
					SEC. 43. Courage is not the stealthy spring of a tiger on his
						victim, nor the stupid daring of a bull that presents his horn to whatever comes in his
						way, nor the desperation which a coward sometimes displays when he can not flee ; it is
						that power in man which sees and knows danger, yet encounters it for a noble purpose--of
						one who would sacrifice the body rather than degrade the soul.
					SEC. 44. The self-made man is too often despised by the scholar, professional
						man, artist, or mechanic; yet from self-made men come originality, invention, and vigor
						of imagination. In making himself he shows the active power of making, not merely the
						passive power of being made.




					
					SEC. 45. Man was not made to fly nor to creep, but to walk
						upright.
					SEC. 46. Every man and every woman should remember that all men and
						women are brothers and sisters in a common humanity, and that they can neither rise
						above nor sink below that universal relation. All should look up to Heaven, that they
						may understand the earth.
					SEC. 47. A strong brain and a weak heart make an inefficient but
						amiable character; a strong heart and a weak brain make a forcible but uncertain
						character; a strong brain and a strong heart make a great and reliable character.
					SEC. 48. How many men, even of eminence, live out their lives
						without even rising into the higher regions of thought, and without enjoying the deep
						and rich emotions of our common nature, or ever dreaming of the pure sentiments and
						far-reaching, aspirations of the undying soul.
					SEC. 49. Men are often praised after they are dead for what they
						were blamed while living; and often praised while living for what the charity of silence
						should cover when they are dead.
					SEC. 50. The naked, ugly truth is more pleasing than the most
						beautifully adorned lie.
					SEC. 51. A man will often confess a crime rather than own a
						weakness; and would always rather be called a blackguard than a blockhead.
					SEC. 52. Man begins by seeking money to obtain pleasure, and ends by
						finding pleasure in seeking money. He may thus make wealth, but wealth can never make
						the man.
					SEC. 53. The man with boasting on his lip, seldom  has courage in his heart. The silent man is brave. One man
						with hope is stronger than two men with fear.
					SEC. 54. For thy breath and thy bread be dependant on none but
						thyself and thy God.
					SEC. 55. In our mental progress we outgrow states of mind and
						abandon them, as in our physical development we outgrow various fashions and cast them
						off. The thoughts of youth no more become mature age than the clothing of the boy would
						suit the man.
					SEC. 56. We may grow so used to being surprised that a surprise will
						no longer surprise us.
					SEC. 57. Human laws exact the legal rights and duties between the
						state and citizen, and between man and man, and enforce obedience. Religion teaches the
						relations and duties of man to God, but has no earthly power to enforce its decrees.
						Morals teach the rights and duties between man and man, and merely persuade to
						obedience, for laws do not enforce either religious or moral obligations, but protect
						both, and leave them to their own sanction.
					SEC. 58. There seems to be as firm and broad a basis in our nature,
						on which to found moral societies, with their professors, to teach and practice morals,
						as there is to found churches, with their priesthood, to teach and practice religion;
						and indeed more broad and firm, for morals rest upon the understanding and sentiments,
						which are mainly the same throughout the human race, while religion rests solely on
						faith which is continually fluctuating and shifting its ground. The world essentially
						agrees in morals, in religion it is divided into many hundreds of creeds.
					SEC. 59. When men pretend to teach to others, for  profit, not only what they do not know themselves, but what
						can not be known to man, they are not better than knaves and mountebanks.
					SEC. 60. The path of virtue lies up a steep precipice; the ascent is
						rugged and difficult, but the farther and longer we pursue it the more elevated we
						become. At the base lies the pit of vice; how easy the descent.
					SEC. 61. To a pure mind and sensitive heart an infringement of truth
						or virtue is as painful as the lash to the body.
					SEC. 62. It is as impossible to build up a permanent and systematic
						human character without truth, justice, and morality, as to erect a column, and make it
						stand while its line of gravitation falls outside of its base.
					SEC. 63. Man's love is made up of emotion, passion, and appetite.
						Emotion is that sweet sensation we feel towards a beloved object when we are completely
						satisfied, and is unaccompanied with desire. It is love's fulfillment in the soul.
						Passion is livelier than emotion, and is accompanied with the desire of the heart to do
						some agreeable or pleasing act. It ends not with the act done, but is a continued and
						sustained devotion to the object beloved. It is the heart's longing to fulfill itself
						through the affections. Appetite is much stronger than passion, and drives blindly to
						its purpose. When gratified it ceases entirely for a time, but, like other appetites,
						returns again at periods. It has its seat in the wants of our physical nature, and, by
						itself, has no more sense of right or wrong than has hunger or thirst. The sexual desire
						is generally called a passion, but when unaccompanied with emotion to the object beloved
						it is  simply an appetite. It is this element that
						sometimes makes man's love unfaithful or impure. Appetite is vague, uneasy, wandering;
						passion is steady, faithful, devoted. Emotion is satisfied repose. Thus our affections
						have their basis in appetite, which rises into passion, and fulfills itself in emotion.
						These powers, balanced and blended, chastened and regulated, constitute that full and
						delicious satisfaction of our entire nature--the agreement of minds, the sweet harmony
						of hearts, and rich repose of the soul--and are all expressed in that most precious
						word--Love !
					SEC. 64. Woman's love consists of emotion and passion, and is
						without appetite; hence it is purer and more faithful than man's. In the latter respect,
						woman is the positive which attracts man, and man the negative which is attracted by
						woman; but in the sexual act the man becomes the positive and woman the negative. Her
						love is a regular and sustained passion, desiring continually to do good to the object
						beloved, and finds its complete fulfillment and satisfaction in the deep and undisturbed
						feeling of contented emotion known as love.
					SEC. 65. If a man loves a woman who does not love him, she is in no
						danger, for he is not likely to offer her wrong, and if he should she will be able to
						resist his most passionate appeals. If a woman loves a man who does not love her,
						opportunity will be very likely to invite dangerous importunity. The man she despises is
						easily repulsed; the man she loves is hard to be resisted. A woman never falls by a
						man's love for her, but through her love for him. When the love is mutual, there is but
						little danger, for although love may increase passion and awaken appetite in such  case, yet it places itself under the guardianship of
						principle. It is also repressed by modesty, and is always respectful to its object.
						Between persons who are virtuous and indifferent to each other, there is no danger.
						Those, who have neither virtue in themselves, nor love for one another, will be governed
						by the opportunity and passions of the moment. Such no maxims will guide and no reasons
						restrain.
					SEC. 66. A man's heart follows his passion, a woman's passion
						follows her heart.
					SEC. 67. A man will endeavor to convince you, a woman to
						persuade.
					SEC. 68. Woman neutralizes the restlessness in man, receiving his
						love which soothes her, and imparting her own, which satisfies him.
					SEC. 69. The sexual passion hushes, for the time, all the
						whisperings of the moral sense; for sex is the method of nature to perpetuate her
						species, and she has so contrived it that it does not fail, whatever may be the
						conventional notions of men. Nature knows no sin.
					SEC. 70. Love never follows wisdom, but wisdom sometimes follows
						love. It often makes a man a fool, but seldom makes him wise.
					SEC. 71. A woman conceals her love and shows her hatred; a man will
						hide his hatred and babble of his love.
					SEC. 72. Whenever the head and heart go to war about love, the heart
						is sure to win the battle.
					SEC. 73. Love may be quiet, but he is always busy; and he may singe
						his wings as well as freeze them; but none need to go to Ovid to learn the art  of love--the great teacher is in his heart. True love never
						learns his lesson from an interest table.
					SEC. 74. It is difficult to gather up wasted affections and make the
						heart whole.
					SEC. 75. It is weak love that can not conquer pride.
					SEC. 76. Lovers seldom show all the book of their hearts to one
						another; they generally let them see only the fairest pages and the prettiest
						pictures.
					SEC. 77. If beauty loses its enchantment by familiarity, so also
						does deformity lose its ugliness. Beauty makes a good bait but a poor hook. It should be
						made the ornament of the true, and the allurement to the good.
					SEC. 78. A blush is alike the pledge of modesty and the test of
						shame.
					S rend="sc"EC. 79. Love is the silent harmony of hearts, the soul's still
						music.
					SEC. 80. Women, like flowers, are ever decoying us from the main
						path of life. Love makes our sunshine and our shade.
					SEC. 81. It is the best spirit that shows its strength and the
						crushed heart that breathes its sweetness.
					SEC. 82. While we chide we love.
					SEC. 83. The best hearts, like the finest wares, are easiest
						broken.
					SEC. 84. We can not always command love with merit, but we sometimes
						lose love for the want of merit.
					SEC. 85. It is better to want the joys of love than to have them to
						satiety.
					SEC. 86. Friendship is the soul's passion; love,  the heart's; we can bestow the former on thousands, the
						latter on but one.
					SEC. 87. Love is like paper money--an admirable medium of exchange
						while its credit ,is good--but when it comes to redeem its promises it frequently
						fails.
					SEC. 88. The wine of the heart during courtship is in a state of
						fermentation ; in matrimnony it works itself clear.
					SEC. 89. The heart has its reasons which the head knows not of. It
						must be warmed before it can be molded.
					SEC. 90. Whenever it becomes necessary to assert power then love is
						gone.
					SEC. 91. Cupid will never cease to shoot his arrows until death
						shall break his bow.
					SEC. 92. Our noblest loves are late in life, when the passions of
						youth, purified, and the wisdom of manhood, ripened, are blended in one feeling. Young
						love is a comet--fiery and eccentric; mature love is a star--steady and beaming. In
						youth a man loves the woman, in middle life, a
						woman, in old age--woman.
					SEC. 93. When we die many will speak of our death, a few will
						remember us, one or two will weep for us, but their tears will soon dry, and then our
						unremembered dust will sleep in peace forever.
					SEC. 94. When the tide shall cease to ebb and flow, then shall human
						bosoms be at rest; when the showers shall fall no more, then our tears shall cease to
						flow.
					SEC. 95. Sad thoughts are sweet. There is something in the memory of
						grief which we would not willingly forget. Hope never gets behind us.


					

					SEC. 96. The heart removed from its associations, like the flower
						transplanted from its native soil, wilts for a time; but sometimes grows more
						luxuriantly for the removal, and shows a greater beauty.
					SEC. 97. Mirth and melancholy, gayety and grief, are often twin-born
						from the same heart; and a sensitive bosom is apt to be either a heaven of love or a
						hell of hatred.
					SEC. 98. Sometimes a fly's bill will disturb us, when the dart of
						death would make us composed.
					SEC. 99. Be not discouraged when the soul is weary; the eagle can
						not always sustain his wing; and when he stoops to rest it is but to gain strength for a
						higher flight.
					SEC. 100. Look at your pleasures through a telescope, reverse the
						glass when you view your cares.
					SEC. 101. Fortune or misfortune may be alike to many; but how this is borne or
						that enjoyed, will depend very much upon the character of the individual.
					SEC. 102. There is a great deal of unhappiness in the happiest
						happiness, and some happiness even in the unhappiest unhappiness.
					SEC. 103. Our enemies can injure us somewhat, but they can not
						destroy the earth from beneath us, nor take away the sky from above us, nor dethrone
						God; and with these left we never need be unhappy; yet one enemy can give us more pain
						than a thousand friends can bring us joy. But when we give to our friend what belongs to
						our enemy, we injure our friend more than we do our enemy, and injure ourselves the most
						of all. It is better to suffer the wrong than do the wrong.
					SEC. 104. He never knew bread who never was  hungry; he never knew rest who never was weary; he never knew pleasure who
						never knew pain; he never knew joy who never knew sorrow.
					SEC. 105. The joy is but moderate in obtaining that, the loss of
						which, would grieve us deeply.
					SEC. 106. A man seldom has good sense, or a good temper, about his
						loves or his victuals.
					SEC. 107. Misery is the child of error and vice, happiness the
						first-born of virtue and truth; but fear and superstition beget monstrous children.
					SEC. 108. Poor human nature, in all its aspirations, its wanderings
						and weaknesses, has nothing to rest upon at last but the bosom of God. Nature thrusts us
						forth, we play upon her ample breast a few fantastic tricks before high Heaven, and then
						creep back again to rest.
					SEC. 109. There is many a bitter joy, and some sweet sorrows; and
						our past pleasures sometimes double our present woes.
					SEC. 110. Man is often selfish in his unselfishness, and sometimes
						hates even in his loves. He declares that every thing in this world is evil because the
						universe will not adjust itself to his comfort, convenience and happiness.
					SEC. 111. A man without passions is a ship without sails. With
						passions to move, reason to direct, and truth as his object, man attains the greatest
						ends of life and the highest elevation of his nature.
					SEC. 112. A passion for an immediate and attainable object never
						reflects; a passion for a remote or unattainable object begets reflection. Passion
						desires to seek its object, emotion is satisfied with repose. 


					

					SEC. 113. Every man has a tiger in heart, that if once fully
						aroused, would destroy his prey or kill his keeper. He is a beautiful beast when
						managed, but terrible if let loose. His cage should be examined daily. Whoever unkennels
						his passions will be torn to pieces by the pack.
					SEC. 114. How many would willingly give up their pleasures to be
						relieved from their pain; yet pain protects the body, instructs the mind, chastens the
						heart, and purifies the soul. It is the great educator and preserver of our being; our
						"guide, philosopher, and friend."
					SEC. 115. A man's character is better indicated by his tastes and
						amusements than by his more serious pursuits or his regular employment. He chooses the
						former, the latter is often chosen for him or thrust upon him by necessity.
					SEC. 116. Feeling and sentiment can not be expressed in language.
						They may be indicated by actions, looks, tears, smiles; language can only express the
						words which represent their meaning.
					SEC. 117. Every rose has its thorn, but every thorn has not its
						rose.
					SEC. 118. Our condition during the greater part of our existence is
						neither that of pain nor pleasure, but of a negation between the two; and happy is he
						who can hold the balance truly, and happier still is he who can keep it from dipping
						down to pain, but incline it still to pleasure.
					SEC. 119. Some people are ashamed of nothing but being ashamed.
					SEC. 120. We often show what we most conceal. and none are so blind
						as those who see what is not.


					

					SEC. 121. Ambition is the itch of little minds, yet ambition has
						made a hero of many a man when governed by virtue, or a great criminal when governed by
						vice, as love has made a martyr or a criminal of many of woman.
					SEC. 122. Trouble to a good heart is like fermentation to the juice
						of the grape--it works clear and leaves nothing but the pure wine.
					SEC. 123. Although the conduct of others may injure us deeply, yet
						we never can be permanently unhappy except as a consequence of our own actions or a want
						of action.
					SEC. 124. He is the happiest man who, following those pursuits which
						enlarge the mind, expand the heart, and elevate the soul, partakes most of the world's
						honors, and escapes most of its stripes; and who, living in harmony with the laws of
						life and true interests of society, can look upon the vices of men without malice, and
						on their virtues without envy.
					SEC. 125. Although we can not reach the perfectly true, nor the
						entirely good, nor the completely beautiful, yet we may attain to much that is true,
						excellent, and beautiful in a very high degree.
					SEC. 126. Since nature has produced abundance of sweet fruit for
						man, he ought not to choose the bitter; and seeing that she has strewn his path with
						flowers, it is folly to select the thorns.
					SEC. 127. Even in solitude we have the society of our own thoughts,
						of beautiful ideas, of sweet memories, of the great dead, and of God.
					SEC. 128. Love your kindred more than yourself; love your country
						more than your kindred; love mankind  more than your
						country; and love God more than all.
					SEC. 129. Never have contempt for any thing except for contempt
						itself.
					SEC. 130. He who is indifferent to praise is indifferent to blame;
						and he who hopes nothing fears nothing.
					SEC. 131. It matters little to the world whether we are upon its
						bosom, or beneath its surface.
					SEC. 132. Those who are all things to all men are nothing to any
						man.
					SEC. 133. If I was made to see with other people's eyes, to hear
						with other people's ears, or think with other people's brains, then my eyes, and ears,
						and brains, would have belonged to other people's heads; but as they belong to my own
						head I infer they were made for my use. If they were given to me to see, hear, and
						think, it must be right for me to see, hear, and think; and if it is right for me to
						see, hear, and think, it must be right for me to understand, judge, believe, and know;
						and it must be that I am responsible for their right use.
					SEC. 134. It is the common sense of the human mind, and the plain
						morality of the human heart, in great masses of men, through a long period of time,
						which at last regulate the world's affairs. They check the daring hero, control the
						ambitious statesman, regulate a venal church, render science practical, and are the
						ultimate tribunal which decides the questions of even literature and art.
					SEC. 135. We are afflicted more by the death of one in our midst
						than by the slaughter of thousands far away.




					

					SEC. 136. The body knows no shame--it is the soul that blushes.
					SEC. 137. Man is free only within certain limits. Necessity is
						before him and behind. Before his birth and after his death he is the same; but he must
						be born, he must die. Over these events he has no control, but as to how he shall live,
						it is relatively in his power to decide.
					SEC. 138. The pilot can not steer his ship without the pressure of
						the waves upon the rudder, the bird could not fly but for the resistance of the air
						against his wings; thus we often seem to be retarded by what helps us on.
					SEC. 139. There are very few who can see truth in its pure light,
						and not tint it or stain it with some wish, motive, affection, passion, or interest.
					SEC. 140. The foot bears the burden of the body; it should not be
						forgotten by the head.
					SEC. 141. Weak men, proud women, and base cowards, always abuse
						their power.
					SEC. 142. People become famous more frequently by accident than by
						merit, but a reputation can he sustained only by worth.
					SEC. 143. When men become as wise as serpents they are too apt to
						lose the harmlessness of doves. The serpent of wisdom may destroy the dove of innocence. 
					SEC. 144. Most men perceive the profit of honesty; but few
						appreciate its moral beauty.
					SEC. 145. The old should remember that they once were young, and the
						young should reflect that they may become old.
					SEC. 146. The old should always remember that  they were once young, and the young should always consider that they never
						were old.
					SEC. 147. Man pursues beauty, pleasure, glory; and last, and
						meanest, money.
					SEC. 148. But few can be great, all may be good.
					SEC. 149. Let your path of life lie too high for the viper's sting,
						and be too firm for falsehood's wrath.
					SEC. 150. The noble woman can bear any injury except that of
						inflicting an injury.
					SEC. 151. Some are always looking into the past; others to the
						future, to find the good, the beautiful, and the true; and although truth, goodness, an
						beauty, are continually present, they perceive them not, because they are so near.
					SEC. 152. It is as unjust for the strong-minded and educated to take
						advantage of the weak-minded and ignorant, as it is for the strong bodied and well-armed
						to inflict personal injury on the weak and defenseless.
					SEC. 153. Some of the poorest, meanest, and lowest elements of human
						nature are developed by social distinctions, and not one of the best, noblest, and
						highest.
					SEC. 154. Most ladies would regard the ability to embroider as an
						accomplishment, while they would look down on a woman who obtained her living by that
						elegant art; and occasionally there is a fine lady who would not regard an amateur amour
						greatly amiss, but would spurn the poor sister woman who wrong had betrayed, or
						misfortune had driven to t same act.
					SEC. 155. The capacity of woman's nature is at once so good and so
						bad, that she can perform deeds  which angels would
						approve, and in the same day do acts which would make devils rejoice.
					SEC. 156. There are persons so sentimental and sympathetic that they
						can not see tears without weeping, nor hear sighs without grieving; yet they do not care
						who weeps if they do not see their tears, nor who grieves if they hear not their
						sighs.
					SEC. 157. We rush up the hill of life in youth, and in age hobble
						down its rough declivities.
					SEC. 158. Women sometimes sell themselves to men as wives, as the
						wicked sell themselves to the Devil--that they may have more power to do mischief. 
					SEC. 159. The moral sense of mankind will ultimately silence the
						heaviest artillery.
					SEC. 160. How many desire to win hearts--as children long for
						toys--simply to break them.
					SEC. 161. The cheeks are the leaves of the heart, and soon fade when
						the bud is blighted.
					SEC. 162. Those who are always looking for pebbles never see the
						stars.
					SEC. 163. A man may be made rich in a moment, but there is no
						instantaneous method by which he can so speedily be made either learned, wise, or
						good.
					SEC. 164. Our passions are as useful in our moral nature, as
						chemical affinities are in the natural world.
					SEC. 165. Give us truth and goodness, but give us beauty also. If we
						must labor let us have rest. If we must have sorrow let us have joy. Chastened mirth and
						virtuous humor are the sweeteners of life. The best, wisest, truest, and purest, are
						always the happiest.
					SEC. 166. Food for the body is soon consumed, but  food for the mind sustains us through life. As our bodies
						have an appetite which only food can supply, so have our hearts a want which only love
						can feed, and our souls a hope which only Heaven can satisfy. SEC.
						167. While you are young associate with those who are older than yourself; when you are
						old, with those who are younger, and always with those who are wiser and better.
					SEC. 168. It is far easier to turn a friend into a foe, than to turn
						a foe into a friend; and to make us love our friends, we should sometimes be exposed to
						our foes.
					SEC. 169. Women conceal their sorrows, but not their joys; men
						conceal their joys, but not their sorrows. 
					SEC. 170. The more we give up to our sorrows, the sooner they are
						relieved, as with the more eagerness we pursue our pleasures, the sooner they cloy; and
						by remembering our joys, we are enabled to forget our griefs.
					SEC. 171. Those who are burnished in adversity never lose their
						luster.
					SEC. 172. He who performs his duty under a sense of obligation, is a
						true man; he who performs duty because he loves it, is a good man; he who performs his
						duty because he fears the punishment of disobedience, is a bad man.
					SEC. 173. The perfect man is he who has all faculties of his nature
						developed to their full capacity, and none beyond their fair proportion.
					SEC. 174. When we see the faults of others, we should be silent;
						when we see our own, we should correct them.

					
					SEC. 175. Always defend yourself, but never revenge yourself; and
						never be ungrateful.
					SEC. 176. A great soul studying great truths, doing great deeds, and
						loving all things, is a sublime contemplation. 
					SEC. 177. The strength of a man's passion is his weakness; the
						weakness of a woman's passion is her strength.
					SEC. 178. The human nature of children is natural; the human nature
						of adults is conventional; indeed, civilization is nothing more than conventional
						humanity; and in the nineteenth century is under a forced march.
					SEC. 179. We climb the sunny side of the hill of life, and descend
						in its shade. In youth, all live on hope; in age, repose on memory.
					SEC. 180. As we are growing old, it is better to gradually withdraw
						from the active scenes of life than to be suddenly pushed away, which must inevitably:
						be the case if we linger too long. Let us, then, quietly slip away from the world, and
						not allow it to slip away from us; and go gracefully before we are hissed off.
					SEC. 181. Those who have felt the frosts of seventy winters should
						remember that they have also plucked the flowers of seventy summers.
					SEC. 182. Let us learn the lesson of life before we are compelled to
						learn the lesson of death; and when the lesson of life is well learned, then the lesson
						of eath is easy.
					SEC. 183. The aged body has little else to do than eat up the cold
						victuals of life, wear out its old  clothes, and then go
						to its cold bed--the grave; yet nature kindly prepares it for all its stages.
					SEC. 184. The hopes of youth become the memories of age; and that
						our memories may be sweet our hopes must be pure.
					SEC. 185. The body of man is weak. It is an easy thing to bruise it,
						to bury a knife in it, or perforate it with a bullet; yet there is something in that
						body beyond the reach of brutal fists, the assassin's knife, or the coward's
						pistol--something above all earthly power.
					SEC. 186. We dread old age, yet hope to attain it.
					SEC. 187. Our bodies come up out of the earth, our souls come down
						from Heaven.
					SEC. 188. Time's graver is ever furrowing our cheeks, and marking
						our heads. His fingers are softly bearing away our locks, and such as he leaves he
						sprinkles with snow to mark them as his own.
					SEC. 189. What differ now the remains of Moses, Plato, Caesar, Cato,
						Shakespeare, Newton, Washington, Napoleon, from any other half a bushel of dust?
					SEC. 190. Death at the end of life is as natural as sleep at the
						close of the day.
					SEC. 191. The turf above our graves will outlast the marble that
						marks the place, and the grass there will be green long after the monument has mouldered
						away.
					SEC. 192. Death is the great debt that all must pay, sooner or
						later; the most we can do is to get the time extended by paying the interest, and often
						then at a very heavy rate.
					SEC. 193. Our dust is just as useful to the universe in something
						else, after we are dead, as it is in our  bodies while we
						are alive; and will be just as much in the care of the Deity.
					SEC. 194. Death can not be wrong, or it never would have been a part
						of nature's economy.
					SEC. 195. After we die we are remembered while those who loved us
						survive, and until those who hated us are also laid in the grave; then, if there is any
						thing left of us known to those who neither loved nor hated us, and to whom we were
						unknown, it will remain; if not we are forgotten of men and remembered only of God.
					SEC. 196. Goodness without knowledge may make us happy, knowledge
						without goodness will make us unhappy, knowledge with goodness makes us blest.
					SEC. 197. That is very bad which could not be made worse, and that
						is very good which could not be made better.
					SEC. 198. The good and bad of the human heart are like the concords
						and discords of the harp; the skillful player on either touches only the harmonies.
					SEC. 199. A good that we but seldom have seems greater than it is, a
						good that we always have seems much less.
					SEC. 200. When we gain a pleasure by an evil, the pleasure soon dies
						and the evil remains as our punishment; when we obtain a good by a pain, the pain soon
						ceases, and the good remains as our reward.
					SEC. 201. To the vicious heart revenge is sweet, but its sweetness
						soon passes away, and like all other immoral acts, it leaves an enduring bitterness
						behind.
					SEC. 202. A bad heart seeks the bad that is in the good, a good
						heart seeks the good that is in the bad. The one makes the worst of things, the other
						the best.

					

					SEC. 203. The human heart is the common seat of that sense which
						distinguishes between right and wrong, good and evil, beauty and ugliness. It may be
						made the home of love or the den of hatred--in short, of all that is good or bad. It may
						be turned into a kennel of passions, a nest of vipers, or a cage of vultures, and torn
						to pieces in agony, as if by the teeth, talons, and stings of beasts and serpents, and
						birds of prey.
					SEC. 204. The wrongs which others do unto us may be forgiven and
						healed, but the wrongs which we do unto others will be an eternal source of pain.
					SEC. 205. All mankind agree as to what is clearly virtuous, or
						clearly vicious, or entirely indifferent, as to morals; but, there being so much of
						human conduct which approximates the one or the other, that mankind do not, as to this,
						agree as to what is good or what is bad.
					SEC. 206. If our life is virtuous, though brief in years, it shall
						be long in happiness, for we may live over the past in memory with pleasure, and look to
						the future in peace. But if our life is vicious, though it be fourscore years, it shall
						be short, as we have but the present moment, for we can not look to the past with
						pleasure, nor to the future with hope.
					SEC. 207. True virtue is conformity to the wants of the soul; and
						her tranquil path is far sweeter than the uneasy road of vice.
					SEC. 208. The dominion of things external to man, which is often
						gained by vice and lost by virtue, should never be the sign of worth.
					SEC. 209. Where virtue is, there is surely happiness, and where vice
						is, there is surely misery.

					
					SEC. 210. Firmness is a great virtue when guided by wisdom, but a
						great vice when governed by ignorance. 
					SEC. 211. Vice and deformity are discords in nature; virtue and
						beauty are harmonies.
					SEC. 212. The adversity of the good soon passes away; their virtues
						remain forever. Their faults are written in water, their virtues are engraved in marble. 
					SEC. 213. Vice often gains a temporary advantage over virtue,
						because the profits of vice are paid before its penalties are suffered, while the trials
						of virtue must be endured before its rewards are bestowed; but the penalties of vice are
						no less inevitable than the rewards of virtue are sure, and while virtue is receiving
						its rewards vice will be suffering its penalties.
					SEC. 214. A small stain on virtue becomes conspicuous, while an
						immense blotch on vice will hardly be observed.
					SEC. 215. To the virtuous, memory is the sweetest blessing; to the
						vicious, the bitterest curse.
					SEC. 216. A slight fault of the virtuous gives them great pain,
						while the vicious will commit a crime without a pang.
					SEC. 217. Virtue should have majesty without austerity.
					SEC. 218. It is much easier to keep the path of virtue while in it,
						than to regain it after it is lost.
					SEC. 219. The body can not pass through life without bruises, nor
						the mind without errors, nor the heart without troubles, nor the soul without struggles;
						indeed, these are our great educators, without which we would be inert and useless.



					
					SEC. 220. The imprisonment of the mind in ignorance is an
						enslavement of the man as unfortunate as the imprisonment of the body in a dungeon.
					SEC. 221. Fashion wields a heavier scepter than a tyrant.
					SEC. 222. If I wished to possess power over men, I would have them
						fear me; if over women, I would have them love me.
					SEC. 223. The greater force will forever prevail against the lesser
						force. In nature the greater force is wisely applied to control the lesser force, and
						when men become wise, just, and good, they will apply the greater force in moral to
						subdue the lesser force, to the end of virtue, justice, happiness, and love.
					SEC. 224. When society brands that as improper which nature demands
						as necessary, it is not difficult to see which will prevail.
					SEC. 225. The virtuous and good of all nations and all ages belong
						to the same brotherhood. Truth and justice are not affected by systems, times, nor
						places; they stand independent and eternal. There is a right and wrong even in hell.
					SEC. 226. There is no elevation that can always keep us up to
						happiness, and no depression which can always keep us down to misery.
					SEC. 227. All men have enemies. If a man is a good man, the bad are
						his enemies; if he is a bad man, the good are his enemies.
					SEC. 228. It requires powerful passions and a great understanding,
						guided by moral rectitude, to make a great man.
					SEC. 229. Passions should beat in vain against the understanding, as
						waves against a shore of rock.


					
					SEC. 230. Obedience and service may be purchased, but the heart can
						neither be bought nor sold. SEC. 231. True courage lies in the
						soul--not in the arm.
					SEC. 232. How infinitely superior are the pleasures of the soul to
						those of sense; the one sickens and dies with satiety, the other can be satisfied only
						with immortality. 
					SEC. 233. How many sweet affections have been slaughtered to feed
						pride.
					SEC. 234. Adversity often calls out the beauties of the heart, as the night
						reveals the stars.
					SEC. 235. It is better to stand unsupported and alone with truth,
						than to be surrounded and upheld by millions in error.
					SEC. 236. What is wrong now may be right then, and what is right now
						may be wrong then; this is so of any thing which depends upon condition or relation. 
					SEC. 237. Passions may be as deep and strong as a mighty river, but
						they should be guided by reason and virtue, as the river is restrained by its banks.
					SEC. 238. Happiness consists in the harmonious exercise of all our
						faculties, with the rational enjoyment of all our wants. Whatever pleases the heart and
						satisfies the passions, and still is approved by the understanding and the soul, affords
						the greatest happiness. 
					SEC. 289. In viewing the soul--temporal and eternal --virtue stands
						to happiness, and vice to misery, in the inevitable relation of cause and effect.
					SEC. 240. Wrong is sometimes but imperfect right, and evil but
						imperfect good.




					

					SEC, 241. Earth is the battle-field of good and evil.
					SEC. 242. The body, to have health, must live in harmony with
						nature; the soul, to be happy, must live in harmony with virtue.
					SEC. 243. Viewed in all their relations, duty and interest are the
						same. 
					SEC. 244. The true and false affect all things; good and bad affect
						only sentient beings.
					SEC. 245. Every one naturally prefers the true to the false, the
						right to the wrong, the good to the bad, the beautiful to the ugly. The problem of life
						is to find the true, follow the right, do the good, and enjoy the beautiful, and, at the
						same time, avoid the false, the wrong, the bad, and the ugly.
					SEC. 246. It is a noble mind that can blame the faults of a friend,
						and praise the virtues of an enemy.
					SEC. 247. Truth is strength, goodness is happiness, beauty is
						pleasure; their union is the highest excellence. 
					SEC. 248. The virtues are strong and bold, the vices are weak and
						cowardly.
					SEC. 249. A pretended virtue is a positive vice.
					SEC. 250. It is better to do a good action with bad motive, than to
						do a bad action with a good motive; for the action may affect many, while the motive can
						influence but one.
					SEC. 251. Many of our apparently unselfish actions have their
						motives in the deepest selfishness.
					SEC. 252. Often little vices spring from great virtues, and
						sometimes little virtues spring from great vices.

					
					SEC. 253. Virtue is the only casket that can preserve the jewel of
						love.
					SEC. 254. Virtue is the shepherdess of love and matrimony the
						fold.
					SEC. 255. There is nothing more destructive to pleasure than
						pleasure itself.
					SEC. 256. As much pain as our troubles have given us, we would not
						willingly part with their memories.
					SEC. 257. Those who suppose that grief may be healed by a maxim, or
						love cured by a proverb, know but little of the human heart.
					SEC. 258. All pleasures which rest upon passion are irregular and
						short-lived; those which are built upon the understanding afford us delights which are
						uniform and enduring.
					SEC. 259. Joy has its griefs and grief its joys; love its miseries
						and ecstacies.
					SEC. 260. Small griefs call out tears, great ones dry them up.
					SEC. 261. Stabs can not be healed by kisses.
					SEC. 262. Our pleasures, as well as our troubles, sometimes come
						when we least expect them. Anticipated troubles lose half their force, and expected
						pleasures half their sweetness.
					SEC. 263. In our happiest moments there is apt to be something to
						annoy us, and in our saddest moments something to please.
					SEC. 264. There is no way by which we can secure our happiness
						permanently by any single act, but a single act, lasting but a moment, may make us
						miserable forever.
					SEC. 265. Our sweetest joys are too sacred to be  mentioned except in heaven, and there are vices too base to
						be whispered outside of hell.
					SEC. 266. Our pleasures seldom conduct us to peace.
					SEC. 267. The wrong may sometimes be sweet, but its pleasure is
						fleeting while its punishment is enduring; the right may sometimes be painful, but the
						pain soon passes away, while the reward it brings remains forever.
					SEC. 268. He who follows the pleasures of sense must give up his
						peace of soul.
					SEC. 269. We can not deserve punishment without dreading it, and the
						dread is a part of the punishment itself, even though it may never be inflicted.
					SEC. 270. The rod that punishes us may bear good fruit, but we can
						seldom see the flowers.
					SEC. 271. How oft the laurel on a brow conceals the agony
						within.
					SEC. 272. We never see the rainbow without the storm.
					SEC. 273. The rose-bush has many thorns to one flower; the thorns
						remain, the flowers seldom bloom and quickly pass away.
					SEC. 274. When the heart is happy the lips blossom into smiles; but
						even the broken heart has something still to cling to.
					SEC. 275. Life's cup is full of sweet and bitter; how hard to taste
						the sweet without also tasting the bitter!
					SEC. 276. We are apt to prattle of our lightest troubles and little
						pleasures, but the heart naturally conceals its sweetest joy and bitterest grief.


					

					SEC. 277. One painful truth is worth one hundred pleasing lies.
					SEC. 278. All the world can not make us happy, while a very trifle
						may sometimes make us miserable. 
					SEC. 279. The pleasures we possess soon pall on the senses.
						Successful ambition soon ceases to be valued, and gratified malice brings nothing but
						misery. There is no happiness without goodness, no greatness without virtue.
					SEC. 280. A small sorrow makes us babble; a great one strikes us
						dumb.
					SEC. 281. The unkindness of a friend wounds the heart deeper than
						the hatred of many enemies.
					SEC. 282. Hatred injures the soul that hates far more than the
						object hated.
					SEC. 283. Words go deeper than a dagger--they wound the soul.
					SEC. 284. The heart may feed upon a dainty sorrow so long that it
						becomes sweet food.
					SEC. 285. None are completely happy; the only difference in the
						degrees of happiness is that some are less unhappy than others.
					SEC. 286. We are sometimes made unhappy by foolish fears, and
						sometimes made happy by empty hopes.
					SEC. 287. How pleasing to look from the castle of truth upon the
						conflicts of error.
					SEC. 288. Cowardice is the invariable attendant of cunning. There
						may be cowardice without cunning, but cunning without cowardice--never.
					SEC. 289. There is nothing so much to be feared as one's own
						fears.


					

					SEC. 290. Treachery will burn incense before its victim, then cast
						the fire upon his head.
					SEC. 291. A reptile may creep up to an eagle's nest.
					SEC. 292. Hatred is chronic anger.
					SEC. 293. Every pain has its compensation, and every pleasure its
						penalty.
					SEC. 294. We should not struggle against the impossible, as the poor
						bird beats its wings against the walls of its cage, but accept the inevitable.
					SEC. 295. The revenge of an injury does us more injury than the
						injury which we revenge. No revenge is the noblest revenge.
					SEC. 296. True courage never boasts of victory, nor repines in
						defeat.
					SEC. 297. Fear and hatred make even beauty disagreeable; hope and
						love make even deformity beautiful. 
					SEC. 298. Ingratitude is like the viper--the more it is warmed the
						more venomous becomes its sting.
					SEC. 299. Little accidents disturb us, great events steady us.
					SEC. 300. There is a fear that is not cowardice, and there is a
						courage which is but the shadow of fear.
					SEC. 301. The lion and the mouse are not antagonists; the eagle and
						the goose are not rivals; the star and the stone never collide.
					SEC. 302. To look only at the best side of man we might take him to
						be an angel, to look only at his worst side we would readily conclude that he was a
						devil.




					

					SEC. 303. A true spirit combines the gentleness of the dove with the
						daring of the eagle.
					SEC. 304. True friendship is still, deep, and changeless as the
						lake; false friendship is like the noisy, babbling, shallow brook, continually changing
						its place. True friendship is delicate, false friendship officious.
					SEC. 305. There is no friendship in this world equal to that which
						is professional or official. Who is so faithful to us as our lawyer? who so true as our
						physician? who so kind as our minister? and who so unswerving as our judge! And all this
						we have without merit, and can not forfeit even by crime. Our jailor feeds and protects
						us, and even our executioner sympathizes with us, and drops a tear over our fate.
					In our personal friendships we must render an equivalent in friendship or favor; in our
						business friendships we must possess integrity or merit, or maintain certain mutual
						interests. Without some of these conditions private friendships can not exist.
					And where else do we receive such friendship as we do at our inn? What home is there on
						earth wherein we are so secure, and find such peace? Where else are we the objects of so
						much attention and civility? At what other place can we so take our ease, and so indulge
						our peculiarities and whims? Where else are we so certain of happiness? Who that ever
						read them can forget the lines of Shenstone: 
							
								"Who e'er has traveled life's dull rounds,
								Where 'er his stages may have been,
								May sigh to think he still has found
								His warmest welcome at an inn I "
							
						


					

					SEC. 306. Confidence is the bread of friendship, but it can not long
						maintain the contest against interest. 
					SEC. 307. In conferring a favor let it be done in, such a manner as
						to remove all sense of obligation in the recipient.
					SEC. 308. It is easy to watch an enemy who stands before you, but
						how difficult to guard against the treachery of a friend who walks by your side, and how
						impossible to meet the dastard who marches up behind you.
					SEC. 309. Rather choose a true and kind friend, than a wise and
						witty one.
					SEC. 310. It is better to be the wronged one than the one who
						wrongs.
					SEC. 311. Selfishness often takes the appearance of unselfishness.
						It is often a higher gratification to bestow favors than to withhold them. To see others
						gratified at what we do for them, is often the highest. gratification to ourselves.
					SEC. 312. Treachery is a serpent, malice a hyena, and anger a
						tiger.
					SEC. 313. Our enemies are seldom as bad as we think they are; our
						friends are not often as good as we wish they were.
					SEC. 314. It is difficult to condemn his fault, and yet love the
						friend.
					SEC. 315. There are many true hearts, but they seldom find their
						mates.
					SEC. 316. It is better to give to enemies than beg from friends.
					SEC. 317. How easy to believe ill, and how hard to believe good, of
						those we hate; how hard to believe  ill, and how easy to
						believe good, of those we love.
					SEC. 318. Friendship and love, although the noblest passions of our
						nature, cost us more pain than hatred and enmity, which are the meanest.
					SEC. 319. To the maxim--speak nothing but good of the dead--should
						be added, speak nothing but truth of the living.
					SEC. 320. There is no human happiness on earth as sweet as the
						enjoyment of love--mental, moral, emotional, affectionate, passionate, pure love.
					SEC. 321. Love is cool in the brain, warm in the heart, and hot in
						the blood.
					SEC. 322. Love tempers our being, and warms the whole nest of
						affections.
					SEC. 323. No man was ever great who did not love woman, and yet the
						man in whom love is the strongest passion is weak.
					SEC. 324. There is no human emotion so pure and abiding as the love
						of a virtuous woman by an honorable man. Souls have a purer and more enduring love than
						that of flesh and blood.
					SEC. 325. There is no love in reason, nor reason in love; yet they
						should dwell in harmony.
					SEC. 326. Love is a sweet rose, but it has many a bitter thorn.
					SEC. 327. The summer flower outlasts a fickle love and upbraids it
						with inconstancy.
					SEC. 328. Love sweetens the bitter, and makes the sweet sweeter.
					SEC. 329. It is hard to shake love from the heart.
					SEC. 330. Doubtless the Greek sage was happy when he cried--"I have
						found it, I have found it;"  crowns have made kings happy;
						lords have been happy in their ostentation; heroes have been happy in their victories;
						philosophers have been happy in their wisdom; poets have been happy in their elevation;
						but there is no happiness so sweet, no ecstasy so full of joy to the human heart, as the
						gentle thrill of love.
					SEC. 331. A man who does not love all women, can love no woman.
					SEC. 332. A true love seeks the good of its object more than it
						seeks the object itself.
					SEC. 333. It is only the chaste heart that can enjoy refined
						love.
					SEC. 334. He who can love with his mind and think with his heart may
						be a happy man, but he never will be an ardent lover nor a wise sage.
					SEC. 335. Neither friendship nor love can be given or withheld, nor
						can either be bought or sold. Both must be spontaneous and voluntary, or they have no
						value.
					SEC. 336. Love will bear a thousand frowns for one sweet smile.
					SEC. 337. Men talk of their love; women feel their love, and are
						silent.
					SEC. 338. Love, like genius, must have knowledge to work with, or it
						can not show its full power.
					SEC. 339. There is too much blood in man's veins to be entirely pure
						in love affairs.
					SEC. 340. Disagreement with those we love is sweeter than agreement
						with those towards whom we are indifferent.
					SEC. 341. It has been said that some women lose their virtue and
						preserve their reputation, while others  lose their
						reputation and preserve their virtue. The same may be said of men with regard to honor.
						How many forfeit their honor and preserve their reputation, while others lose their
						reputation yet preserve their honor?
					SEC. 342. Honor, pride, and love are often opponents, and sometimes
						rivals.
					SEC. 343. Treat your enemies as though they were to become your
						friends, and treat your friends as though they were to become your enemies, is a maxim
						for the diplomatists in politics, not for men in social life.
					SEC. 344. Justice is the best friendship; truth the sweetest love.
						He who never is a friend deserves to never have a friend.
					SEC. 345. Logic corrects the mind; morality refines the heart; love
						elevates the soul.
					SEC. 346. There is nothing so above and beyond price, and so
						unpurchasable, as love. We give it without reward, and receive it without compensation.
						We do not gain it by worth nor lose it for want of merit. No favor can win it; no
						devotion can keep it. Love can not inspire nor hate destroy it. It comes, it goes; it
						stays, it flies; it is here, it is there; we have it, we have it not; it is, it is not;
						and--this is all we can say about it.
					SEC. 347. There is no hatred that has not in it a little tinge of
						love.
					SEC. 348. No one was ever reasoned into love nor reasoned out of
						it.
					SEC. 349. Love helps the lover more than the beloved one; hatred
						hurts the hater more than the hated one. 


					
					SEC. 350. Love, like the bee, carries a sting as well as his
						honey.
					SEC. 351. In imagination we may love angels, but we find nothing on
						earth so sweet to love as woman.
					SEC. 352. A woman should warm her lover with her beauty, and cool
						him with her virtue.
					SEC. 353. With all its uneasiness and pain, there is something
						pleasing in unsatisfied love.
					SEC. 354. Love may be too much like love to be love, for love is
						never like himself.
					SEC. 355. A woman often would rather make the man she loves unhappy
						with her pride, than to bless with her love.
					SEC. 356. Love not, and you will grieve not; hope not, and you will
						fear not; do nothing, and you will be nothing.
					SEC. 357. Caprice is allied to beauty to be the antidote to
						love.
					SEC. 358. There is no being to whom a man appears so weak, at times,
						as to the woman of his heart.
					No man can always be a hero to the woman he loves.
					SEC. 359. Modesty is the fence of love, and if broken down the
						flower is soon destroyed.
					SEC. 360. While duty, often miser-like, just pays its debts, love
						pours out its treasures like a prodigal.
					SEC. 361. The blush is the messenger of the heart which bears its
						story to the cheeks.
					SEC. 362. Beauty and chastity are a woman's brightest jewels;
						courage and genius a man's.
					SEC. 363. Affection is a deep well, passion is a rippling
						stream.
					SEC. 364. Chastity is sometimes nothing more than a question of
						anatomy and physiology.


					
					SEC. 365. We pass from youth to manhood through the fires of love,
						and whoever escapes the flame would be as great a curiosity as a Shadrach, Meshech, or
						Abednego.
					SEC. 366. The relief from disappointed love for man is ambition, for
						woman, devotion.
					SEC. 367. The ceremony of marriage without love is as base an action
						as the ceremony of love without marriage.
					SEC. 368. Husband and wife are like the sun and moon; he kindly
						imparts to her his light, which she modestly reflects back, claiming nothing but to be
						brighter from his luster.
					SEC. 369. It is sometimes difficult for husband and wife to make
						each other happy, but always very easy to make each other miserable.
					SEC. 370. If Hymen's chains are allowed to grow rusty, they may not
						be a match for Cupid's silken cords.
					SEC. 371. Women play off daily on their husbands little devices that
						would lose them instantly as lovers.
					SEC. 372. There are men who, in looking on women, are like children
						gazing at toys--not satisfied with either one but want them all. As long as there are
						two women on earth such a man can never give his heart wholly to one. He loves a woman, not the woman.
					SEC. 373. There are women who would rather be called beautiful than
						esteemed virtuous.
					SEC. 374. Love begins our life, avarice ends it, ambition fills up
						the middle.
					SEC. 375. A coquette is a woman who prostitutes her heart instead of
						her person, and her person is but too apt to follow her heart.


					

					SEC. 376. Illicit love may gratify passion, but it does not satisfy
						affection. Love is made up of passion and affection united. Passion has its source in
						the blood, and moves us to action; affection springs in the heart, and desires repose.
						Passion may lead to one object while affection belongs to another. Separated from
						affection, passion dies with gratification; affection, separated from passion, becomes
						languid or morbid. When passion and affection are united on the same. object they
						constitute true and pure love. From love flows the richest happiness, the fullest
						enjoyment, and the most exquisite delight known to human nature.
					SEC. 377. Love is a very Proteus. In the blood it is passion; in the
						heart, affection; in the mind, friendship; in the soul, religion. In its full beauty and
						perfection it is made up from all these sources, in due proportion, blended in one
						harmonious whole.
					SEC. 378. Flowers wither, beauty fades, friendship grows cold.
						Continual and eternal change is the order of the universe. Love does not stand an
						exception; yet love, as a principle, does not change--it only changes its objects.
					SEC. 379. Never do any thing contrary to the judgment of a wise
						understanding, nor offensive to the sentiments of a pure soul.
					SEC. 380. In morals implied promises should bind as strongly as
						written bonds or solemn oaths.
					SEC. 381. Honesty, without any moral or religious motive, has a
						commercial and business value far higher than any thing which can be gained by
						dishonesty. Honesty is the moral governor of life."
					SEC. 382. The silent eloquence of noble deeds far excels the
						elocution of the finest words.




					

					SEC. 383. The small rewards of honesty are worth more than millions
						of ill-gotten wealth.
					SEC. 384. All persons would do good--even to their enemies--if they
						but knew the luxury of doing good.
					SEC. 385. There is much moral fiction, and much immoral truth.
					SEC. 386. There is no solid place to stand outside of law, justice,
						right, and duty.
					SEC. 387. Good manners are the attendant shadows of good morals; yet
						refined manners may be made to conceal base morals.
					SEC. 388. Good manners are such attentions in the course of our
						conduct as maintain our liberty and preserve our feelings, without infringing the
						liberty or feelings of others.
					SEC. 389. People of culture and refinement frequently smile, but
						seldom laugh; those without culture or refinement often laugh, but seldom smile; yet a
						hearty laugher can not be a bad man.
					SEC. 390. The way to truth lies through error, the way to goodness
						through evil, the way to beauty through deformity, and the way to peace through
						trouble.
					SEC. 391. Truth alone, or error alone, is easily recognizable; but
						when they are commingled, as they so often are, it is difficult to separate the one from
						the other.
					SEC. 392. A bold lie, for a time, may outdo a modest truth; for
						truth often comes in whispers, while the lie is proclaimed aloud. Yet a lie is
						short-lived, while truth is eternal; and it is better to taste  the bitterness of truth than to drink the poisonous sweets of a million
						lies.
					SEC. 393. Truth finds no home in the bosom of the liar, and rests
						not upon his lips.
					SEC. 394. Truth is above courtesy.
					SEC. 395. Whatever is true is always right.
					SEC. 396. How sweet the memory of a good action; how bitter the
						recollection of a bad deed.
					SEC. 397. Around a good name how many cherished memories
						cluster.
					SEC. 398. The goodness of one Washington is worth the greatness of a
						thousand Caesars.
					SEC. 399. Though we are conscious that we can not perfectly attain
						to the good, the beautiful, and true, yet it is the highest duty and the greatest
						pleasure of man to pursue them through life.
					SEC. 400. It is easy to find bad motives for good actions. No action
						is so bad but that some good motive may be invented to excuse it, and none so good but
						that it may be attributed to a bad motive.
					SEC. 401. It is as vain to attempt to establish a good character
						without a moral basis, as to build a momument of marble on water.
					SEC. 402. Neither genius, nor inspiration, nor revelation can make a
						falsehood true; nor can dullness, or stupidity, or superstition ever make the truth a
						falsehood.
					SEC. 403. Genius without virtue loses its worth, and beauty without
						purity loses its charm.
					SEC. 404. The memory of a well-spent life is the best provision that
						can be made for old age.
					SEC. 405. There is something in the advantages of life, as youth, success,
						fortune, which is unsatisfactory;  and something in the
						disadvantages of life, as misfortune, adversity, old age, which reconciles us to their
						conditions.
					SEC. 406. As we would gather the fruits of life that we may be
						comfortable in our old age, so we should collect a store of wisdom that our old age may
						be happy.
					SEC. 407. If we have a little enemy, before showing our resentment
						we should reflect that there are nobler pursuits in life than crushing insects.
					SEC. 408. Every life should have a unity of purpose, like the drama;
						and though composed of many acts, all should point to one grand and noble end.
					SEC. 409. There is some trouble in the happiest life, and some
						happiness in the most troubled life.
					SEC. 410. There is nothing more unfortunate than a moody, melancholy
						old age; and nothing more ridiculous than a gay, frisky, foolish, one. There is no
						necessity for sadness, or peevishness, because we are old, but much demand for
						cheerfulness and good nature, and certainly there is nothing more unbecoming than a
						light and frivolous old age.
					SEC. 411. The flies will bite the prettiest doe in the forest, even
						though she -retire to the deepest shade.
					SEC. 412. Excellence is a crown against which mediocrity and
						inferiority will forever rebel.
					SEC. 413. Poverty makes us patient, wealth makes us imperious.
					SEC. 414. It is not good to be poor, but it is good to have been
						poor.
					SEC. 415. Philosophy is bullion, science is coin, wit a diamond.



					
					SEC. 416. The pride of ignorance and the ignorance of pride may
						generally be found together.
					SEC. 417. There is a great deal of fortune in the world that is very
						unfortunate, and a great deal of misfortune which is very fortunate.
					SEC. 418. Sometimes praise is censure, and sometimes censure is
						praise.
					SEC. 419. It is a bitter cup of life indeed that contains no sweet
						drop.
					SEC. 420. Beauty is seldom wise, and wit is seldom fortunate,
					SEC. 421. It is often better to have an increase of strength to
						advance, than a dimunition of the obstacle to overcome.
					SEC. 422. Some things are so delicate that it is difficult to
						explain them without being indelicate. In such affairs the truest delicacy is
						silence.
					SEC. 423. There is nothing so successful as success, nothing so
						happy as happiness, and nothing so loving as love.
					SEC. 424. Where there is a shadow there must be substance and
						light.
					SEC. 425. The bouquet that withers in an hour, however sweet, is a
						poor substitute for the eternal laurel.
					SEC. 426. Those who forget yesterday, care not for to-morrow.
					SEC. 427. The mind should never feed on a sweet falsehood to avoid a
						bitter truth.
					SEC. 428. Injuries may heal, yet they sometimes leave sore places in
						the memory, and always a cicatrice.

					
					SEC. 429. To gain for the purpose of giving is less selfish than to
						gain for the purpose of using, and either is better than to gain for the purpose of
						hoarding. 
					SEC. 430. Gratitude impresses itself upon the heart and remains
						awhile, but too often it is like the affectionate inscription on a tomb-stone; time
						gradually wears it out, until at length it entirely disappears.
					SEC. 431. Common minds can deal with common things; superior minds
						can reach the higher conceptions; only genius can attain the highest.
					SEC. 432. The greatest discord in music is the tone nearest the
						concord; it is often so in love and friendship.
					SEC. 433. It is the pruned vine that bears the fruit.
					SEC. 434. Love, as a principle, is as unchangeable as the law of
						chemical affinities. It seems changeable because the objects upon which it acts are
						continually changing.
					SEC. 435. The willow often survives the storm that prostrates the
						oak.
					SEC. 436. The innocent bird should build its nest so as to avoid
						alike the serpent that crawls upon the earth, and the eagle that prowls in the air.
					SEC. 437. Many a lovely flower bears poisonous fruit.
					SEC. 438. What appears to us as Wisdom at one time of life, seems as
						but foolishness at another.
					SEC. 439. Labor can not degrade beauty and intelligence; beauty and
						intelligence ennoble labor.
					SEC. 440. The crust that the world hardens around the breast should
						serve to protect the heart within.

					

					SEC. 441. Fame is thin stuff to live upon.
					SEC. 442. It is useless to tell the lamb to protect itself against
						the wolf.
					SEC. 443. Feed not hay to the lion, nor flesh to the horse.
					SEC. 444. To give even a penny when we have no more, is true
						charity.
					SEC. 445. As the soil to bring forth good fruit must be harrowed, so
						must the heart be tried before it will yield its best affections.
					SEC. 446. He who trusts all may be deceived, but he who trusts none
						deceives himself.
					SEC. 447. There should be always something yet to be known to engage
						the understanding, something to be done to keep us in action, and something to love to
						interest the heart--in these consist our happiness.
					SEC. 448. Some men are liberal in small things, that they may be
						mean in greater things, while others are continually mean in little things, that they
						may make a display in some great thing.
					SEC. 449. It is better to be known to the children of a nation than
						to be the favorite of kings.
					SEC. 450. It is a serious question whether the world has not been
						injured more by ignorant goodness than by learned villiany.
					SEC. 451. It is no worse to pour medical poison in the stomach than
						moral poison in the heart.
					SEC. 452. Honey may flow from the lips, while gall is in the
						heart.
					SEC. 453. In avoiding a small error we sometimes commit a greater
						one.
					SEC. 454. A noble act--a beautiful woman--a strain of music--an
						affecting sentiment--sublime scenery  --these, between
						which there is no resemblance, often touch the same chord in the human soul.
					SEC. 455. How happy we are in our childhood when the visible horizon
						bounds all our world; when our mother is all that is good, and our father all that is
						wise.
					SEC. 456. Guilt may be in the heart, while the gospel is on the
						tongue.
					SEC. 457. A simple flower on a grave is a more touching memento than
						a monument of marble.
					SEC. 458. Much of our happiness consists in searching after
						happiness. We chase happiness as a child chases a butterfly, and when we obtain it we
						are too apt to destroy it by soiling its wings.
					SEC. 459. To be wise in the world's estimation, we must think as the
						world thinks; to be truly wise, we should think as the world ought to think.
					SEC. 460. Think much without speaking, but never speak without
						thinking.
					SEC. 461. Every heart, however humble, has a little world of its
						own, which, however humble, is all the world to it.
					SEC. 462. He is fortunate whose fate and choice are one.
					SEC. 463. Some passions seem to come from the mind into the body,
						and others seem to come from the body into the mind. All passions have a reciprocal
						effect between the mind and body.
					SEC. 464. Many obtain reputation to few that deserve it; and
						thousands deserve it to one that obtains happiness with it.
					SEC. 465. Solitude and society, alternately, make each other
						pleasing.


					

					SEC. 466. Unregulated passion loves and hates with as little
						discretion as the child that hates the physician for giving it medicine to cure it, and
						loves the nurse for giving it the sugar plumbs which made it sick.
					SEC. 467. True charity makes those happy whom others neglect, and
						remembers those whom others forget.
					SEC. 468. Physical incongruities are unpleasant to the mind, as
						moral irregularities are offensive to the heart.
					SEC. 469. A perfectly pure character is hard to preserve. Upon white
						linen a small spot is a great blemish, while that which is already soiled will bear
						additional blotches without observation.
					SEC. 470. Money is artificial riches, mind is natural wealth; we
						should take care of the former that we may enjoy the latter.
					SEC. 471. It is as foolish to be always providing for the future to
						the neglect of the present, as it is to enjoy the present forgetful of the future.
					SEC. 472. Additions to wealth are sometimes deductions from
						happiness.
					SEC. 473. The accumulation of wealth, and the gratification of his
						appetites, are. what the average man seeks; he has but little notion of being generous
						with the one, or delicate with the other.
					SEC. 474. There are so many eminent examples before us of actors in
						the drama of life continuing their parts after the play for them is over--thus
						"lingering superfluous on the stage "--that we should be admonished to make our bow and
						take our leave before we are hissed off.

					
					SEC. 475. It is better to understand what lies within the compass of
						human knowledge than to trouble ourselves about what lies beyond.
					SEC. 476. It is better that a man be free in his actions, though he
						may sometimes err, than to be compelled to obey another, though he may be far wiser, and
						always right.
					SEC. 477. In our appetites and our passions, nature leads us on for
						her own purposes.
					SEC. 478. Men are good natured while discussing subjects which are
						known; and in disputing about what is not known but may be known, they are patient and
						respectful; but in their quarrels concerning what can not be known to man, they have
						neither respect, patience, charity, nor mercy. Upon such questions more blood has been
						shed than by all the tyrants on earth.
					SEC. 479. Ignorance is a greater evil in the world than
						dishonesty.
					SEC. 480. Solitude develops the best and worst qualities of our
						nature. They who can repress the worst and develop the best are profited by it, they who
						can not will be apt to be injured by it.
					SEC. 481. The poet is made happy by his imagination, the philosopher
						by his reason, the sage by his knowledge, the fool by his ignorance, the statesman by
						his place, the hero by his victory, and the miser by his money.
					SEC. 482. He who would speak well must be silent much.
					SEC. 483. It is useless to go to the physician for health, to the
						lawyer for justice, or to the priest for  religion, unless
						we practice temperance, honesty, and virtue ourselves.
					SEC. 484. The passions should break against the understandig as the
						sea foam scatters on the rock.
					SEC. 485. Let not the worm crawl into the path if it would not be
						trodden on.
					SEC. 486. For some wrongs there are no remedies. It were a poor
						reparation to give the severed head back to the bleeding neck.
					SEC. 487. The heart may appear fresh when it is dead within, like
						the ivy that covers a moldering wall.
					SEC. 488. He who can bear his trouble has conquered it.
					SEC. 489. It is better, as well as nobler, to confide too much than
						to suspect too much ; but better still to let both confidence and suspicion be guided by
						prudence. 
					SEC. 490. The heart that enjoys the happiness of others can never be
						wholly unhappy itself.
					SEC. 491. Intense sensations, strong passions, deep emotions, clear
						reason, all subordinated to the judgment and directed by the will, are the elements of a
						great man.
					SEC. 492. The most perfect beauty is built around a skeleton.
					SEC. 493. Time too often robs the heart to enrich the head.
					SEC. 494. Be not sad under misfortune; the day of clouds is no
						longer than a day of sunshine.
					SEC. 495. Sweet is the remembrance of danger braved and of duty
						done.



					
					SEC. 496. The sheaf and the laurel can never entwine together, nor
						grow on the same soil.
					SEC. 497. The tree that towers high must take deep root.
					SEC. 498. Be just and pure, that your memories may be sweet.
					SEC. 499. The broadest generalization of duty is to our brother man.
						With this duty neither race, nation, color, condition, nor religion, should
						interfere.
					SEC. 500. Man was made to walk upright; he should never crawl like a
						reptile.
					SEC. 501. It is a noble mind over which interest and passion have no
						dominion.
					SEC. 502. It is not because there is so little in the world to enjoy
						that there is so little happiness, but because there are so few capable of its
						enjoyment.
					SEC. 503. An injury to a noble mind is not a thing of passion to
						pass away in an hour; it is the wounding of a principle which is as eternal as the soul
						itself.
					SEC. 504. There is nothing continual but time, nothing endless but
						eternity.
					SEC. 505. The winds must settle before the waves can sleep; trouble
						can not cease until the cause is gone.
					SEC. 506. The stream of time is fed by tears.
					SEC. 507. In the past, there is no repose for the heart; in the
						future, there is no security for peace. The surest hope of happiness is found in an
						upright mind and a pure conscience.
					SEC. 508. Time steals our joys and feeds us on hope.



					

					SEC. 509. Glory comes not to the cradle; it is laid upon the
						grave.
					SEC. 510. If we wish to have a future or a past, we must take care
						of the present. If we so use the present as to make it into a beautiful past, we shall
						thereby insure a happy future.
					SEC. 511. Fortune or misfortune may come alike to many, but as this
						is borne or that enjoyed, will depend upon the individual. The fire of the stake
						consumes all alike, but those consumed display very different qualities in their
						suffering.
					SEC. 512. Those whom the world calls wise are not always wise; they
						are only a little less ignorant than others.
					SEC. 513. No crown is more honorable than gray hairs upon a worthy
						head.
					SEC. 514. We should daily lay away sweet memories, that we may have
						a store of them when our lives are in the past.
					SEC. 515. Write your hatred in water; engrave your love in
						adamant.
					SEC. 516. Carry not your anger into the next world.
					SEC. 517. In this world there is more truth than error, more right
						than wrong, more good than bad, more beauty than deformity, more health than disease,
						more virtue than vice, more kindness than hatred, more happiness than misery--who, then,
						shall say that the world is base?
					SEC. 518. Out of the womb of time all things are born, into the womb
						of time they sink; time rewards and punishes, accuses and kills.


					
					SEC. 519. The finest palace is only an anteroom to the grave.
					SEC. 520. When only strength is the question, the strong will always
						prevail over the weak; if speed be the only test, the victory will be to the swiftest;
						if weight alone is to prevail,then the heaviest will succeed; and so of all unmixed
						questions. It is no less true that virtue will always ultimately prevail over vice, but
						in the world's estimation the difficult questions are what is virtue? What is vice? So
						many elements often enter into virtue, and so many elements are often necessary to
						constitute vice--indeed, virtue or vice is seldom if ever found unmixed--that these
						questions often become extremely difficult to solve, and are a continual, and the most
						fruitful, source of moral controversy in the world.
					SEC. 521. All savage or barbarous nations or races, in all ages of
						the world, and in all countries, have had similar mental habits. All cultivated and
						refined nations, in all places, and in all times, have resembled in their ideas and
						modes of thought; and all persons of the same degree of intellectual development, have
						resembled in their ideas and modes of thought, and have had similar tastes, even though
						they were of different nations, and belonged to different periods. Humanity is a unity,
						and mind one eternal principle.
					SEC. 522. The tiger tears the lamb, the eagle bears away the dove,
						the shark swallows the promiscuous school; all in the land, the air, and the ocean, have
						their enemies; but man destroys all. Would he warm his mantle with furs? The harmless
						beaver must be torn from his home! Would he adorn his cap with a  feather? The poor ostrich must be hunted down, or the bird of Paradise
						betrayed! Would he feed his voracious appetite? The ox, the deer, the lamb, must bleed!
						The earth, the sea, the air, must yield their fruits, living or dead, to him. Does his
						fellow man stand in the way of his ambition? He, too, must die.
					SEC. 523. Our pleasures often grow out of our pains. What more
						pleasing than a hard but successful struggle in some good cause? What infinite pleasures
						grow out of self-denial, and arise from toil and labor? And our troubles are often the
						results of our pleasures. Who can remember dissipated time, the fleeting illusions of
						inclination, the joys of sated love, without mortification and chagrin.
					SEC. 524. All the great emotions of the soul are too deep for
						utterance. The bitterest grief brings no tears; the greatest joy can not speak; the
						sweetest love has no words; the deepest hatred is silent; and that which moves us most,
						whatever may be the passions or emotion, we can least express.
					SEC. 525. The relations of things are continually changing; good and
						evil are constantly arising and disappearing; man is compelled to choose between good
						and evil, and as he chooses so will be his happiness or misery.
					SEC. 526. How grandly the human race is marching onward from age to
						age, to a higher and higher development, in spite of ignorance, creeds, and
						superstition. Not the earth in its orbit--alike under the guidance of the Divine
						Hand--is more certain in its progress; but the earth annually returns to the same given
						point, relatively, while the moral world, like our solar system, is continually
						advancing into the light of  infinite space. Every year
						enlarges philosophy, corrects science, elevates art, improves literature, liberalizes
						governments, refines morals and purifies religion; indeed, every day some new truth is
						discovered, some error eliminated, or some superstition destroyed.
				

				
				
					CHAPTER X.
					
					
						RELIGION.
					

					SEC. 1. Religion is the tie which binds man to God, and is coeval
						with man and as eternal as God. It is the harmony of the soul with universal and eternal
						truth.
					SEC. 2. Complete religious truth is yet unknown to man. The
						amplitude of disagreement is too wide to ever approximate the standard of infinite
						truth, infinite power, infinite wisdom, and infinite goodness.
					SEC. 3. Religion, philosophy, and science must rest on the same
						basis--truth--or neither can stand. Each is but a part of infinite and eternal
						truth.
					SEC. 4. The present religious creeds of the world bear a relation to
						true religion similar to that which alchemy bore to chemistry, or astrology to astronomy
						--the false working toward the true; the wrong working toward the right; the good
						working toward the better; in short, the imperfect working toward the perfect. It is to
						be hoped that the transition will result in a true understanding of the heavens, and the
						transmutation of the base into the pure.
					SEC. 5. Brahma and Buddha of the East become God and Christ in the
						West; to the latter of which have been added the Holy Ghost and the devil. The Nirwana
						of the East becomes the Heaven of the West, and the ancient Hades has been turned into
						the modern hell.



					
					SEC. 6. Each succeeding religious creed contains something of those
						which preceded it, as each stratum in geology contains something of all which precedes
						it. Brahmanism is but modified Buddhism, Judaism draws from both, and Christianity from
						the three; Mohammedanism is a modification of Christianity, and Mormonism a bastard
						outgrowth of them all. Judaism, though claiming to be the oldest religion on earth, is
						undoubtedly derived from the East; and the religion of the aborigines of America, in the
						extreme West, resembles the earliest religions of the East, being a kind of rude
						Deism.
					SEC. 7. There is nothing except a belief in the universal reign of
						the law of God, which is as immutable, eternal, and infinite as Himself, that can give
						the soul of man repose. When it is left to particular providences, special
						interferences, favorite exceptions, or the teachings of creeds, it is continually
						uneasy, racked, and torn by the thousand winds of doctrine as they happen to blow. When
						we continually see and feel a power in the universe, which uniformly, sooner or later,
						upholds right and prostrates wrong, it does not seem material, as our understandings can
						not comprehend so vast a power, whether we call it God, Spirit, Force, or Law. Yet over
						these names how much wrong has been upheld for a time, and how much right prostrated;
						how much innocent blood has been shed, and how much misery has been suffered, leaving it
						at last to be corrected by that Power which we do not understand, yet which inspires our
						reverence, devotion, and love.
					SEC. 8. Whether God is a Unity, Trinity, a Person, or the Spirit,
						Power, or Law of the Universe, is  a question of no
						importance to man; for if God is either or all of these, He is the same true, just,
						merciful, inexorable being. He is what He is--whatever man may believe Him to be.
					SEC. 9. Fear and hope are the levers of the, church, dogma its
						fulcrum, authority its weights, and ceremonies its machinery. To excite the fear of hell
						and inspire the hope of Heaven in its members, are the ways and means to furnish the
						motive power that moves the works.
					SEC. 10. The creeds of man no more affect religious truth than the
						schools of science affect scientific truth. We are saved or lost according to religious
						truth, not by the creed we believe or practice; so we are preserved or destroyed
						according to scientific truth, not by our belief in science. He who commits murder to
						found a religion is no less a murderer than he who commits murder to destroy a religion;
						the murder is the same in both cases. So he who walks into the fire under the belief
						that it will not burn him will be as certainly burned as if he knew that it would burn
						him before he walked into it. The truth of the burning is the same in both cases.
					SEC. 11. Religion is eternally and universally true; the same here,
						there, now, then, and for all the nations of the earth; yet religions are without
						number, and constantly changing. Barbarism will no more accept the religion of
						intelligence than intelligence will accept the religion of barbarism. As people become
						enlightened, their religion becomes more simple and pure; and as they become more
						barbarous, their religion becomes more complicated and 
						impure. The religion of the savage is beastly and coarse; the religion of the sage is
						simple and pure.
					SEC. 12. There is no more evidence of a revealed religion than there
						is of a revealed philosophy, science, art, or literature, or any other truth. As to the
						sciences, all men agree; as to philosophy, art, and literature, all men approximately
						agree; but as to creeds in religion which claim to have been revealed, they are so
						numerous, unjust, and absurd, and so contradictory to every thing which man can
						comprehend, that very few persons can be found who accept the same creed. If what is
						called revealed religion was uniform, and only supplemented or completed natural
						religion, which is the same every-where, it would gain the credence of all mankind; but,
						unfortunately, revealed religion contradicts natural religion, varies with every nation,
						and is constantly changing.
					SEC. 13. Vedas, Talmuds, Bibles, Testaments, Korans, Gospels,
						Revelations, Prophecies, can at best be no more than transcripts of the Truth, and when
						we find them differing from the Truth, they--and not the Truth--must yield.
					SEC. 14. If we trust to faith without facts, one faith is as good as
						another; if we trust to faith with facts, then only the true faith will be believed.
					SEC. 15. Religion is an element in human nature as palpable as feeling,
						thought, sentiment, sympathy, or any other element, principle, or attribute which is not
						physical; and the philosopher or scientist who ignores religion is as much mistaken as
						the religionist who denies the truth of philosophy or the established facts of
						science.
					SEC. 16. How shall man say what the soul shall  be in a future world, when he knows not what it is in the present world. It
						is not necessary to our happiness in this life that we should know what will be our
						condition in the life hereafter. That we shall be dealt by with exact justice, and with
						the most tender mercy, can not be doubted--and this is a consolation which we can not
						always securely enjoy in this life, even for a single moment.
					SEC. 17. Any fixed creed in either philosophy, science, or religion,
						enslaves the mind. No finite being can know to-day what he may know to-morrow --for
						to-morrow may bring him knowledge which he has not to-day, and show him the error of his
						creed. There should be no creed but truth. Mankind needs no dogmatic religion, no
						formulated creed, no organized church, no pope, no priest. Whosoever will let him teach,
						and let him teach whatsoever he will, but without power except persuasion; whosoever
						will let him believe, and let him believe whatsoever he will, but subject to no power
						except persuasion. Then the world may hope that truth, justice, mercy, and love will
						ultimately unite the human race into one church with God the Eternal Father, and man the
						universal Brother, the Heaven of which shall be the Infinite.
					SEC. 18. When God endowed man with a soul, He endowed him also with
						religion--for religion and soul are inseparable, as much so as mind and thought. Man,
						therefore, can no more prescribe religion to his fellow-man by dogmas and creeds than he
						can endow him with a soul, or create for him a mind and direct his thoughts. Nor can the
						soul dispose of itself ultimately, any more than it can create itself originally. Its
						creator is also its disposer.

					

					SEC. 19. Instead of humbly confessing their blank ignorance of God
						and His ways, religionists persist in teaching their ignorance to others, and damning
						them if they will not believe. Neither the great dark wall through which we emerge into
						life, nor the great dark wall through which we pass into death, can ever be penetrated
						by man.
					SEC. 20. Religion is the most universal principle in human nature.
						Wherever there is a human being, there is religious feeling. Faith comes before
						knowledge. We are religious before we are philosophical, and philosophical before we are
						scientific. Religion is older than history, philosophy, science, art, government, or
						morals.
					SEC. 21. The sacred word, religion, too often means no more than
						dogma, creed, persecution, austerity, and wrong, and sometimes even war. The holy mantle
						of the church is not free from stains of sin nor spots of blood. It is only in those
						brief moments when the mind rises to the contemplation of God and His works, and when
						the soul feels its obligation to Him and its full brotherhood with man; when they are
						both unshackled by the narrow divisions of states, the antagonisms of races, and the
						ghostly skeletons of creeds, that man can see, and then only by glimpses, the grand
						unity of creation and the ineffable glory of the Eternal ONE.
					SEC. 22. Religion in the human race is subjective, and is constantly
						endeavoring to realize itself in the objective; hence arise the different religions, and
						various creeds, rites, and ceremonies, which so perplex the world.
					SEC. 23. Religion on earth is the reflex of religion  in Heaven--the reaching of the soul toward the infinite,
						and its longing for repose in the eternal.
					SEC. 24. God--or that of which, or He of whom, we know nothing, and
						can not possibly know any thing with our present faculties--reveals himself unmistakably
						to each individual, through his works and the laws which govern them. Any other kind of
						revelation is valueless as revelation from him--for if he reveals himself to but one, or
						to a chosen few, the revelation from the one, or the few, to others, would simply be a
						revelation from man to man, not from God to man. It is safer to believe God's revelation
						to man through his works--for they are uniform and unvarying, than man's revelation to
						man--for they are as irregular and changeable as the individuals who make the
						revelations. The world has abundant proof of the frauds practiced by man against man by
						means of pretended revelations, no two of which agree, and not a single instance of
						wrong committed by God against one of His creatures. On the contrary, every created
						thing receives from the Creator His constant care, justice, mercy, and love.
					SEC. 25. Religion is the law of the soul towards God. It can no more
						be changed by human creeds than the law of gravitation can be reversed by human
						enactments. Its truths must be dicosvered, not invented.
					SEC. 26. Religion is a part of man's consciousness, as much as
						thought, judgment, sentiment, emotion, feeling.

					SEC. 27. Religion is co-evil with mankind. It is universal and eternal. To
						derive it exclusively from any particular place, or time, or race of people, or from  an individual, is unsound and absurd. As well derive the
						laws of nature from some particular place, time, race, or person, or from the mud gods
						of barbarians, as to obtain religion from a pope, priest, church, or creed. Man has no
						authority over man in religion. It is a question exclusively between God and the
						individual.
					SEC. 28. Religion is an element of the human soul, an eternal
						principle, and can no more be eradicated from the soul than the law of gravitation, or
						of chemical affinity, can be destroyed in matter.
					SEC. 29. Religion is the most precious gift of God to man, and a
						direct gift to the individual, as life, or the soul is. It is not a gift to a pope,
						priest, or church, to be administered according to a creed. Church organizations are
						usurpations of power. Man certainly has no right to organize himself into societies, and
						deal out or deny the light and air of heaven--which are limited and temporal, but which
						God has given to all living beings alike--to its recipients, according to their beliefs
						or non-beliefs; much less, then, has he the right to organize himself into churches, and
						traffic in the Spirit of God, which is infinite and eternal, dispersing its favors
						according to some creed which the church itself prescribes, and denying it to all
						others. Such usurpation of temporal power over eternal things is the most terrible
						tyranny on earth, for it is the usurpation of God's power instead of man's. A temporal
						tyrant may be conquered, overthrown, or destroyed, but there are no weapons to reach a
						spiritual tyranny. The true mission of the priest is to administer consolation to the
						soul of man, whenever and wherever it can be done--as the physician prescribes medicine
						to relieve  his pain and heal his body--without reference
						to the race, character, or creed of the sufferer. When the church fulfills this mission
						it will have higher claims on humanity than it has ever yet shown.
					SEC. 30. There must be a universal and eternal truth, according to
						which all things are created, upheld, and explained. Philosophy, science, and religion,
						are but parts of this truth. Philosophy is fragmentary, science is imperfect, and
						religion is fractional. Instead of philosophy we have philosophies, instead of science
						we have sciences, instead of religion we have religions. These, as far as they go,
						belong to time and place, rather than to infinity and eternity, in which alone they can
						find their complete fulfillment. All are but parts of one infinite and eternal whole,
						which exists according to infinite and eternal truth.
					SEC. 31. As long as man is a being of consciousness and thought he
						will be a religious being. SEC. 32. Religion is not the product of
						human, creeds--it comes directly from God--but human creeds are the products of
						religion.
					SEC. 33. There is no more basis in human nature upon which to found
						churches to enforce religious creeds than there is for organizing societies to enforce
						virtue, morality, charity, pity, mercy, or any other duty. These are left to the
						individual to settle and practice according to his own conscience, and so should
						religion be. Indeed, there is less ground to uphold a church than to maintain the moral
						virtues, because it assumes, and therefore usurps the power of God to assert its
						authority.
					SEC. 34. Man has no jurisdiction over man in matters of religion; he
						has no power to punish his fellow  man for religious
						errors. Assumption of religious power is usurpation; religious punishment is vengeance.
						There can be no religious freedom until all such usurpations and punishments are
						abandoned, and no religious peace until there is complete religious freedom.
					SEC. 35. Religious creeds begin pure and end in corruption. The
						creeds of China, India, Persia, and Egypt are examples covering vast areas of space, and
						great periods of time, and including immense numbers of the human race. The creeds of
						Judaism, Christianity, and Mohammedanism are running the same course. This will be
						inevitable until man accepts religion as a principle instead of dogma or a faith. As
						well attempt to arrest the force of gravitation, the law of chemical affinities, direct
						the blossoming of flowers, the singing of birds, or the shining of the sun, as to bind
						the soul of man by dogmas.
					SEC. 36. The evidence of true religion exists in an infinite and
						eternal principle--not in prophecies, miracles, nor crucifixions.
					SEC. 37. The grandest religion on earth is Faith in God, without
						reference to any church or creed. No practical truth, no half knowledge, adapted to a
						particular time, place, nation, or race, can convince the mind or satisfy the soul.
					SEC. 38. God is as unswerving in his punishments as he is unwearicd
						in his mercies; and if man render good for evil received from man, much more would God
						render good unto man for evil done unto God.
					SEC. 39. An effort to prevent grass from growing, flowers from
						blooming, or fruit from ripening, by an argument, would be no more vain than to attempt
						to  destroy the religious sentiment in mankind by logic;
						for religion is an element in the human soul, as much as growth is in the powers of
						nature.
					SEC. 40. Religion being an element in human nature, the past and
						present creeds are but incidents to the progress of the race. Other creeds, doubtless,
						will be adopted and abandoned, as many of the past have been, until man discovers full
						religious truth, of which the present creeds are but fractional and perverted parts.
					SEC. 41. Man will always be a religious being--it is his nature to
						be so--but what form or creed his religion will take as the world progresses, it is
						impossible to determine. Whether he will be a follower or an opposer of a Hildebrand or
						a Brigham, may depend upon place, time, birth, race, geography, climate, or some other
						accidental fact.
					SEC. 42. To deny the soul liberty in religion is as unjust as to
						deny light to the eye or breath to the nostril.
					SEC. 43. Religion, which is the love we bear to God, leads to the
						highest attainments, enlarges the heart, inspires the soul to perform the most generous
						acts and the noblest deeds; but church creeds restrict liberty, narrow the mind, repress
						the heart, and imprison the soul.
					SEC. 44. All church creeds, or forms of religion, are affected, more
						or less, by race, climate, habits, and persuits of their votaries, rising from the
						lowest idolatry to the highest and purest worship of God, while religion forever remains
						the same principle. Creeds arise, go down, and pass away; religion is eternal.

					

					SEC. 45. There was no special God for Abraham, Isaac, nor Jacob; nor
						for Christ, Paul, nor John. There is no special God for pope, priest, Christian,
						Mahommedan, nor pagan; nor for kings, princes, or rulers; nor for the great, good, high,
						low, strong or weak. There is no special God for mankind, nor for any particular person
						or thing. God is the God of all, the Father of all--of Christ, angels, man, Satan, and
						of all the things that were, are, or ever will be; and all things are in his care, the
						hair of the head as well as the soul of the body.
					SEC. 46. The belief in future happiness is present happiness; hence,
						the belief of happiness in a future world is the highest happiness we can possess in
						this.
					SEC. 47. Faith settles doubt, pacifies trouble, comforts sorrow, soothes pain,
						and gives us a bright hope in the future while we are struggling in the dark
						present.
					SEC. 48. We can give no reason why we see, hear, feel, taste, smell,
						yet our consciousness convinces our understandings of these sensations. Upon our senses,
						therefore, all our reasoning is built. So we may not be able to give a reason for our
						religious belief, yet it is as convincing to our consciousness as seeing, hearing,
						feeling, tasting, smelling, is to our senses. Reason and faith, then, rest on the same
						basis. We should, therefore, learn to use our reason so as not to mislead the
						understanding, and learn to use our faith so as not to deceive our reason. Faith must
						not contradict the understanding, nor the reason, nor the senses, but it may transcend
						them all, and rest upon conclusions which they can not reach. Thus man attains his  highest knowledge, and what can not be known to man it is
						not necessary that man should know.
					SEC. 49. Historically religion may be traced from the earliest ages
						of idolatry, through the east and Egypt, to Moses, Christ, and Mohammed. It will
						doubtless appear in new forms and creeds as humanity advances, for the world is not yet
						in possession of pure and simple religious truth. All human knowledge points toward a
						higher and purer religion than any the world has yet known, which will reconcile human
						consciousness with the Divine purpose, and harmonize temporal with eternal truth.
					SEC. 50. There is a deep religious sense in the human soul when it
						appears naked before Almighty God, in the presence of whom all rites, forms, and
						ceremonies seem empty, idle, and frivolous, when compared to true worship and
						devotion.
					SEC. 51. In the world to come--the world of All-truth, All-power,
						All-wisdom, All-goodness, All-beauty --let us hope, if our vices must be punished, and
						our follies blown away as chaff, that our errors will be corrected, our virtues
						rewarded, and our happiness secured forever.
					SEC. 52. Different forms in religion are like different languages,
						all speaking different words, yet all endeavoring to express the same thing.
					SEC. 53. Whether the Godhead be a unity or trinity, Three-One or
						One-Three, each One equal to the Three, and the Three only equal to One, is a mere
						metaphysical puzzle which has no solution; for if the One be Three or the Three One, it
						is the same thing. There can not be three eternities, nor three infinities, nor three
						unities. Whatever is all is one.

					

					SEC. 54. Religion, which is our duty to God, is not morality, which
						is our duty to man; but religion includes morality--for it would be in vain to suppose
						that we can perform our duty to God and at the same time violate our duty to man; and
						just as vain to hope that by performing our duty to man we thereby perform our duty to
						God.
					SEC. 55. Religion rests on faith. Faith is that faculty of the soul
						which compels the mind to believe without evidence, but not against proof. It spans the
						chasm between man and God, from the known to the unknown, from the finite to the
						infinite, which the understanding can not pass over. It forms the wings that bear the
						soul to God.
					SEC. 56. A religion that contradicts the understanding can not be
						true any more than a contradiction in science can be true; but a religion which merely
						transcends the understanding may be true if faith confirms it. The only true science of
						religion is God; forms and creeds are the works of man.
					SEC. 57. A belief in the existence of God, and in His
						attributes--omniscience, omnipotence, omnipresence--is as far as the human mind can
						reach, and all the understanding of man can embrace. So far all mankind essentially
						agree. Creeds which go beyond this belief must be based on faith.
					SEC. 58. God's great Book of the universe is too large to bind in
						one volume, and lay upon the desk of a pulpit. Its leaves are the skies, its pages the
						stars, and its teachings infinite and eternal truth.
					SEC. 59. Man's idea of God is that of all the best attributes of
						humanity combined in One Being, and made infinite and eternal. His capacity can conceive
							 of no greater Deity. The various races of mankind have
						their notions of God in accordance with the degrees of their capacity and intelligence.
						Every sentient being makes its future heaven of what is best and most pleasing to its
						nature in its present life, and its hell of what is worst and most painful. It is not
						possible for any being to conceive a God greater than the limits of its own capacity.
						Unless God is greater than the human mind can conceive Him to be, there is no God worthy
						of our worship. Little souls have little Gods, and great souls can have no God greater
						than the soul.
					SEC. 60. There is nothing in vain. God hears the bird that sings in
						the untrodden wild, and sees the flower that blooms on the desert plain. He knows of the
						just deed though it be unseen of men, and rewards the good heart though it suffers pain.
						All belong to the wisdom, goodness, beauty, and harmony of His great design, and are
						necessary to the fulfillment of eternal truth.
					SEC. 61. The distance between God and man seems to us so great, that
						we fain would unite ourselves to Him through the mediation of angels, spirits, saviors,
						yet we are forever in his bosom.
					SEC. 62. God does not reveal Himself to one being more than to
						another, except in the proportion of its capacity to receive and know him.
					SEC. 63. If this infinite system of cause and effect, bound in
						immutable and eternal laws, has created the universe, and man and his soul, why should
						we not worship that as devoutly, hopefully, and lovingly, as though it was a personal
						God? We can conceive of an infinite system of laws which create and uncreate,  uphold and overthrow, give life and take it away, but an
						infinite and omnipotent person is, to our minds, a self-contradiction. Infinity can have
						no limits, and, hence, can not be a person, neither can a person be infinite. To be the
						smallest atom in such a system is a most sublime idea, and to be a soul in the midst of
						the universe, belonging to such a system, is a most ennobling aspiration.
					SEC. 64. God is conthiually whispering to the consciousness of
						man--this is true, that is false; this is right, that is wrong; this is good, that is
						bad; this is virtue, that is vice--and when man is disobedient his punishment is
						inevitable. No one can break a law, however secretly, without suffering the penalty.
					SEC. 65. Man has the same right to liberty, justice, and mercy as he
						has to his life, and the same right to his soul as he has to his life--for his soul is
						his life; and as those never were intrusted by the Creator to the keeping of kings and
						tyrants, so this was never committed to the keeping of popes and priests. To be free,
						man must govern himself; to be happy, he must obey God.
					SEC. 66. When God shall cover up the sun, and hide the stars, then
						he will withdraw his face from man. A single glance at His Temple--the sky--teaches us
						more than all the sermons ever preached by man.
					SEC. 67. If we follow truth we shall reach God; if we pursue error
						we shall never find him.
					SEC. 68. "The fool hath said, in his heart, there is no God." The
						sectarian says, there is no God except for me. The wise and good man says, there is one
						God for all.

					

					SEC. 69. Be outwardly correct for man's eye, and secretly pure for
						God's.
					SEC. 70. For every sin which God has declared, man has invented a
						hundred, and has invoked the Almighty's wrath to punish his fellow-man.
					SEC. 71. It is no great merit in man to seek God in his last
						moments, when he believes that he is going to hell.
					SEC. 72. Man's justice belongs to time, God's to eternity.
					SEC. 73. It is a fearful presumption in pope, priest, or man to say:
						"I am God's vicegerent on earth;" and sacrilege for a church to say, through its creed:
						"This is the only way;" and what empty folly to derive religion from a book, and
						declare: "This is all"--with the sky above us, the earth beneath us, and the universe
						around us.
					SEC. 74. Conscience is a writing by the finger of God on the soul of
						man.
					SEC. 75. God never breaks one of his laws to mend another.
					SEC. 76. Every human being stands face to face with his Maker, and
						is responsible to Him for every act of his life. There is no church, pope, priest, or
						creed that can either save or damn him. God alone disposes of all according to His
						Infinite and Eternal truth.
					SEC. 77. Is the soul of man an entity, an actual existence? or is it
						the passing relation of antecedents and consequents in the phenomena of life? Is it any
						thing more than a principle?
					SEC. 78. The soul fills the range between intellect and passion and
						partakes of both.

					

					SEC. 79. The soul, being immortal, enjoys the past in memory and the
						future in hope. It longs for a resting place here, and hopes for it there.
					SEC. 80. The soul knows of truths which are not traced by lines, nor
						proved by numbers, nor measured by distances, nor weighed by pounds; truths gently
						whispered to the spirit of man, on which he acts through life, and by which he willingly
						dies.
					SEC. 81. The soul has a consciousness of its immortality, while the
						body feels itself to be mortal. The body, when suffering pain and anguish, even desires
						the repose of the grave, while the thought that we shall cease to be, as though we had
						not been, oppresses and overwhelms the soul.
					SEC. 82. A great soul will never be afflicted with the vicissitudes
						that happen to the body.
					SEC. 83. Fain would the soul fly from star to star and hold
						communion with its Maker, but its marriage with the body reduces it to the slavery of
						the earth.
					SEC. 84. The steps by which the soul ascends must be let down from
						Heaven; we can not base them on the earth.
					SEC. 85. There are means of communication between souls more subtle
						and swift than the electric telegraph, which do not work through clumsy iron wires, but
						by mysterious and invisible cords, binding them together through all time and space, and
						connecting them as one in eternity.
					SEC. 86. The soul, at best, can leave but a poor record of itself on
						earth, being immortal, it must ascend to immortality before its powers can find their
						full scope.
					SEC. 87. The soul flits around the dying clay as  the darting flame around the smouldering embers; and death
						but brushes the dust from it, that it may mount unincumbered to God.
					SEC. 88. A great passion to the soul is like the overflow of a
						river, though it may not be wholly pure, it enriches it from the effect it leaves.
					SEC. 89. The soul is no more a part of the body than the music is a
						part of the harp.
					SEC. 90. The fear of death is not the fear of the soul to leave the
						body; it is the fear of the body to lose the soul.
					SEC. 91. The hunger of the body is fed by the wheaten loaf; the
						hunger of the soul needs the bread of Heaven.
					SEC. 92. It were better to give souls to inferior creatures than to
						deny a soul to man.
					SEC. 93. Keep the soul pure on earth and it will remain pure
						hereafter, whatever may be our religion or our creed.
					SEC. 94. Souls are created and disposed of according to principles
						more permanent than the caprices of human belief. Our creeds are largely made up of our
						hopes and fears, our pains and pleasures, our desires and aversions, and frequently
						affected by the accidents of birth, race, nation, temperament, education; and often
						colored by the contingencies of health or interests. Creeds of religion, codes of
						morals, systems of philosophy, theories of science, can not affect eternal truth. Souls,
						therefore, must be saved or lost by principles deeper, wider, higher, than we can
						understand or imagine. Our beliefs, temporarily, may affect us for better or for worse,
						but how idle for man to  suppose that his creed can affect
						Almighty God in His infinite and eternal purposes.
					SEC. 95. Faith is the instinct of the soul. There is a confidence in
						faith which the concurrence of all mankind can not strengthen, and which the opposition
						of fire and faggot can not weaken. It is in our nature as much as reason is, and as
						convincing to the judgment. As far as reason goes it agrees with faith, but faith goes
						beyond reason, and there finds its grounds of belief, which reason can not controvert.
						Within the domain of reason, faith must yield to reason; within the domain of faith,
						reason must yield to faith. Faith is a faculty of the soul as much as reason and the
						understanding are faculties of the mind.
					SEC. 96. The faith that satisfies a soul and makes it better, is the
						best faith for that soul, however it may differ from the faith of other souls. The
						belief or non-belief of a particular creed has no more to do with the salvation of our
						souls, than to understand or not understand mathematics, geometry, astronomy, or any
						other of the abstract or applied sciences has to do with truth.
					SEC. 97. It is impossible to eradicate religion from human nature,
						because it is one of its primitive elements. It is also impossible to erase faith from
						human consciousness, because it is a constituent element in the soul. Faith takes up the
						soul where the understanding leaves it, and bears it on to God.
					SEC. 98. He whose faith is anchored in the bosom of God, will never
						be disturbed by the storms and waves and shifting sands of human creeds.
					SEC. 99. Theology can never become a science, because it has no
						common basis of knowledge upon  which all men agree, nor
						upon which any considerable proportion of the human race approximate to the same belief.
						Creeds, therefore, must be forever different and continually varying. Theology is
						founded on the spiritual nature of man, and not on faith; science is founded in his
						mental powers, and rests on the reason and understanding.
					SEC. 100. The doctrines of theologians, and the various creeds of
						churches, can no more regulate the laws of spirit, than the theories of philosophers, or
						the wrangling of the schools, can change the laws of nature. A church can no more
						dictate terms to a soul by which is shall be saved, than a college can prescribe the
						laws of matter by which it shall be governed. Man can save his soul by obedience to the
						laws of its being, as he can preserve his body by living in harmony with the laws of
						matter.
					SEC. 101. Theology endeavors to make man an angel, and, failing in
						this, insists that he is a devil. He is neither angel nor devil, but man, and, as man, is as perfect as angels are as angels, and no more perfect
						than brutes are as brutes.
					SEC. 102. It is strange that theology, which is simply the truth
						concerning God; and religion, which is simply the true relation to God--and therefore in
						their nature as eternal as God--should have gone through as many changes as the
						fashions. The cause lies, not in theology and religion, but in the imperfections of
						man's capacity.
					SEC. 103. A system of vicarious punishment invites transgression; a
						system of personal punishment deters transgression. A system of earthly vicarious
						punishment would shock the conscience of the human  race,
						and confound all sense of justice and mercy; but a system of personal punishment, in
						proportion to the transgression, fulfills the sense of justice to the transgressor, and
						mercy to the innocent, and thus becomes reformatory.
					SEC. 104. Man builds churches; God builds the church. The present
						churches of the world are mere conventionalisms, and the world falls in with one creed
						about as easily as with another, according to the accident of birth, race, climate, or
						position, while religion soars far above them all.
					SEC. 105. Judaism was a reaction from polytheism, and Christianity a
						reaction from Judaism.
					SEC. 106. The Hebrews have their cherubim and seraphim, the
						Christians their Holy Spirit--the dove--and their angels; the Persians have their
						peries, the Greeks their demons, the Romans their genii, and the Arabs their houris--of
						the last of which the modern fairy is a sister--indeed they may all be called sisters,
						for they are born of the same mother--the Imagination. The human mind is prone to people
						space from the finite to the infinite.
					SEC. 107. The creeds of the churches are foolishness to the
						understanding, their morals empty to the heart, their religion unsatisfactory to the
						conscience, their faith repugnant to reason, and their practice mere policy. They govern
						through fear--the meanest passion of our nature, instead of love--the noblest. Such a
						system will never develop the capacity of the human race to its full strength and
						worth.
					SEC. 108. Religious creeds and church dogmas are inconsistent with
						tolerance, and when they have any  power in temporal
						affairs, are inimical to human liberty and the freedom of thought.

					SEC. 109. The tyranny of the church, the dissoluteness of the
						clergy, the unnatural debauchery of the monks, prepared the world to receive
						Mohammedanism. The pretense that the conduct of the church was too sacred for human
						inquiry, or secular examination, led to the wars of the fifteenth, sixteenth, and
						seventeenth centuries, and the terrible bloodshed of the race. The fiction that the
						spirit of the church may be pure while its body is corrupt, is destructive of all human
						elevation. The church can not rise while its members are degraded; the body is not well
						when the limbs are diseased, the spirit is impure when its conduct is debased.
					SEC. 110. Bibles may be written by inspiration, or revelation, or
						otherwise; testaments may be declared, and sealed by the blood of crucifixions; but they
						can not so much as change one sentence, one word, one syllable, or one letter of the
						Great Book of Truth, which is as infinite and eternal as its author--God.
					SEC. 111. The greater the absurdity in a religious creed, the
						greater the faith in believing it. This is a maxim in theology. In philosophy, science,
						art, literature, morals, government, or in any of the affairs of life, it would, indeed,
						be the greatest absurdity, and require the greatest faith to believe it. The maxim, in
						itself, is unanswerably true, but it expresses only the relation of absurdity and faith,
						not of truth and fact, which form the only ground work of human knowledge.
					SEC. 112. There are many little infallibilities in the religious
						world, either of which, if it had the power,  would play
						sad havoc with the order of things; yet the universe moves on in its grandure,
						notwithstanding. 
					SEC. 113. Before the Christian era the human body was thought to he
						the most perfect natural work of God, and the human soul no less than the Spirit of God
						Himself; but the Christian creed teaches us that the human body is nothing but a
						corrupt, sinful, and festering casket, that holds a fallen, perverted, sinful, and
						born-to-be-damned soul.
					SEC. 114. We inherit our religious creeds from the earliest and
						darkest ages. They were at first propagated by war, and obeyed through fear. There is
						not one amongst them all, which, if announced for the first time in the nineteenth
						century would gain the least credence. This does not prove, however, that man is not a
						religious being, nor that there is no true religion in the world, for religion is an
						element of the human soul; but its creeds can no more be formulated into dogmas than the
						emotions of the heart can be reduced to syllogisms, or the visions of the imagination be
						subjected to logical sequences.
					SEC. 115. Some religious creeds condemn man without a trial, place
						him on the gallows, put a rope around his neck, fasten it to predestination, spring the
						drop, then tell him to stand or fall; and call upon God to approve--nay, more, declare
						that He has pronounced the irrevocable decree.
					SEC. 116. There is no crime known to man which has not been
						justified by some religious creed; and no religious creed which has not at some time
						been held to be a crime. There is not a Bible nor a sacred book  in the world which has not been, in the course of time, held both commical
						and apocryphal.
					SEC. 117. Human creeds have no more to do with saving or damning
						souls than they have with the regulation of the stars, or the laws of gravitation. No
						dogma can affect immutable truth, by which souls must be saved or damned, and which is
						unalterably and eternally the same, whether it is believed or disbelieved, approved or
						opposed by man.
					SEC. 118. There is not a religious dogma that can be proved to the
						understanding--for if it could be so proved it would cease to be a religious dogma, and
						become a scientific proposition--and not one so absurd that it may not convince our
						faith.
					SEC. 119. Dogmas which may be proved remain established, those which
						can be disproved are soon rejected, but those which can neither be proved nor disproved
						are continually disturbing the world. They are believed by some, disbelieved by others,
						received then, rejected now, and thus become fruitful causes of dispute in philosophy,
						science, art, literature, and religion.
					SEC. 120. The pagan martyr suffers death for his religion as readily
						as the Christian martyr. Each thus attests his own while he detests the other's creed.
						It is not the creed but their heroism which supports them. In this they are alike. It is
						the law of a brave soul to die happy, however its body may meet its death.
					SEC. 121. Creeds are local and temporary, truth is infinite and
						eternal. Truth and fact must not be confounded as one. Truth is, was, and must be; facts
							 may or may not be. There should be no creed but
						truth.
					SEC. 122. Take from the Christian religion its justice, morality,
						mercy, and charity--leaving merely its creeds, original sin, the fall, free will,
						foreordination, trinity, unity--it is like cutting the flesh from the bones--there is
						nothing left but death and the skeleton. The creeds are problems insoluble to the human
						mind, and as a present guide or future hope, are barren and desolate. All religions
						which teach justice, morality, mercy, charity, and love, are good.
					SEC. 123. Whatever human creeds may be, or whatever dogmatic
						religion may claim, every thought we think, and every act we do, must have reference to
						all things and all times. That which has been must forever be; that is, it must forever
						be that it has been.
					SEC. 124. Let the Jew go to his synagogue, the Mahommedan to his
						mosque, the Catholic to his cathedral, the Protestant to his church, the Friend to his
						meeting house; the Sceptic to his garret; the Infidel to his "cold
						obstruction"--religion is ever the same.
					SEC. 125. Superstition and witchcraft were the inevitable
						corollaries of the church during fifteen centuries. 
					SEC. 126. There is no more need of creeds in religion than there is
						of creeds for breathing the air, or enjoying the sunshine; or for dogmas in fearing,
						hoping, loving. As well divide the infinite blue of Heaven, and say this part is right,
						that part is wrong; or devote this star to good and that star to evil. Religion is the
						highest and purest principle in human nature, and can no more be affected by creeds and
							 dogmas, than the universe can be disturbed by the
						theories of philosophy or science. The relation of the creature to the creator is fixed
						by omniscience, extends through infinity, endures with eternity, and has the sanction of
						omnipotence.
					SEC. 127. Although religion is the purest principle of the soul, the
						highest and noblest known to our nature, yet by the monstrous dogmas of church creeds it
						has been degraded to the lowest and basest uses.
					SEC. 128. A reasonable faith in the eternal order of the universe,
						and a fond hope in the immortality of the soul, is the best creed known to man. What
						more there is can be known only to God.
					SEC. 129. Instead of reliance on the universal fatherhood of God,
						and the universal brotherhood of man, each little church arms God with its own petty
						vengeance, loads Christ with its sins, and complaisantly books its members for Heaven;
						happy in the belief that nobody else is good enough to go there to disturb their holy
						rest.
					SEC. 130. No one would disparage religion--it is the tie that binds
						us to God--but it must be admitted, historically, that human liberty has been won, and
						human rights secured, by those who professed no particular religious creed. Not
						religion, but religious creeds, have always stood in the way of human progress; and when
						creed fights creed the human race is always benefited by the conflict.
					SEC. 131. The church is not only stained with innocent blood, but it
						is drenched with it. It has shed more blood wrongfully, during the period of its
						existence, than all the kings, princes, rulers, warriors, 
						and tyrants of the earth, during any equal period of time. This assertion is but the
						statement of historic truth.
					SEC. 132. Popes, priests, councils, churches, clergy, and
						creed-makers of all kinds, argued, quarreled, fought, persecuted, imprisoned,
						assassinated, poisoned, drowned, smothered, tortured, burned, racked, killed and
						murdered in every possible way during fifteen centuries, without settling a single
						truth, fact, faith, creed, or worship; and but for human laws would have continued the
						same wrong, tyranny, and bloodshed to the present time; while, during all this sad
						period, religion--the pure spirit of justice, mercy, and love--was the same, and must
						ever be the same while man lives and God reigns.
					SEC. 133. How any person, with the grandeur and magnificence of the
						universe before him, rolling on in eternal harmony; and with the power, wisdom,
						goodness, and love of Almighty God continually displayed throughout his works, can
						ignore all of this and accept the human creed of a church, a pope, or priest, of any
						kind, must ever remain a mystery to rational minds.
					SEC. 134. Faith believes with proof, without proof, beyond proof,
						and against proof. There is no faculty of the mind so uncertain as faith, and yet
						nothing so powerful to control our conduct. There is nothing too absurd for superstition
						and fanaticism to believe.
					SEC. 135. If the Bible be true it is immaterial whether it was
						written from revelation or inspiration, because truth is truth from whatever source it
						is derived. If the Bible is false, then, all the revelation  and inspiration in the universe can not make it true. All knowledge is revelation,
						all thought inspiration.
					SEC. 136. Sin is like a spot of blood on the brow of innocence, or a
						dark stain on a pure soul. Sometimes it appears as a serpent, beautiful but
						terrible.,
					SEC. 137. The frowns of earth injure us not when we have the smiles
						of Heaven.
					SEC. 138. There is a world not made of dust.
					SEC. 139. Every man is his own Saint Peter, and carries the key, not
						only to Heaven, but also to hell. Where truth and goodness dwell, there is Heaven; where
						error and sin are, there is hell.
					SEC. 140. How often the lamb--religion--has been made to play the
						tiger--persecution.
					SEC. 141. It requires more courage to steadily march into unknown
						and eternal darkness, than to enter even hell itself. But when we go among the dead we
						shall be in good company.
					SEC. 142. What we can not understand we are not required to know;
						and what can not be known, it is not necessary that we should know.
					SEC. 143. As the body is in health when it obeys the laws of nature,
						so the mind is wise when it follows the laws of truth, and the soul happy when it is in
						harmony with God. With a sound body, a wise mind, and a pure soul, we are certain of
						happiness. This condition is true health, true wisdom, and true religion.
					SEC. 144. Health is the harmony of the body, morals is the harmony
						of the mind, religion is the harmony of the soul.
					SEC. 145. Revelation is but the finding of truth and opening it out
						to view; inspiration is but the  power of finding the
						truth, and of expressing it to others.
					SEC. 146. We can not be happy till we have been unhappy. It is
						sorrow that delivers us from sorrow, and suffering that delivers us from suffering.
					SEC. 147. Man is a being between two worlds, and he should never
						forget that he belongs to both.
					SEC. 148. There is not enough in earth to make us happy without the
						hope of Heaven.
					SEC. 149. A good man and a bad man may sometimes act alike, the one
						because he fears hell and the other because he hopes for Heaven, yet there is a great
						difference in their characters.
					SEC. 150. Not only Eden had, but every garden still has, its
						serpent.
					SEC. 151. The course which leads above to eternal happiness is but a
						continuation of the path which secures us happiness below.
					SEC. 152. Worms are impatient for the body while angels are waiting
						for the soul.
					SEC. 153. The grave lies directly in the path of Heaven.
					SEC. 154. Man is a capricious child. He begins with the toys of
						infancy, advances to the trifles of youth, tires with the play-things of manhood, till,
						at last he sickens of earth and turns his hopes to a future world.
					SEC. 155. What truth Christ taught was not the truth because he
						taught it; but he taught it because it was the truth. It was the truth from the
						foundation of time; and will be the truth in eternity, and would have been the same if
						Christ had never lived or died.

					

					SEC. 156. Love rules in all places except in hell.
					SEC. 157. If thrust from all the doors of earth we may still knock
						at the door of Heaven.
					SEC. 158. We chase happiness in this world from the cradle to the
						coffin without securing it; and at last we hope for it in another world.
					SEC. 159. Death joins as well as severs, and severs as well as
						joins. He severs us below that we may be joined above.
					SEC. 160. The ancients slaughtered animals to appease their
						divinities; the moderns slew Christ to propitiate their God. Neither sacrifice changed
						the truth.
					SEC. 161. If the divinity of Christ was but of the same kind as that
						which "stirs within us" all, and His inspiration the same in kind as that which animates
						every soul, yet, having these qualities in a higher degree than any other being that
						ever lived, He was still the best and most beautiful character that ever appeared on
						earth.
					SEC. 162. That we may be prepared to die, we should live every day
						as if it were our last; and, that we may be prepared to live, we should live every day
						as if we were never to die.
					SEC. 163. All thought is inspiration, all truth is revelation.
					SEC. 164. Genius, in its elevation, and even in its degradation, is
						still akin to religion. The seers and prophets were men of genius--for genius is
						inspiration. 
					SEC. 165. The heaviest oppression of the human race, and blackest
						sins of earth, have been committed in the name of religion.



					

					SEC. 166. It is easy to bayonet a man but quite impossible to
						bayonet his belief.
					SEC. 167. Every leaf writes its history on earth, and every soul
						makes its record in Heaven. All nature praises God in wordless hymns, no less than the
						angels in articulate songs.
					SEC. 168. The wisest sage can not reveal himself to the ignorant,
						yet they praise him, and follow his teachings; the kindest father can not reveal himself
						to his little child, yet it loves and obeys him; much less, then, can God reveal himself
						to man, yet man may obey and adore Him. The infinite can not reveal itself to the
						finite, because the finite can not receive the infinite.
					SEC. 169. Man must be allowed to indulge in beliefs which can not be
						proved--it is an essential element to human happiness.
					SEC. 170. The hope of immortality is but a higher, enlarged, and
						more refined self-love.
					SEC. 171. We live but a moment in the midst of eternity, and see but
						a glimpse in the midst of infinity, yet have the presumption to judge of God and His
						designs!
					SEC. 172. There is something beautiful in death. If our dying hour
						could be freed from physical pain, the dogmas of priests, and the chimeras of
						superstition, it would be the most sublime moment of our lives.
					SEC. 173. The fulcrum of the church is another world, which
						Archimides could not find to move this.
					SEC. 174. The hope of Heaven excites the fear of hell; the fear of
						hell inspires the hope of Heaven.
					SEC. 175. No one can comprehend the incomprehensible; no one can
						khow the unknowable; no one  can teach the unteachable.
						Every one would suppose that these propositions were self-evident; yet prophets, popes,
						and priests pretend to comprehend, know, and teach them all.
					SEC. 176. The only truth in religion upon which the soul can repose,
						lies in the bosom of God, and inspires our unspoken faith which never varies.
					SEC. 177. The desire of immortality is the most intensely selfish
						feeling in human nature. What is the creature that he should expect immortality from his
						Creator? Because he was created to live seventy years, must he therefore live forever?
						He was nothing before he was created, and if he becomes nothing after he is uncreated,
						what cause has he to complain of his Creator? To be unselfish towards our fellow man is
						regarded as the highest mark of civilization, and of the best morals; to be unselfish
						towards our Creator--to be counted as nothing before Him--to sacrifice ourselves for
						Him--must be the purest religion, and most devoted worship.
					SEC. 178. Experience and proof are limited; faith and belief are
						unlimited; we therefore believe in God without being able to prove His existence.
					SEC. 179. When the human race becomes able to think for itself, the
						occupation of the priesthood will be gone.
					SEC. 180. Man should not fear death. The most sublime act of his
						life is to die. The noblest work in creation is thus changed for an infinite and eternal
						purpose. The dust in the tomb fulfills the grand design of God, as completely as in the
						living heart.
					SEC. 181. Nothing is more difficult to explain than  the dogmas of religion; nothing easier to understand than
						its simple duties.
					SEC. 182. Time holds the scroll of Fate mysteriously written in
						Heaven, which, line by line, it unerringly unfolds to man.
					SEC. 183. If a physical pain is felt more acutely than a moral pain,
						it should be remembered that the one is fleeting, and must end in death at the farthest,
						while the other is enduring, and may be eternal. The one is but the pain of the body,
						the other, the pain of the soul.
					SEC. 184. When we have learned how to live, then we shall know how
						to die; and when we have learned how to die, then we shall know how to live.
					SEC. 185. The human will is free relative to man, but in the
						absolute will of God, it must be fixed.
					SEC. 186. It is an ill spirit that complains of God because he has
						not made man better than he is; it would be more becoming to worship God because He has
						made man so good.
					SEC. 187. The world is but one church; its mountains are pulpits;
						the sky, its dome; God, its minister; and every human being a member.
					SEC. 188. The deeper we investigate truth, the more enlarged becomes
						the mind; and the higher our aspirations rise, the purer becomes the soul.
					SEC. 189. Truth, goodness, beauty--these are the eternal trinity.
						The more we know of truth, the more we do of goodness; the more we love beauty, the
						nearer we are to God.
					SEC. 190. The true, perfect, and complete church must embrace
						humanity, past, present, and future, . time and eternity.
						.Religion is pure, infinite, and eternal love.
					SEC. 191. Constant and slavish obedience to the mere forms of law,
						and to customs and fashions, gradually subdue our moral actions, and mold our manners to
						mere ceremonies, without there being any genuine loyalty, vigorous morality, or manly
						courtesy within us; so the formal rites of a church, the ceremonies of priests, the
						outward compliance with rituals, at length take the place of religion in the heart, and
						leave us acting as if we were mere automatons.
					SEC. 192. There must needs be greater things in the future for man
						than have been in the past.
					SEC. 193. Morals begin where laws end; religion begins where morals
						end; laws may not contradict morals; morals may not contradict religion. Morals
						transcend laws, and religion transcends morals. Thus is built the pyramid of duty.
					SEC. 194. The delusions of prophets, the pretentions of priests, and
						the devices of hypocrites, have misled mankind most woefully. It is fortunate for the
						world that their period is rapidly passing away.
					SEC. 195. As daylight scares away ghosts, so light to the mind
						destroys superstition.
					SEC. 196. That philosophy which denies religion is not sound; that
						religion which rejects philosophy is not true.
					SEC. 197. Philosophy teaches us that we know nothing, and religion
						makes us contented with our ignorance.
					SEC. 198. Church creeds and dogmatic religion have set like incubi on the human race; but, like incubi,  they will probably disappear when the patient awakes.
					SEC. 199. It is impossible to prove the truth of religion to the
						human understanding, because it is not by the understanding that we are convinced of the
						truth of religion; besides, if we could, it would cease to be a religion, and take its
						place at once in the domain of science.
					SEC. 200. Faith both precedes and succeeds the understanding. We
						know nothing of the beginning nor of the end of things, and these extremes are decided
						by faith alone.
					SEC. 201. When we see the great superiority of mind over matter, of
						truth over error, of good over bad, of right over wrong, of health over disease, of
						beauty over deformity, of happiness over misery, of pleasure over pain, and of life over
						death, no one should say that this world is accursed. It is the work of God, and to
						curse God's works is to curse God.
					SEC. 202. In matters of reason, which may be decided by the
						understanding, men often disagree, but seldom show asperity; in matters of religion,
						which can not be decided by the understanding, they will butcher their antagonists and
						shed their own blood.
					SEC. 203. Church controversies are so dogmatic and narrow that they
						sicken the soul. They do not seem to belong to the simple, pure, and holy precepts of
						religion, which may be expressed in, a single word --love; not love alone for our sect,
						our friends, our country, or even for our race, but love to God, the whole world, and to
						every created thing.
					SEC. 204. The excellence of the Christian religion consists in its
						universal brotherhood, universal justice,  universal
						charity, and universal mercy. This universality was the reaction from the exclusiveness
						of Judaism ; and if its virtues had been practiced as zealously as its dogmas were
						preached, much persecution and bloodshed wonld have been spared the human race, and the
						world made much better and happier than it is."
					SEC. 205. That God remained quiescent during the eternity of the
						past, until six thousand years ago, then created the universe; that he made man out of
						the dust of the earth, and woman out of the rib of man, placed them in a garden, and
						commanded them not to eat of the fruit of a certain tree; that they did eat of the
						forbidden fruit, whereby they fell from the favor of their Creator; that their
						offspring, through endless generations, in consequence of their fall, are born to
						eternal damnation; that to relieve them from this terrible sentence, God begot, on the
						body of a virgin, a child, which, after growing to manhood, was crucified to appease His
						Father's wrath against the human race; that He sent His Spirit in the shape of a dove to
						approve of His Son, and to testify to mankind of His mission; that the Father, the Son,
						and the Spirit are one, that either of them is equal to them all, and the three no
						greater than either one; that only those who believe in these dogmas can be saved from
						eternal perdition--if man ever fell from God, and there is no other way to return to Him
						than through the belief of this creed, then the creation of man was an inconceivably
						cruel act. Far better to remain in the dust in eternal unconsciousness than to be thus
						created to suffer, to die, and be consigned to eternal misery. Innumerable millions, by
						far the largest  portion of the human race, have been
						born, lived, and died, who could not possibly have known of this creed; millions upon
						millions have believed and died in the faith of other creeds; the creed itself has been
						taught nearly nineteen hundred years, and is still in dispute, without a single
						proposition settled, and only a small portion of the nations where it has been taught
						embrace its dogmas, and scarcely two of those who do believe the creed understand it
						alike; wherefore thousand upon thousand of innocent victims have been slaughtered by
						their fellow men; while millions upon millions believe in no creed except in the
						All-Power, the All-Knowledge, the All-Wisdom, the All-Goodness, and the All-Love of
						Almighty God. Who shall decide what none can know? Well may man exclaim:--Oh, Charity,
						where is thy Mantle; oh, God, where is thy Justice; oh, Christ, where is thy Mercy!
					SEC. 206. It is plain that the Creator, throughout the universe, has
						taken care of His works by endowing them with inherent principles, and adjusting them to
						fixed laws, by which they work out their own ends and accomplish His grand purpose. Hie
						takes the same care of a grain of sand on the seashore as he does of the star in the
						sky, and holds in His hand the smallest atom of matter as well as the greatest orb that
						rolls in infinite space; and is as watchful of the fate of an insect as He is of the
						life of man. With all His care for the least and meanest object in the universe, it
						would be a strange incongruity, indeed, if He had left the greatest and noblest object
						of His creation, the human soul--a part of His breath and spirit, to the care of popes
						and priests, churches and creeds,  which are as unsteady
						as the clouds, and as unstable as the waves.
					SEC. 207. Every day is as new as the first day of creation. There is
						light or darkness always and every-where. The Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil grows
						in every garden and forest and on every lawn, and no one must eat of its fruit, or eat
						at his peril. There is a garden on every spot of earth, and in every heart, to dress and
						to keep. There is a voice going forth in the morning and in the evening, and
						continually--albeit it may not be articulated into words--saying: Do ye this and be
						happy; do ye that and be miserable. There is life and joy in right, and ruin and death
						in wrong. Whatsoever man may do or not do, whatsoever he may believe or not believe,
						there is a crucifixion for every vice, and a redemption for every virtue. Truth will
						come, and error shall disappear. These things are written in the heavens, on the earth,
						and in the soul of man. He must obey or suffer.
					SEC. 208. The mind and soul of man demand a higher truth and a purer
						religion than any the world has yet received, to give his mental and spiritual nature
						repose. To know that the earth must yield to time--that the stars must drop down from
						their bright abode, and that the sun must at length refuse his light--unsettles the
						peace of the soul. Nothing that ends with time can fill the spirit's hope; eternity
						alone can give rest to the undying soul.
					SEC. 208. The time is past when it was thought necessary that the
						pulpit should preach the old creeds which have drenched the earth with innocent blood,
						enslaved the hmnian race, debased the conscience of  man,
						and resisted the progress of truth, liberty, and fraternity. The time has come when the
						pulpit should teach the eternal principles of the universe, truth, justice, mercy, and
						love. There is but one truth; hence there can be but one religion, and therefore there
						should be but one creed--the Universal Fatherhood of God, and the Universal Brotherhood
						of Man.

				
			
		
	

