
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Byrum, E. E. (Enoch Edwin), b. 1861. Travels and experiences in other lands. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2011).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAB9593
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        

		
			

			

				Frontispiece

				
					
						Yours in him E.E. Byrum.
					
				
			

			
				
					
					
						Travels and Experiences
						In Other Lands.
					
				
				
					BY
					E. E. BYRUM.
				
				
					Author of "The Secret of Salvation; How to Get It and How to Keep It,"
						"Divine Healing of Soul and Body," "The Great Physician and His Power to
						Heal," "Behind the Prison Bars," "Boy's Companion," "Ordinances of the Bible,"
						etc., etc.
				
				
				ILLUSTRATED


				
					ANDERSON, INDIANA, U. S. A.
					
					
						GOSPEL TRUMPET COMPANY.
					
					
					
						1905.
					
				

			

			

			

				Verso

				COPYRIGHT, 1903, By E. E. BYIRUM.
			

			

			

				Preface.
				

				PEOPLE travel and afterwards write and tell what they have seen and
					heard. The tour in "other lands" was not made for the purpose of writing a book; and as
					but a few days were spent at any place while traveling about forty thousand miles, the
					reader will not expect to find in this volume a complete history of the countries.
					Furthermore, it was written in the midst of the most pressing editorial and office
					work.

				While it gives an account of a tour around the world, it is not a history of the world.
					This tour was not made merely because of a desire to travel, but by the direction of the
					Lord, of which the reader will learn by reading the accounts given.

				Most people who read this may never have the privilege of visiting the countries
					mentioned; therefore an effort has been made to present to their minds some facts, and
					experiences encountered along the way, that will at least give a faint idea of these lands
					and peoples, with their manners and customs, religions, and some of the general
					conditions, and peculiarities that are to be seen as they exist to-day. The illustrations
					are nearly all from original photographs.

				Where extended accounts are given of past events and places, it is generally for some
					special purpose. For instance, the insertion of Pliny's letters to Tacitus and the other
					accounts concerning the eruption of Mount Vesuvius and the destruction of the cities of
					Herculaneum and Pompeii, A. D. 79, are to acquaint the reader with these places and
					occurrences, that other truths may be more  vividly portrayed
					to the mind. As these cities remained buried for many centuries, and in recent years have
					been excavated, there have been found among those ruins of apostolic days not only signs
					of gross wickedness, but strong evidences of Christianity. Also, old manuscripts have been
					unearthed written in uncial, or the same style of writing as are the oldest manuscripts of
					the Bible that have been discovered elsewhere.

				Frequent and liberal quotations have been made from other writers and authors, among whom
					the author desires to acknowledge his indebtedness to Brother A. D. Khan and Sister N.
					Evalyn Nichols for quotations from some articles previously published. Also, to Kitto,
					Schaff, Hastings, and others, regarding the history and fall of Jerusalem and other
					subjects. In most places no quotation-marks are used, or credit given, as the quotations
					are frequently intermingled with the language of the author.

				This volume is by no means given as a production worthy of literary commendation; yet it
					is hoped that the reader will be able to glean some helpful thoughts on travel, history,
					and religious experience, that may prove beneficial in after-life. With a prayer that the
					rich blessings of the Lord may be bestowed upon the reader, I remain,

				Yours in Him,

				February 11, 1905.
					E. E. Byrum.
			

			

			

				Contents.

				

				PAGE

				
					Home Experiences
						19
					Entering the Publishing Work
						23
					Gospel Work and Divine Healing
						26
					A Trip to the Pacific Coast
						34
					Proposed Trip to Honolulu
						40
					A Call to Foreign Fields
						50
					A Farewell Letter
						56
					Time-table of Travels
						60
					Leaving Home
						61
					Sailing on the Atlantic Ocean
						64
					From England to Africa
						70
					A Trip into the Interior of Africa
						81
					The Head-choppers of North Africa
						87
					Devil-dancers in West Africa
						88
					The Work of the Kidnappers
						89
					The Bull-pens of Spain
						91
					Christianity in England
						94
					Examining Manuscripts of the Bible
						101
					How We Got Our Bible
						109
					From England to Italy
						138
					Among the Alps-- A Poem
						144
					Venice-- A City with Streets of Water
						146
					The City of Rome
						148
					The Catacombs
						154
					The Vatican-- The Home of the Pope
						156
					Performing Their Religious Rites
						159
					Kissing St. Peter's Toe
						162

					

					PAGE

					Indulgences
						165
					Deceptions and Superstitions
						166
					Beheading of St. Paul
						167
					Ruins of Pompeii
						169
					A Volcanic Eruption
						172
					Pliny's Letters to Tacitus
						173
					Finding of Pompeii
						180
					Other Eruptions
						185
					A Visit to Mount Vesuvius
						186
					From Italy to Egypt
						190
					The Sphinx 199
					The Pharaohs of Egypt
						199
					Manners and Customs in Egypt
						205
					From Egypt to the Holy Land
						216
					Entering the Holy Land 225
					The Plain of Esdraelon
						231
					From Nazareth to the Sea of Galilee
						233
					The Sea of Galilee
						248
					From Nazareth to Jerusalem
						263
					Leaving the City of Shechem
						278
					Jerusalem
						292
					History of Jerusalem
						296
					The Fall of Jerusalem
						311
					The City of To-day
						332
					The Jews' Wailing-place
						339
					The Temple Grounds
						344
					The Church of the Holy Sepulcher
						350
					The Pool of Bethesda
						254
					The Tombs of the Kings
						356
					Solomon's Quarries
						358
					Mount of Olives
						359
					The Garden of Gethsemane
						361
					The Brook Kedron
						365
					Calvary
						367

					

					PAGE

					The Garden Tomb
						369
					Bethany-- The Home of Mary and Martha
						370
					Aceldama-- The Potter's Field
						372
					The Pool of Siloam
						374
					Siloam-- The Leper Town
						376
					The Ash-heap
						379
					Bethlehem
						381
					Solomon's Pools
						383
					The Dead Sea
						387
					The River Jordan
						391
					The American Colony
						395
					Religious Conditions of Palestine
						400
					Some Customs among the Mohammedans
						407
					Jaffa-- Joppa
						410
					A Sand-storm on the Desert
						415
					The Red Sea
						415
					Arrival at Bombay, India
						419
					Camp-meeting in Calcutta
						437
					The Man who had Never Heard of Jesu
						441
					Opposition of Missionary Societies
						444
					A Visit to Assam
						447
					Among the Devil-worshipers
						451
					Casting out Devils
						460
					Shillong
						468
					Darjeeling, North India
						478
					The Tibetan Prayer
						481
					The Prayer-wheels
						484
					Bogra
						488
					Visit to Lahore
						493
					The Land of Famine
						500
					An Address in Behalf of the Sufferers
						503
					Home for India's Widows
						511
					Hindu Idol-worship
						516
					Seclusion of Women
						520

					

					PAGE

					The Great Banyan-Tree
						525
					The Farewell Meeting
						525
					Homeward Bound
						527
					Hong-Kong, China
						534
					Religious Services on the Ship
						542
					Meeting a Higher Critic of the Bible
						548
					A Typhoon
						557
					Japan
						557
					A Long Day
						565
					Hawaiian Islands
						566
					America-- San Francisco
						569
					From California Home
						570
					Oppositions to the Truth
						573
					An Arrest for Manslaughter
						574
					Answers to Prayer
						591
					Ancient Mound at Moundsville, W. Va., U. S. A.
						596
					Conclusive remarks
						599
				
			

			

			

				Illustrations.

				

				PAGE

				
					Author's Portrait
						Frontispiece.
					E. E. Byrum and Daundhter Birdie Ruth in Oriental Dress
						41
					Missionaries Stopping Near the Pyramids
						51
					A. D. Khan
						59
					Steamship Lucania on the Atlantic Ocean
						65
					Gibraltar-- The Great English Fort
						73
					A Soudanese Boy-Africa
						77
					A Camel and Her Young-- Morocco, North Africa
						86
					Library Room of the Vatican-- Rome
						107
					Samaritan Pentateuch
						113
					A Page of Sinaitic Manuscript
						119
					Facsimile-- Codex Sinaiticus
						125
					The Bridge of Time from A. D. 100 to 340
						129
					A Street Scene in Venice
						143
					The Rialto-- Venice
						145
					The Last Prayer-- Colosseum-- Rome
						147
					The Colosseum of To-day-- Rome
						149
					The Catacombs-- Rome
						151
					The Catacombs-- Rome
						153
					The Catacombs-- Rome
						155
					Palace of the Vatican-- Rome
						157
					Skulls of the Capuceian Convent-- Rome-- Seventeenth Century
						161
					Statue of St. Peter-- Rome
						163
					Panorama of the Pompeii Excavations
						182
					The Herculaneum Gate as It is To-day
						184
					The Temple of Fortune-- Pompeii
						184

					

					>PAGE

					An Egyptian God
						189
					Egyptian Mummies
						192
					Egyptian Bedouin, Native, and Camels
						194
					Crocodile Hunters on the River Nile
						196
					Looking up the N. E. Corner of the Great Pyramid where
						Tourists Ascend-- Egypt
						198
					The Sphinx-Near Cairo, Egypt
						200
					Rameses II.-- The Pharaoh who Oppressed the Children of
						Israel
						202
					Mohammedan Women
						206
					Water-carriers
						208
					Egyptian Women and Girls Carrying Water
						210
					Scene of River Nile-Near Cairo, Egypt
						214
					Egyptian Women Grinding Corn
						217
					The City of Sidon
						220
					The City of Tyre on the Mediterranean Coast
						222
					Haifa and Mount Carmel
						224
					American Gang-plow-- Turns Ten Feet of Soil at One Time
						226
					Place of Sacrifice-- Mount Carmel
						228
					Harvesting in the Holy Land
						230
					The City of Nazareth
						232
					Cana of Galilee
						234
					Tiberias-- Sea of Galilee
						236
					Ruins of Capernaum-- Shore of Galilee
						239
					Site of Bethsaida
						241
					Fishing on the Sea of Galilee
						243
					Bedouin Encampment in the Valley of Achor
						245
					Safed-- "A City Set on a Hill."
						249
					Oriental Irrigation Wheel
						251
					A Band of Bedouins-- Palestine
						253
					Fisherman Mending Their Nets
						257
					Bedouin Warriors
						260
					Village of Emmaus
						262
					The Virgin's Fountain-- Nazareth
						264

					

					>PAGE

					Native Village-- Palestine
						266
					Village Oven
						268
					A View of Jenin
						270
					Nablous and Mount Ebal
						272
					Gilgal-- Place Where Manna Ceased
						275
					Place of Sacrifice on Mount Gerizim
						277
					Jacob's Well near Nablous-Ancient Shechem
						279
					St. Paul's Wall-- Damascus
						281
					Field of Boaz-- Near Bethlehem
						285
					Grand Colonade of Samaria
						287
					Bethel-- Place of Jacob's Dream
						289
					Jacob's Well
						291
					Panorama of Jerusalem
						293
					Natives Eating Dinner
						295
					Rachel's Tomb-- Near Bethlehem
						299
					A Group of Beggars-- Jerusalem
						301
					"The Grass of the Field"
						305
					Two Women Grinding at the Mill
						310
					Group of Lepers
						315
					Shepherds and the Sheep
						319
					Tomb of Lazarus
						323
					Threshing-floor
						327
					Jerusalem from Scopus
						329
					Market Scene near the Jaffa Gate-- Jerusalem
						331
					Gate of Christ's Triumphant Entry
						333
					Wilderness of Judea
						335
					David's Tower-- Jerusalem
						337
					The Jews' Wailing place
						340
					David's Street-- Jerusalem
						342
					Mosque of Omar from the South
						345
					Solomon's Stables-- Under Temple Grounds
						347
					Arch of Ecce Homo
						349
					Tombs of the Kings
						355
					Damascus Gate-- Jerusalem
						357

					

					PAGE

					Mount of Olives
						360
					The Garden of Gethsemane
						362
					Gethsemane
						364
					Old Olive-tree in Gethsemane
						366
					The Garden Tomb-- Near Calvary
						368
					The Garden Tomb-Interior-- Place of Resurrection
						371
					Village of Bethany-- Home of Mary and Martha
						373
					Pool of Siloam
						375
					Village of Siloam
						377
					Bethlehem
						380
					Market-place in Bethlehem
						382
					Christmas Day in Bethlehem
						384
					General View of Pools of Solomon
						386
					Good Samaritan's Inn-- On the Road to Jericho
						388
					The Dead Sea
						390
					The River Jordan
						392
					Modern Jericho
						394
					View of Ancient Jericho
						396
					Cemetery-Damascus
						399
					Franciscan Monks-- Latins
						401
					Moslem Sheiks and Effendis
						403
					Jews of Jerusalem
						405
					Bethlehem Women at Home
						409
					Through the Rocks-- Jaffa
						411
					House of Simon the Tanner-- Joppa
						412
					The Harbor of Jaffa-- Joppa
						414
					Suez Canal-- Between Mediterranean and Red Seas
						416
					Oriental Woman-- Head-dress
						421
					Botanical Gardens-- Calcutta
						423
					View of Calcutta
						425
					A Cocoanut-tree
						427
					Elephant at Work
						431
					A Bengali Hymn
						433
					Orang-Utan-- India
						435

					

					PAGE

					Bullock Cart and Driver in Siam
						439
					Nomadic Tribe of Bengal
						443
					Native Boats on the River-- India
						448
					Coolies Breaking Stone
						450
					Training a Bear
						453
					A Trained Elephant
						455
					A Hymn in the Khasi Language
						459
					Witch of Ghoom
						461
					A Tibetan Priest Casting out Evil
						463
					A Dandy for Carrying People
						465
					Nepaly Cooly Woman
						467
					Manner of Carrying Stone-- Nepaly Workmen
						469
					A Village Market in the Khasi Hills
						471
					A Road-sweeper
						473
					Paharia Mother
						475
					Elephant-riding
						477
					Above the Clouds in the Himalaya Mountains
						480
					Sitting Position of Natives of Northern India
						482
					A Lama of Tibet, with Prayer-wheel
						485
					Tibetan Prayer-flags
						487
					Beggar Musicians
						489
					A Bhutia Lady
						491
					Natives Making Clothes at Orphans' Home 497
					An Indian Blacksmith Shop-- Lahore, India
						497
					Sawing Lumber in India
						499
					Famine Sufferers in India
						504
					Victims of the Famine Ready for Cremation
						509
					A Reckla for Traveling in India
						513
					An Indian Hermit
						517
					A Hindu Deity
						519
					A Hindu Girl with Ornaments
						522
					The Great Banyan-tree-- Near Calcutta
						524
					Under the Great Banyan-tree
						526
					Buffalo Cart and Driver
						529

					

					PAGE

					A Group of Achenese Carrying Burdens
						531
					 A Rickshaw
						533
					Tiger-hunting near the Straits of Malacca
						535
					A Chinese Barber
						537
					Chinese Children
						539
					A Street Vender
						541
					Siamese Countryman
						547
					A Tea-field in Japan
						551
					Bamboo-groves in Japan
						553
					Japanese Nurses
						558
					A Japanese Idol
						560
					Plowing the Rice-field
						562
					Planting the Rice-field in Japan
						564
					Front View of Trumpet Horne-- Moundsville, W. Va.
						573
					Side View of Trumpet Home-- Moundsville, W. Va.
						575
					Auditorium Where Annual Camp-meeting Is Held-- Moundsville, W.
							Va.
						577
					Ancient Mound at Moundsville, W. Va., U. S. A.
						598
				
			

			

			

				TRAVELS EXPERIENCES IN OTHER LANDS.

			
		
		

			

			

				Travels and experiences in other lands

				

				

					Travels and Experiences in Other Lands.

					

					

						HOME EXPERIENCES.

						WHEN fifteen years of age, the Lord sent conviction to my soul,
							and made known unto me the way of salvation and how to get it. At this age, however, I
							was very bashful and reserved, and always had averseness of publicity. While attending
							a protracted meeting, conviction rested on me to such an extent that I finally went
							forward for prayers. But the first night I received no help. This was repeated the
							next night, and so on for almost a week. Finally in deep remorse on account of my
							sins, and the burden that was upon my soul, bashfulness was forgotten, and
							supplications were sent to the throne; at first in a low audible tone, then with real
							boldness. At last the point was reached where all was yielded to the Lord, he sent a
							witness of the Spirit that the work was done. Arising to my feet and facing the
							audience my first words were, "I am not afraid of the whole world; the Lord has saved
							me." That was about the extent of my testimony, so far as words were concerned. For a
							number of years afterwards my prayers and testimonies were of but few words.

						My father died a few weeks after my conversion. Our home was on a farm in Indiana. At
							that early age the responsibility of caring for my mother, my sisters, and my  two younger brothers, and the management of the farm, was
							left to me. As time went on my great desire was to be of use to the Lord in some way.
							But when I would consider my inabilities, my lack of the gift of speech, or gift of
							prayer, it seemed there was but little for me to. do, except what little could be done
							with my hands in doing good to others.

						I remember that not many months after my conversion, while attending a protracted
							meeting, I had a special desire to be useful in that meeting. Many times I felt a
							desire to exhort people to come to Christ, and to instruct those who were seeking the
							Lord, but felt utterly incapable of doing anything on that line. I could not think of
							enough words to give a testimony one minute in length, and used but few words in
							prayer. After pondering over the matter, a decision was made to commit to memory the
							prayer of some one else, and to use it as my own at the meeting. Returning home after
							service one day, upon going to my room, a paper was lying on the table, which
							contained one of Henry Ward Beecher's sermons with a short prayer preceding it. As the
							prayer contained only a few lines, it would be but an easy matter to commit the same
							to memory before the afternoon service. After reading it over a few times and
							repeating it audibly without looking on the paper, I went down upon my knees and
							repeated it a few times, and attended the afternoon service with a feeling of
							assurance of being better qualified for doing something in the Master's service. When
							the time for prayer service arrived and it came time for me to pray, the prayer was
							begun with real boldness, which was about as follows: Lord God Almighty, bless our
							nation, the President of the United States, the Cabinet, the Vice-President, the
							Senate, and the House of Representatives; bless the Governors of the  various States, and-- a-n-d--. That was all I could
							remember of the prayer. After some little hesitation I had to drop down to my own
							words and common language, which indeed seemed very flat to me and no doubt to those
							who were listening.

						Feeling so chagrined over my failure in the matter, it was for a time a great trial;
							but the Lord comforted me when I decided thereafter to pray my own prayers and not the
							prayers of some one else, and to be myself and not try to be Henry Ward Beecher or
							some other noted man. I decided to pray my short prayer and give in my short
							testimony, and when through to sit down and rest assured that I had done the will of
							God so far as was required of me. In doing this the Lord helped me and increased my
							talents on these lines as I obeyed him and did my duty, although he never did see fit
							to give me a gift of speech, as he has given to many others.

						This was only one of the experiences along the way. After a few years I began to feel
							the hand of the Lord upon me more and more for his work; but on account of my
							inabilities on the line of public speaking and in private conversation it seemed that
							there was little hope of my ever doing any active service in the gospel work.

						The time came when the Lord seemed to lay his hand upon me and give me a special
							calling for his work. This call came the most vividly while plowing in the field. Many
							times before there were felt the leadings of the Holy Spirit to more active work for
							God, but now it came as a direct call, it could not be thrown off. Falling upon my
							knees in the furrow, a prayer was offered to God, asking him to let me off. I would
							say, "Anybody else, Lord, but me. I am unfit for the work of the Lord; I am not able
							to compose anything to write; I can not preach, can not talk publicly or  do public work, and have no talent for private work." In
							fact, there was a doubt as to whether one talent could be claimed as my own. The plow
							would be followed to the end of the field, and there upon my knees in a fence corner
							again I would plead with God; or stop along the way behind a stump or almost any place
							to call upon the Lord for his help. This continued day after day, yet with a great
							hesitancy to yield to the call on account of inabilities.

						Having been brought up on the farm unacquainted with the many avenues of usefulness
							in the Master's vineyard, it did not enter my mind that the Lord would call any one to
							do anything else but preach. The thought was often presented that to consecrate to
							preach would mean for me that the next thing would be to go to Africa; and above all
							things it; seemed that such was out of the question with me because it would require
							the learning of a foreign language. Thus was I burdened and harassed for many days,
							and in this condition would look about trying to call to memory the bright,
							intelligent young men of my acquaintance, hoping the Lord would accept them instead of
							myself; but the Lord gave me to understand that he had his hand upon me, and that he
							meant for me to obey.

						With this came an almost irresistible desire to go to school. Just for what purpose
							was not known; but finally, weak and bashful, and burdened on account of the
							responsibilities, a venture was made to promise obedience to God, and thus a covenant
							was made with him, that if he would open up the way for me to go to school, whenever
							he called me into his vineyard, let it be whatever it would, I would go. The
							consecration was complete, as much so as if to be put into action the next day, and
							the burden was removed. Although under the circumstances at the time no Way could be
							seen open for years to come to attend school, yet almost 
							in a miraculous way there was an opening, and within two weeks from that time I was
							away from home attending school. As I now look back over my school-days and past life,
							the hand of the Lord can be seen and his wise direction in pushing me forward into
							places of responsibility and, authority all the way along, preparing me for the work
							which he had for me in the future.

						After a short time in school I was obliged to, come home on account of sickness, and
							did not return again for a number of months. During my last year in school five of the
							students formed a private Bible class, and during our Bible study we all became
							convicted for a deeper work of grace and more spiritual life and a closer walk with
							God. From the reading of the Word, we soon found that we were in need of real holiness
							of heart. During a short vacation in holidays, while visiting at my home, I obtained
							the blessing of sanctification. Upon my return to school the others also were anxious
							to obtain the same experience. One night two of them met the conditions of the Word
							and claimed the experience, and received an outpouring of the Holy Spirit. Others
							began seeking in earnest, and we continued to advance in the ways of the Lord.

						

					

					

						ENTERING THE PUBLISHING WORK.

						AT the close of the school year on the 9th of June, I started for
							Bangor, Michigan, where there was a camp-meeting of the children of God. It was not
							only undenominational, but anti-sectarian. This was the first of the kind I had ever
							attended. Here a people was met who believed in fulfilling the Word of God, and who
							believed that we had reached the time of which the prophet Zechariah foretold  when he said, "At eventime it shall be light." Here the
							Word of God was preached in its fulness. This for some time had been my idea of
							worship-all formality cast aside and pride rooted out and the heart filled with the
							praises and glory of God.

						By this time it was clear to me that the time was near at hand when I should be
							called upon to enter active service in the vineyard of the Lord, but supposed it would
							be at least two years, and before leaving the university I made arrangements to take
							another year's course of studies. Prior to this time I had read a few copies of the
								Gospel Trumpet, which was then published at Grand Junction,
							Michigan, about seven miles from where the camp-meeting was held, but had never met D.
							S. Warner, who was then editor.

						A few days after my arrival at the camp-meeting Brother Warner and others came to me
							and asked me to take the position of publisher and business manager, as some one was
							required to take the place of the previous publisher. Having never done any work in a
							publishing house, it seemed almost unreasonable to entertain the thought of accepting
							such a responsible position, and my inabilities presented themselves more vividly than
							ever. Immediately the Lord brought to my mind the consecration made while plowing in
							the field a few years before, when I had said, "Lord, if you open the way for me to go
							to school, whenever you call me into the work, let it be whatever it will, I will go."
							One excuse after another presented itself; but that consecration seemed to stand
							before me as it were in bold-faced letters deeply imprinted upon my mind, and the Lord
							gave me to understand that it meant obedience, and he would take care of the
							inabilities where there was a perfect submission to his will. After being informed
							that  to take the position meant a life of faith, giving
							my time without salary, and trust in God not only for my own living, but for others
							and the work that would come under my charge, the matter was taken to the Lord in
							prayer. After fully considering the matter before the Lord, he soon made it clear
							beyond a doubt that this was the place where he intended for me to labor.

						These responsibilities were assumed June 21, 1887, without even taking time to return
							home for a vacation. It was no doubt well that the responsibilities ahead of me could
							not be realized, or I might have been inclined to turn away from them with a fearful
							heart; but God, who knows all things, knew how to direct in these matters. Shortly
							before this I had sold my possessions, and now came a time to make use of the proceeds
							in the work of the Lord. I soon learned what it was to have not only my means, but my
							entire life, consecrated to the work of God, which proved to be the way wherein many
							tests of faith were ahead of me; but the Lord gave the needed grace and faith and help
							in every time of need.

						A few days after I assumed the responsibilities the editor of the Gospel
								Trumpet started on a western tour, holding revival meeting, and did not return
							until the middle of the next April. During this time there were many experiences of
							faith, many close places, financially and otherwise; there were many battles to fight
							for God on various lines, but victories were won on every hand. Only a few months
							previous to this time it was very difficult for me to compose a letter of two pages.
							Although having been a Bible reader from my childhood, I was able to quote but few
							passages of Scripture and locate them, and had never taken charge of any public
							services, with the exception of one cottage prayer-meeting. But now there were duties
							to perform on  every hand, new lessons to learn, and
							responsibilities to assume every day.

						The Gospel Trumpet was then a large four-page semi-monthly paper.
							There were only four or five persons besides myself to do the work in the office,
							kitchen, and home. Only a few books and tracts were published and handled at that
							time. Aside from having full charge and control of the mail, the correspondence, and
							the bookkeeping, I had to aid in setting the type, arranging the same for the press.,
							and do my part of the work in operating the press and the engine, and help in almost
							every other department of the work. While a narration of the many experiences along
							these lines would be of some interest, as well as amusing, we shall refrain from
							giving them at the present time.

					

					

					

						GOSPEL WORK AND DIVINE HEALING.

						IT was not long until I had to take the responsibility of
							conducting the cottage prayer-meetings; and having had but little experience in
							explaining and teaching the Word of God, the Lord began to increase me on these lines
							as I was obedient to his call. Soon in other meetings the same responsibilities fell
							upon me. But it was two or three years after this before I undertook to take the
							pulpit before a large assembly of people. My first attempt on this line at a
							camp-meeting was after I felt the Lord specially leading me out and giving me a
							message. Just how it sounded to others I do not know; but by this time I had been
							doing considerable writing through the papers, and there were some present who,
							knowing my position in the office, expected to hear quite a sermon. But after it was
							over one lady from Kansas remarked to another, "Brother Byrum can not talk  at all." Hearing this did not puff me up, as the saying
							is; neither did it discourage me, for I was well aware of my inabilities, and also
							knew that the Lord was able to bless my weak attempts to his own glory. Leaving the
							matter with him to bring about results, I desired not to put myself ahead to get out
							of his order, or to fail to do my d1ty, but do as he would direct.

						As the requests for prayer and for advice and help on many lines came in through the
							mail and from personal visits, I realized the necessity of having some of the special
							gifts of the Spirit mentioned in the twelfth chapter of First Corinthians, and called
							upon the Lord for the gift of faith, which was granted to me, and later I was led out
							on the line of divine healing, wherein the Lord saw fit to bestow special gifts upon
							me, which were developed and increased accordingly as they were exercised.

						The first manifestation to any great extent of the power of healing after this was in
							the case of a thirteen-year-old boy who had been sick for some time with fever.
							Another young brother and I were at his home attending a cottage prayer-meeting one
							evening. Five persons came forward for prayers for the salvation of their souls; and
							as they received the desire of their hearts, and were leaping and shouting, this boy,
							being in the same room, said that he desired us to lay hands on him according to the
							Word of God, and he believed that he should be healed. This was only a few months
							after entering active service for the Master, and at this time I had never undertaken
							to preach a sermon, and did not know whether we had any right to lay hands upon him,
							or consider ourselves elders. But remembering that the other brother had preached four
							times before this, and feeling somewhat directed to fulfil the Word of God, we
							proceeded to lay our hands upon him and  ask God to heal
							him. He was instantly healed, and the fever left him. After this, however, the enemy
							suggested that as the other brother had preached a few times, it was all done through
							his faith and none of it through mine.

						A week later, while I was at a place where a woman was sorely afflicted with
							erysipelas, another brother was called upon to pray for her. I said, "Now, Lord, if
							thou hast given me a gift on that line, have that brother to ask me also to lay on
							hands." No sooner had I quietly breathed this prayer than the brother turned and asked
							me to lay on hands with him. The woman was instantly healed. But still the enemy
							suggested to me that this brother had been greatly used in praying for the sick and
							that it was through his faith the woman was healed.

						For some time after this I was harassed in this way until finally I had others to
							agree with me that the Lord would make it clear and plain and give me a real evidence
							of his will in this matter. It was not long until the matter was thoroughly tested,
							and others healed in such a manner that there was no question as to what the Lord had
							given me on this line. Since that time I have witnessed the healing of thousands of
							people of almost all kinds of diseases. This was not given me because of my own
							holiness or abilities over that of my brethren, but was a gift from God, to whom I
							ascribe all the praise and the glory.

						In the year 1895 the Lord made clear to me in various ways that he wanted not only
							me, but also the church, to advance on the line of divine healing and the graces of
							the Holy Spirit. There seemed to be many more failures in those for whom prayer was
							offered than we felt could possibly be to the glory of God. While pondering over these
							things one night, I fell asleep and dreamed. In my slumber it seemed that the
							ministers and I and the other gospel  workers in this
							glorious reformation of the gospel, were in the edge of the lake by the camp-ground.
							Most of them were running back and forth along the edge in water from ankle to knee
							deep. They seemed to be enjoying themselves, but afraid to wade out into the deeper
							water. Now and then some of them would wade out until the water was up to their
							waists; others would call them back, and warn them against going in where it was so
							deep. Finally two or three of us waded in up to our necks. There were some loud
							protestations against such boldness and what seemed to them rashness. While in that
							depth we knew it was only two or three feet farther where the water was several feet
							deeper. I remarked to some one near by, that I had heard people say they could swim
							better in deep water, and told of my intentions of moving out into the deep. Without
							hesitating I sprang forward and soon found myself easily floating on top of the water.
							It seemed so much easier after going out into the deep that I arose to my feet and
							found that I could easily run about all over the lake, while those on the shore stood
							looking on with great fear and trembling. Then others began to move out in like
							manner, and at this I awakened.

						It was only a dream, but the Lord made clear to me through this that it was just the
							condition of the ministry and the gospel workers. They were only playing along the
							shore, and not moving out into the deep, where he wanted to show a manifestation of
							his power in healing the sick and with victory and power over devils. The Lord did not
							show me by this that he wanted us to walk on water, but to advance to a place in his
							work where we not only could realize that we were upheld by the power of God, but that
							others might also see a manifestation of the same.

						At the first general camp-meeting that year a number of 
							ministers did move out and take advanced steps, which was honored of the Lord; and
							there was a manifestation of the power of God in more cases of marvelous healings and
							deliverances from the power of the devil than had been witnessed at any previous
							time.

						A few weeks before the beginning of this meeting, I felt the Lord directing me to
							take a tour along the Pacific coast and in the Western States, visiting the churches
							in a line of camp-meetings. Here again I was made to realize my inabilities on many
							lines. At first the enemy tried to harass me over the advanced step and position I had
							taken on the line of healing, and all my spare time for more than a week was spent in
							earnest prayer concerning that matter until the enemy was completely defeated, and
							during the next few weeks I was enabled to witness the healing of many sick people of
							various diseases. Among the number of healings were the unstopping of deaf ears, the
							opening of blind eyes, healing of broken bones, casting out of evil spirits, and a
							general advancement in the manifestation of the power of God. Another thing that the
							enemy had brought vividly to my mind at the beginning of this trip was my inability in
							public speaking, but I promised the Lord I would do his bidding on that line in my
							stammering way and leave the result with him. I was absent on this trip about four
							months, and traveled about nine thousand miles.

						It may be of interest and also helpful to some reader in experiences on other lines
							for me to give a brief statement of some of my experience during those few months. A
							few weeks before taking the journey mentioned, the Lord had in various ways impressed
							and tried to show me the great necessity of a special advancement of the ministry and
							church in general. I also had another dream besides the 
							one mentioned. While it was very plain, yet it was not fully understood at the
							time.

						During the camp-meeting at Grand Junction, while there were some marvelous healings
							on the last Sunday of the meeting, some of which were witnessed by thousands of
							people, yet in the midst of this a strange circumstance took place. About a dozen
							ministers were praying for the sick and afflicted near the children's park on the
							camp-ground sometime in the afternoon, and many were receiving help and realizing the
							healing touch of their bodies and the removal of their sicknesses and diseases; but
							the work in general in the church on the line of healing was not so extensive as God
							desired it should be, and he meant to speedily show us the need of further steps on
							this line. While one after another was seated in the chair and hands laid on and the
							prayer of faith offered, two blind girls about eight years of age took their seats in
							the chair and asked to be prayed for. As soon as they sat down, it seemed the faith of
							all the brethren dropped, as it were, and vanished away, and I was not a whit behind
							them; and we all realized that we were unable to pray the prayer of faith. The little
							girls had never looked upon anything from the time of their birth. They did not know
							what it was to behold the beauties of nature. As they arose from the chair they tried
							to look around, and said: "Mamma, we can see, can't we? Can we see?" But their eyes
							were not opened.

						Others took the chair to be prayed for, but it was very difficult for us to exercise
							faith for them, even for other afflictions. Soon we had to vacate the place on account
							of another public service for children, and a number of us went earnestly to God
							concerning these matters. From that time until night my soul was burdened for poor
							afflicted human beings, also because of such a failure in the manifestation of the
							power of God.

						

						As it began to grow dark in the evening and the night services had commenced in the
							tabernacle, I went out into the grove and threw myself down on my face upon the grass,
							earnestly calling upon God for a better understanding of these things. Then came words
							something like these, vividly impressed upon my mind: 'In this case a miracle is
							required. Who in the church of God claims the gift of miracles?' I realized that it
							was God speaking to my soul, and I said: "Lord, I know of no one who claims the gift."
							Then and there the Lord gave me an interpretation of the dream I had had concerning
							these things, and showed me that he desired some one to move out on this line, and
							when the power of God was manifested the church in general would fall in line
							accordingly, without fear and with a perfect faith. I arose and at once felt impressed
							to go and tell Brother Warner about it. Not knowing where he was, I went to his house,
							and found him alone in his room. After telling him what had taken place, he said,
							"Brother Byrum, this is of God. He wants his church to advance on these lines, and no
							doubt desires you to put in for that gift." I told him that if there was any honor in
							it, I would prefer that some of my brethren have it. After talking over the matter for
							some time, we went in prayer. After praying aloud for a short time, Brother Warner
							began to pray aloud; and while he was thus praying, I silently told the Lord if he
							wanted me to have that gift to impress Brother Warner to lay hands upon me for that
							purpose. Immediately he stopped praying and said, "Brother Byrum, the Lord wants me to
							lay hands upon you for the reception of that gift." Then I told him what I had told
							the Lord. He laid hands upon me, and asked God to bestow the gift upon me. While I
							felt no great manifestation of his power, yet there was an inward consciousness that
							God had answered prayer.

						

						We afterward learned that a meeting had already been appointed for nine o'clock the
							next morning for those who desired to make a special advance in spiritual gifts and
							especially on the line of healing. When I went to that meeting the next morning, it
							was not my intention to say anything about what had taken place the evening before;
							but feeling impressed to explain two or three passages of Scripture, I entered the
							pulpit for a few minutes. I had said only a few words when it seemed I could say no
							more until I honored the Lord by telling what had taken place. After some hesitation I
							proceeded and told them how the Lord had led me and what I had claimed. A number of
							spiritual brethren and sisters had a hearty amen, and felt the need of a forward move.
							But I occasionally felt a spirit of opposition come against me from others, in words
							as vividly as if they had been outspoken, as much as to say, "I would rather see you
							work a few miracles than to hear you tell about it." And I learned shortly afterwards
							that the words were frequently actually spoken to others. A few of the brethren
							presented themselves for special prayer concerning the spiritual gifts, and some
							claimed special help, from the Lord.

						A day or two later, together with those brethren, it being the last day of the
							meeting, those two little blind girls and a crippled girl were brought to a small tent
							for healing. One brother among the number, however, was inclined to take glory unto
							himself. After prayer the children were just as they were before. We could not see
							that they received any help whatever. Then the enemy seemed to come in like a flood
							against us and especially against me. I had made a public statement and now the enemy
							suggested, "You know you do not have the gift now, as there was a complete
							failure."
					

					

					

						A TRIP TO THE PACIFIC COAST.

						Two days later, in company with Brother J. W. Daugherty, my wife and three children
							and my sister, I started for the Pacific coast. My wife was to remain with her sister
							in California while Brother Daugherty and I attended a camp-meeting at Elberton,
							Washington, and other places in the West. We were several days on the way traveling
							through the northern part of the United States, and British Columbia, and much of the
							time was spent in prayer. There were but few persons in the coach. It being a tourist
							car, there was a small anteroom at one end. This we occupied as our private
							prayer-room. We plead with the Lord to know the reason of the failure, and what was
							required of us. The Lord began to bring to my mind some reasons for the failure in the
							cases mentioned, and that one of the persons present was not where he would give God
							the glory due to Him.

						The devil still was suggesting to me that it was no use for me to undertake to
							advance and claim what I had claimed. He would suggest that I was not able to turn
							water into wine, walk upon the water, and do such like things, which was meant by
							miracles. But the Lord brought to my mind the record of the healing of the lame man as
							recorded in the Acts of the Apostles, and that even the opposers at that time, in
							talking among themselves, said, "That indeed a notable miracle has been done by them
							is manifest to all them that dwell in Jerusalem, and we can not deny it." And there
							were a number of other things on the line of healing which he brought to my mind as
							marvelous. Then I asked the Lord what to do, and desired to know more about our
							responsibilities. And the answer came clear: "It is the duty of the minister to preach
							the  Word with authority from heaven; then it is the duty
							of the hearer to believe that preaching; and when the minister is called for, it is
							his place to pray the prayer of faith. It is the duty of the afflicted one to meet the
							conditions of the Word of God concerning removing any hindrance possible, and to,
							believe for the healing." My mind was greatly relieved, but still the enemy was
							harassing with many suggestions, doubts, and fears.

						When we arrived at the camp-ground, a brother met us and said: "We are just waiting
							for you brethren; we have heard what you claimed in the East, and of the great
							manifestations of the power of God there, and we have just been waiting your arrival.
							God is working in our midst, but here are some pretty hard cases that are not healed
							yet." As we lifted our eyes, before us were the blind, the deaf, the dumb, the lame,
							the paralyzed, and those having various other afflictions, awaiting with great
							expectancy. I silently breathed a prayer, and said, "O Lord, will my faith take in the
							situation?" Never did I realize a more utter dependence upon God, nor feel my weakness
							to a greater extent; yet God uplifted me by his Spirit and encouraged my heart. Those
							around me knew nothing about the struggles through which I was passing while we were
							rejoicing together. As soon as the first short service was over and I could get away,
							Brother Daugherty and I went to an adjoining hill, he on one side and I on the other,
							where I threw myself on my face in the tall barley and for two hours prayed God to
							help and to show me positively regarding these things, and to let me know if he had
							really given me this gift. It seemed all the answer I could get was, "What is the use
							of continually asking the Lord for something you already have obtained?" I arose and
							went to the camp-ground.

						

						After the next service I went again alone before God. But this time I had no spirit
							of prayer. For about an hour I tried to pray and call upon the Lord for special help
							and a more positive knowledge; but it seemed as if the Lord did not care to hear my
							continual asking, but only seemed to bring to my mind how unnecessary it was to keep
							calling upon him for the thing that I already had. Not feeling thoroughly satisfied, I
							went out the third time. We had been putting off nearly all those special cases from
							time to time thus far, and in one way or another excusing ourselves or absenting
							ourselves from them; but we found that this could not be continued much longer.
							Therefore as I went out into the grove alone the third time, I was just getting ready
							to kneel and earnestly implore the Lord for help as usual; but scarcely had my knees
							touched the ground when the only words I could speak were, "0 Lord, I praise thee for
							what thou hast given me." It seemed my soul was filled with the power and glory of
							God, and only those words escaped my lips. Finally I arose and said, "Lord, now make
							manifest thy power to thy servant."

						Upon going back to the ground, I overheard a man from Idaho speaking to some one
							else, saying that he came to that meeting with the intention of being healed, but he
							supposed now that he would have to return without receiving the needed help. Calling
							him to me, I inquired concerning his condition. He said that twenty-three years
							before, while engaged in a fight, a man struck him on the ear, bursting what is
							generally called the ear-drum, making him totally deaf in that ear. Doctors examined
							it and said it would be impossible for him ever to hear out of it again. Just before
							going to the meeting he had a physician examine it in order that the Lord would get
							glory in his healing. As we were talking, the Lord seemed to impress me that  here was a chance for the power of God to be manifested.
							Immediately the man was told to come into the tent, and the Lord would heal him.
							Another brother whom the Lord had been using both in preaching and in practising the
							Word of God on these lines was present; and when we laid our hands upon him and asked
							God to heal him, the healing power was manifested, and the man threw up his hands, and
							said, "I can hear as well out of that ear as out of the other one." He was made every
							whit whole from that moment.

						A brother who stood in the door of the tent and witnessed the same said: "Brethren,
							we are living in the days of apostolic power. We have a boy here on the grounds, who
							has been going about on crutches, and we do not feel it to the glory of God for him to
							continue in that way. We desire that you come and pray for him." In compliance with
							his request we went immediately and prayed for the boy, and commanded him in the name
							of Jesus to arise. He threw down his crutches and started to walk, at first with some
							difficulty, but as he moved forward God sent the healing power, and he had not taken
							many steps until he was walking with both feet upon the ground and without difficulty.
							A day or two later, being anxious to know how he was getting along, while looking for
							him, I found some little children riding his crutches around for horses; so concluded
							the boy was all right; and when I found the boy, he was every whit whole.

						Then there was a woman to be prayed for, who had been paralyzed on one side for
							twelve years, during which time she was totally blind in one eye and deaf in one ear.
							She also was healed, and likewise the others who applied. The devil was completely
							defeated, and did not come around with his discouraging suggestions.

						

						At our next camp-meeting in Oregon there were a number of healings, among which was a
							marvelous case of the healing of broken bones, an account of which is given on page
							366 in the book entitled "The Secret of Salvation: How to Get It, and How to Keep
							It."

						Then the enemy took a new line of suggestions. His first was, "Now as God did this
							work, let him do his own advertising of it; you say nothing about it, in order that
							you may keep humble." The suggestion seemed to be such a good one that I thought it
							probably was from the Lord; but, with other suggestions, I soon found it was from the
							enemy, who did not want the church in general to know what was going on, as it would
							increase their faith. The Lord gave me to understand that he could keep us humble;
							that he desired to have his name glorified among the people; and that the apostles
							recorded some of the wonderful healings done in their day, and through the publishing
							of the same our faith is increased. I therefore published an account of some of the
							healings, which was truly a great help to the faith of the brethren elsewhere.

						I then decided that upon my return home I would begin a special column in the Gospel Trumpet devoted entirely to the subject of divine healing.
							Among the special articles I felt led to write was one against the use of medicines.
							It seemed from that time, as I journeyed from one camp-meeting to another, almost at
							every meeting shortly before the time came for me to preach on divine healing, I
							became sick. Then the enemy would suggest that it was not wisdom for me to talk on
							that subject, as I was not well myself. But from the experiences I had been having
							along the way with him, I concluded that he should not defeat me in carrying out the
							design of the Lord; and as I moved forward, regardless of my afflictions or the
							oppositions of the enemy, I always received the needed help from the Lord.

						

						While at a meeting in Oklahoma on my way home, one day I felt specially led to give a
							lesson on divine healing. Two hours before the time came I began to feel quite ill;
							but I knew God wanted the lesson to be delivered. When the time arrived, I started for
							the pulpit, but became so violently sick I had to stop and have the elders lay hands
							upon me. I received considerable help, but was yet feeling very weak. The enemy
							suggested that I dare not preach very strong on healing that day as I was not well
							myself. I said, "I will preach stronger than ever, if possible." The lesson was
							followed by a very precious healing service. Among those who presented themselves were
							two men-one blind in one eye, the other deaf in one ear. One had been in that
							condition for thirteen years; the other, thirty-nine. They were made every whit whole,
							and testified to the glory of God. I knew then why the enemy did not care to have me
							give the lesson.

						It was immediately after that service that a Trumpet was handed me
							in which the editor had written an article almost directly contradicting or teaching
							contrary to some things I had taught that day. He, through the influence of others,
							seemed to let down the shield of faith and rather compromise on the line of healing,
							rather advising the use of remedies, not realizing to what extent it would be a
							hindrance to the faith of those who would adhere to his teaching. He had not
							intentionally lowered the standard of faith, but the enemy of souls was working to
							hinder a general movement on this line. After giving the lesson heretofore stated, a
							brother handed me that paper and requested me to read the article and asked me what I
							thought of it. I told him that I did not think the editor desired to compromise at
							all, but he had undoubtedly started off on that line; but I could not afford to let
							down  the standard, and I would have a talk with him when
							I reached home. When I met him a few weeks later, I said, "You have tied my hands, as
							the saying is, from teaching the whole Word of God, if I permit them to be tied; but I
							can not afford to let down the standard." He said if he had let down the standard, he
							would raise it up again, which he did.

						It is the business of Satan to call in question every advanced step of the children
							of God, and to hinder and prevent in every way possible. I am safe in saying that God
							has been urging his ministers and gospel workers on many lines, and that they have
							simply let Satan defeat them through some of his wily suggestions and oppositions.

					

					

					

						PROPOSED TRIP TO HONOLULU.

						DURING this trip there was something that proved to be a source of
							considerable thought and prayer and varied experience. Two years previous to this time
							I dreamed one night that I had taken a trip to the Pacific coast; and upon my arrival
							at Los Angeles, I met some of the brothers and sisters with whom I was to remain for a
							few days, and I was preparing to go on to a foreign field as a missionary. Here among
							the first ones I met, I very unexpectedly saw Sister Caroline Robbins, who had in
							former years lived near my home, although I did not know that she was living in that
							part of the country. During my dream I thought I went to the ship landing, and I did
							not know just what ship I was to take. There were the masts of many ships from
							different countries, and I saw the long line of different ships. Near the top of one
							mast was the name in silver letters. I said, "'That is not the one." 
							
								E. E. BYRUM AND DAUGHTER BIRDIE RUTH IN ORIENTAL
									DRESS.
							
							 Farther on was one in gold, which said HONOLULU. Immediately I felt that was the one I was to take. I awakened, but
							could not fully understand what it meant.

						Two years afterward the Lord moved upon me to take the journey that has just been
							mentioned; and while preparing to start, it was impressed on my mind that probably
							Honolulu might be in the trip. This city is about twenty-four hundred miles from San
							Francisco, out in the Pacific Ocean, on the Hawaiian Islands.

						Before starting on the western tour, I made mention to my brother how I had been
							feeling for the last few days, that probably Honolulu would be included in the tour;
							but never having been engaged in missionary work in a city, and not being a good
							public speaker, and knowing nothing about the language of that country, I keenly felt
							my inabilities. Then came before me the consecration I had made while plowing in the
							field a number of years before; that I would preach, I would go to Africa, I would do
							anything; whatever he called me to do I would do. After reviewing my consecration
							again, I found it was complete and included Honolulu or any other place if the Lord
							directed; but the Lord desired to test me to the extent of my consecration, as he did
							Abraham of old.

						After arriving at Washington and having talked the matter over with Brother
							Daugherty, he had decided to go if the Lord so directed. We did not know what the
							expenses would be. We had only a few dollars, but that was not bothering so very much,
							as we knew from past experiences that God would supply our needs. We were not working
							for a salary, neither were we taking up collections, but depending on our needs being
							supplied by free-will offerings, unsolicited. One day while crossing the camp-ground a
							piece of paper was found lying upon the ground, which 
							proved to be a time-table giving the rates of a recent excursion to Honolulu. From
							this piece of paper was obtained the address of the General Manager of the Steam-ship
							Company at San Francisco. The fare mentioned on the circular was about $150.00 for
							round trip from Portland, Oregon. I said to Brother Daugherty, "The Lord must bring
							that down to $25.00 one way for each of us." And remarked to a brother that if my
							dream had anything to do with it, we were to start from Los Angeles. The brother
							laughed at me, and said, "Los Angeles is an inland town, and you can not sail from
							there." It is about five hundred miles from San Francisco, from whence the ship
							sailed. In looking over the circular again, I found that one of the general passenger
							agents was located at Los Angeles, and wrote to him regarding the fare and found that
							the fare from San Francisco was $75.00 first-class, $25.00 steerage, and would be the
							same from Los Angeles, transportation between the two places being given in addition
							free.

						We had a little prayer-meeting at the camp-meeting concerning the matter of going,
							and a brother prayed that if it was pleasing to the Lord for us to go that our desire
							to go be increased and if not that the desire be taken away. It seemed from that time
							on there was an intense desire to go to Honolulu and longing to work for God among the
							natives. While on our way southward through California we read in a paper that cholera
							had broken out among the people in Honolulu. Brother Daugherty said, "What do you
							think of that?" I told him that if only they permitted us to land there we should be
							all right. Soon we learned that the ports were closed-- people were not allowed to
							land; but this did not seem to discourage us.

						The time for the Los Angeles camp-meeting was drawing near, and we were to sail about
							the middle of the meeting.  I had never visited
							California before, but upon arriving at Ls Angeles the scenery about the depot was
							just the same as I had seen in a dream two years before. Among the first ones met
							after getting off the train, as we went into the tent where the meeting was to be
							held, was Sister Caroline Robbins.

						We were still preparing to set sail, provided the ports opened, although there were
							several things which had to be removed out of the way by the help of the Lord before
							we could go. Already a number of things had been brought about in direct answer to
							prayer. One was my wife and family were not willing for me to go. But this matter was
							taken to the Lord, asking him to make her willing if it was pleasing for us to take
							the journey. When we arrived where she was, she gave no objection, but helped in
							preparing things for the trip.

						We had written for Brother J. W. Byers to come and take charge of the meeting during
							our absence; but he answered that he was four hundred miles away, and it would be
							impossible for him to come. We were to start on Sunday at noon. On Saturday morning we
							went to the Lord in prayer and told him that if he wanted us to go, we desired three
							things. One was that the ports be opened, another that we have $40.00 more, and the
							other that Brother Byers be sent to us that morning. Upon going to the post-office,
							there was a letter with a money order for me from Michigan of just $40.00. Some one
							who had been owing me for some time had paid the money, and it was forwarded to me. We
							went down to the ticket-office, and while looking for it along the street, we came to
							a place where there was a bulletin-board giving a list of steam-ship lines in silver
							letters, but on that w failed to find Honolulu; looking over the door, there in large
							gold letter  was the word "Honolulu." We went in; the
							agent said, "The ports are opened at Honolulu." Brother Byers did not come that
							forenoon, but he came in the afternoon.

						That night I had another dream. I dreamed that we went to Honolulu, and upon our
							arrival went immediately to a certain part of the city to begin work, very anxious to
							do something for the Lord. When I came to the door of a house, a man was standing in
							front; he said to me, "You can not enter here." I told him that I came there to work
							for the Lord, and that I would begin at that house. He repeated, "You can not enter
							here; there is a man sick in this house." "A man sick?" I said; "the Lord will heal
							him." He again repeated, "You can not enter here; the man inside has the cholera." I
							then said, "Praise the Lord, he will heal cholera as quick as anything else." The man,
							being an officer, was somewhat vexed at my persistency and said, "I tell you, you can
							not enter here. If you want to work for the Lord, go back on the other side of that
							partition and work for him." I looked and saw a partition which went the entire length
							of the city, shutting off that part from the other. Going behind it, I found there
							were very small rooms or cells where I could do only private work, see one person at a
							time. There I began my work. In another part of the city was another partition where I
							could have access among the people to some extent, but could neither hold public
							meetings nor distribute literature. I was awakened and asked the Lord to reveal what
							it meant. The Lord seemed to give me an assurance that he would make it clear to
							me.

						The next morning, which was the morning of the day we were to start, we went again to
							the ticket-office, and the agent said, "The ports are opened at Honolulu, but I would
							advise you not to go now. It would be to my advantage  to
							sell you a ticket; but if you go, you can do but little, if any, work. Through a part
							of the city, where they have a line of special policeman, no one can go beyond that
							line of police. In another part of the city you can do only private work; and while in
							the other part you could go among the people, you would not be allowed to hold public
							services or distribute literature." Immediately the Lord flashed into my mind the
							dream that I had had and the interpretation thereof; that the special line of police
							was the partition I had seen, and it needed no further explanation. He also made clear
							to me that he did not want me to go at that time, thus put an end to my
							preparations.

						A week later I went to San Pedro, eighteen miles distant, where I took ship for
							Cayucos, at which place I landed after two nights and a day and a half. This is a
							small town along the sea coast. There I was met by a brother, and taken to his home
							fourteen miles away. The next day we traveled twenty-two miles over the mountains and
							came to a large union meeting-house, where there were a few brethren anxiously
							awaiting my coming. They said they were not surprised at my arrival.

						Some time before, I had written to them, in answer to a very earnest request to come,
							that I expected to go to Honolulu, and should not likely have time to visit them. They
							said that upon receipt of my letter they went in earnest prayer, and had a special
							prayer-meeting, and fasted and prayed until the Lord assured them that I would
							come.

						It was Thursday evening when I arrived. That night it was announced that on Saturday
							afternoon a special service would be held for divine healing, and the people were
							requested to bring in their sick friends that they might hear the Word of God preached
							and get faith for healing.  When the time came the house
							was crowded, and after talking for about an hour and a half on the subject of
							salvation and healing, the invitation was given to all who desired salvation or
							healing of their bodies. Soon the altar was filled, which extended across the entire
							house, and the people began to drop on their knees at their chairs. I said, "O Lord,
							what shall I do? how can I instruct all these people?" It looked as if nearly the
							whole congregation was seeking help. I asked the Lord to speedily instruct them by his
							Spirit, and make quick work of it. I gave them some pointed instruction on how to
							believe the Lord. Many received the desired help before I came to them; and scarcely
							any one required more than one minute's instruction. After those had received the
							needed spiritual help there were fourteen left who desired special prayer for the
							healing of their bodies. The first one upon whom hands were laid, before a short
							prayer was completed sprang to her feet shouting and praising God for his healing
							power. One after another in like manner received the healing touch. Finally we came to
							a little girl, probably twelve years of age. Her mother told me she was almost deaf,
							could hear only by speaking very loud in her ear. After prayer the impression came to
							me, Now act out your faith. Walking around to the steps of the high, elevated rostrum,
							or pulpit, I stood about ten or twelve feet from her and in a common tone of voice
							called her by name and told her to say, "Praise the Lord." She immediately repeated
							the words. I then lowered my voice and stepped back farther away, asking her to repeat
							the words that I should say, which she did and could hear clearly and distinctly, to
							the astonishment of the audience, and the name of the Lord was glorified.

						The next day being Sunday, a very large crowd 
							assembled. After the sermon was delivered one man arose and asked for the privilege of
							testifying, which privilege was granted. He said he was an unsaved man; yet he
							believed in religion, and he believed in God and that his work should be honored. Now
							said he, "Since that little girl was healed yesterday, I have heard it rumored among
							the people here that there was nothing the matter with her." Turning to the audience,
							he said, "I know better, and you know better. She was brought up in your midst, and
							you know that she was almost entirely deaf. You saw her tested publicly yesterday, and
							know that it was done by the power of God." He said he made no profession of religion,
							and knew that he ought to live right and admonished the people to believe in God. His
							talk was quite effectual as he was a prominent man in that community.

						Quite a number were baptized after the services. From there I went to San Francisco.
							While at that place I concluded to go to the ship landing and see the vessels that
							sailed for foreign ports. Being very much puzzled as to the leadings I had been having
							during the past, I was not just satisfied without a better understanding from the Lord
							as to why such things should be. While walking along the dock with my head bowed in
							silent prayer, I asked the Lord why it was that he seemingly led me all the way along
							to go to Honolulu, and there were many things removed out of the way in answer to
							prayer and the way opened in a miraculous manner, then almost at the eve of starting
							upon the journey he led me to do exactly to the opposite and not go. Could it have
							been the enemy leading at one time or the other? if so, how should I ever know for
							sure when the Lord was leading, and when he was not leading? Therefore I desired for
							him in some way to reveal to me positively in a satisfactory manner for  my own benefit as well as for the benefit of others.
							Immediately these words came to me by way of impression, yet seemingly as vividly as
							if they had been spoken aloud: "I the Lord God commanded Abraham to offer Isaac; I the
							Lord God commanded him not to do it, and it was none of Abraham's business, except to
							obey." This together with the witness of his Spirit made the matter so clear and
							satisfactory that I no longer questioned his leadings; but knew that he in some way
							did it for a wise purpose. It has been a source of great help to me at many times.

						I also found afterwards that had I gone on the journey, I would have been in that
							country at the time of the death of Brother Warner, the editor of the Gospel Trumpet; but as it was I arrived home a few weeks before his death. At
							that time I had been for a few years previous, office editor, but now assumed the
							duties of the editor.

						After this time I also took a number of trips, throughout various parts of the United
							States and Canada, which were accompanied by the blessings of the Lord in the work,
							and with many varied experiences, which can not be given here for want of space.

						During the past few years, as the sending forth of books, tracts, and papers to
							foreign countries continued to increase, there came, in response, many letters of
							inquiry from those who were seeking after light, and desiring advice and instruction
							on spiritual matters. In these different countries God was raising up a people to
							proclaim his Word in its fulness. Among those chosen for this purpose was Brother A.
							D. Khan, a converted Mohammedan, who was saved and brought out into the light while
							attending college in Calcutta. He began working among his fellow students and those
							with whom he came in contact, and the work soon began to speedily increase in that
							country.

						

						In 1897 we made a shipment of over one-half a ton of books and tracts for
							distribution in India, also sent two small printing-presses. Brother Khan began the
							publication of a paper both in English and native languages. About the beginning of
							the year 1903 we felt it would be pleasing to the Lord for him to come to this country
							and visit the different camp-meetings and churches of God throughout the United States
							and Canada. On the 11th day of April, 1903, he sailed for America, arriving at
							Moundsville, West Virginia in time for the June camp-meeting, after which for several
							months he attended meetings in Canada and different parts of the United States. His
							trip was much blessed of the Lord in meeting with the brethren and acquainting them
							with the work in India.
					

					

					

						A CALL TO FOREIGN FIELDS.

						ABOUT the time Brother Khan started for America I began to feel
							very much impressed that the Lord would have me visit some of the Eastern countries
							soon. For years it had been much impressed upon my mind that some day I would visit
							Rome and some other parts of Europe, Africa, Egypt, Palestine, and probably India. As
							the time drew near for his return to India it became a matter that must soon be
							settled. My wide correspondence in foreign lands was of such a nature that I was
							incompetent to meet the demands and give the proper advice and instruction to the
							earnest inquirers, because of a lack of knowledge of the manners and customs of the
							people in those countries and the situation of affairs in general. There were also
							people of this country who were feeling led to go to foreign fields, and were writing
							to us for information and advice concerning the work in those countries. We were also
							feeling that 
							
								MISSIONARIES STOPPING NEAR THE PYRAMIDS.
							
							 there was not as great advancement being made in
							preaching the gospel to all nations as the Lord desired to have accomplished; and pure
							literature was not going forth to those countries as rapidly as it should, because of
							a lack of proper knowledge and understanding of how to send it and secure its proper
							distribution. There were many other important things brought to bear upon our minds
							showing the necessity of some one at an early date visiting those different foreign
							lands, and by the help of the Lord opening up avenues where the literature could be
							sent forth more abundantly and the truth established among the different nations.

						Another thing, the higher critics and some professing Christians who deny the whole
							truth of the Bible have for years been trying to give reasons for the signs not
							following, which are mentioned in the last chapter of St. Mark and elsewhere. They
							finally hit upon a plan, that if they could deceive the people and show them that
							these things were not in the old manuscripts, their unbelief might be excused; and the
							devil saw he could lead many people into infidelity and thereby gain a good foothold,
							and thus defeat Christianity.

						At the present time there are many critics of the Bible who call themselves "higher
							critics," who have many passages of Scripture which they say are not in the original
							manuscripts. We had met this matter before by publishing the facts of the case through
							the Trumpet; but some would say, "What do they know about it? They
							have never seen the manuscripts, and the critics have seen them." Therefore we felt
							that it would be pleasing to God, while we were traveling through those countries that
							we should visit the museums and libraries where those manuscripts are kept and examine
							them.

						

						At a camp-meeting at Claypool, Indiana, in August, 1903, the matter of such a
							proposed trip was mentioned to a great number of ministers who were present, for their
							advice and prayers; and later at an assembly at Moundsville in November. At that time
							it had developed very clearly that it was the will of God for me to accompany Brother
							Khan on his return home, and all the ministers felt the conclusion was reached by the
							direction of the Lord. It was decided that such a tour would take at least eight
							months.

						There were several things of importance to be taken into consideration. I had
							constantly been crowded with my work and office responsibilities, and some one had to
							be found to assist or take charge of my office work. Knowing that it would be quite
							expensive to travel about forty thousand miles and be absent about eight months and no
							money at hand to take the trip was another item to be considered. I had also recently
							obligated myself to pay $100.00 on the Office indebtedness, of which amount not one
							cent was yet paid. My wife and children were not reconciled to my going. By the time
							arrangements could be made we should be obliged to cross the ocean in mid winter,
							during the most stormy period of the year, and arrive in India at the beginning of the
							hot weather, to remain during the hottest months. With these things and many others
							facing me and a deep burden for precious souls, I went to the Lord in earnest prayer.
							For three days and nights I fasted and prayed, not so much to know the will of God
							concerning my going, as the Lord had already settled that in my mind, but that these
							other things might be cleared out of the way or in some way made satisfactory. I knew
							the Lord could provide the means to go if he wanted me to go, and he could open the
							way on every other line.

						

						I was confident my brothers and sisters in Christ would be anxious to help bear the
							expenses if they had a knowledge of the same, but I hesitated much in asking them to
							do so. But I desired their earnest prayers. A brother felt led to write an article for
							publication concerning my trip, and a statement concerning the expenses, and if any
							felt led of the Lord to send anything for that purpose they should feel free to do so.
							While this may have occurred to some as almost entirely setting aside faith in the
							matter, yet I had no evidence as to how much would be sent in for that purpose, and
							had to call upon God just the same as if no statement had been made.

						At the close of my three days' fast God assured me that he would open the way on
							every line. My wife and children became perfectly reconciled and willing for me to go.
							A few hours later a brother gave me seventy-five cents, and said, "My wife and I feel
							led to give you this money. If you go to India, use it for that purpose; or if not,
							use it as the Lord directs." Knowing that it was almost the last they had in their
							purse, I hesitated in accepting the same; but he assured me that the Lord impressed
							them to give it. Some one else gave me $2.00. This was all that was received for
							almost two weeks. It was then but a short time until we were to start. I had to borrow
							money to purchase my trunk, satchels, etc.; but in a day or so the Lord had enabled me
							to pay it.

						I began making every arrangement the same as if the money was at hand.

						One morning a brother came to me and said, "Do you owe anything on the Office
							indebtedness?"

						To which I replied, "Yes, sir."

						He then said, "How much? is it $100.00?"

						"Yes, sir."

						

						He continued by saying that during the night the Lord had awakened him out of a deep
							sleep and told him to pay me $100.00, which I owed on the Office indebtedness. I asked
							him if he was sure it was the Lord.

						"Yes, sir," he replied; "it was the Lord. There is no question about it; and I would
							not feel right if you did not accept it."

						Under the circumstances I could not well refuse, as I had asked the Lord while alone
							fasting and praying to remove that responsibility if he wanted me to go, and here now
							he was answering my prayer. The brother paid me the money, and I immediately settled
							my account.

						While asking the Lord for some one to help take my work in the Office, I was much
							impressed to write to a brother; and he immediately answered that he and his wife felt
							led to come and assume such responsibilities as it was in his power to assume. Thus
							one obstacle after another was removed until the way was clear for me to go.

						In the mean time the Lord was moving upon others to accompany us. Brother and Sister
							G. W. Bailey had for months been feeling their call to the work in India, and had
							already started on their way from California, going by the way of Oregon and
							Washington and making a short stop in Chicago, and arriving at Moundsville a few days
							before time for sailing. In the mean time Sister N. Evalyn Nichols, of Los Angeles,
							California, was led in like manner, and just a few days before the time made a
							decision to sail for India.

						The time set for sailing was January 23, 1904, from New York City. Brother Khan
							remained at the Trumpet Home a few days, leaving there about a week before the time of
							sailing. Brother and Sister Bailey and little Orlen, aged nine months, were there at
							the time; and the evening  before Brother Khan left we
							had a farewell meeting with the Trumpet Family, and also ordinance service; and hands
							were laid upon those who were expecting to depart, asking the blessings of the Lord
							upon them, and imploring Cod to make them useful in his service.
					

					

					

						A FAREWELL LETTER.

						AFTER Brother Khan left he wrote the following letter to the
							brethren of America: 
								
									
										
											To the Saints of God, Greeting:
										It is with a heavy heart and deep feelings that I take up my pen to write a
											few line; of farewell salutation, dearly beloved brethren and sisters in the
											United States and Canada. As the time of my departure from the beautiful
											shores of America is drawing nearer, my feeble heart, so full of love and
											fellowship divine, is beating faster at the very thought of separation from
											those who are so near and dear to my soul, and whose pure love unfeigned and
											fraternal is enjoyed so much, and with whose hearts my poor heart is so
											inseparably entwined with indissoluble ties--

										"A thousand chords our hearts entwine Forever and
												forever."

										How true and prudent are the words of the inspired apostle-that we have been
											cut off from the wild olive-tree and grafted into the true vine, which is
											Jesus Christ our Lord! Oh, how intimately and vitally we are connected
											together as the branches of the same vine and members of the same body, with
											the same blood flowing through all our veins! Glorious union! Blessed unity!
											Indeed our hearts are knit together in love! Oh, how I have enjoyed  the blessed fellowship and sweet communion with
											the saints of God! I was asked often and again whether or not I was homesick
											while in this country, to which my only reply was and is, How can I get
											homesick when I am at home with beloved saints of God with whom I expect to
											spend eternity in heaven? Do men get homesick when they are at home? Truly,
											beloved brothers and sisters, indeed I do not have any occasion to get
											homesick while in such company, sitting together in heavenly places with Jesus
											himself. I enjoy it so much I wish I had more of it. A separation under such
											circumstances is in no way less painful and heart-rending than the one I had
											to undergo, when I left my native shore. I can scarcely restrain the flowing
											tears unbidden, at the very thought of separation for life. When I left my
											beloved ones beyond the briny deep, I had a hope of the reunion in the near
											future, and persuaded myself the separation was only for a short time; but
											alas! this my separation, is-- shall I say?-- perhaps for life. Who knows
											whether we shall meet again or not and have the pleasure of beholding each
											other's faces? I hope we shall some day; but alas! that hope is so slender and
											dim that it can hardly sustain the strain and relieve the suspense. If in this
											life alone we have hope and no more, I would be the most pitiable man on
											earth. But blessed be the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, who brought the hope
											of immortality to light, we have a strong consolation and a hope sure and
											steadfast that we shall all meet together over there on that brighter shore
											never to part again.

										"Joyful. joyful will the meeting be In our eternal
												home."

										This is the hope that sustains us under all adverse circumstances, and we
											have joy and peace in believing. Praise the Lord I!

										

										Allow me to seize this opportunity to express my sincerest and heartfelt
											thanks and gratefulness to all the brethren and sisters who showed their
											kindness and liberality to me, and yet not to me, but to the Lord and his
											cause, for their words of encouragement and active sympathies. God bless you,
											one and all. Allow me, also, to ask your prayers on my behalf that I may, if
											it be the Lord's will, be granted to you again. I am almost afraid I will get
											homesick for America after my return.

										May I further ask your prayers and invite your active cooperation in the
											responsible work the Lord has called us to in saving precious souls of the
											dying millions of that dark continent of religious confusion and superstition.
											Poor India needs your prayers. The Lord is going to evangelize India with the
											pure and unadulterated gospel of the glorious evening light. Will you help
											him? He seeks volunteers to help him; will you ask him what he will have you
											do in this grand soul-saving campaign? Finally, pray for us who are going to
											that land to preach the full gospel, that we may go with the fulness of the
											blessings of Christ, and that we may be kept clean and in pure channels only,
											and that the blessings of heaven may flow through us and the gospel of the
											grace of God may have a free course, and that he keep us humble.

										
											"If you should never see my face again,
											Pray for my soul. More things are wrought by prayer
											Than this world dreams of. Wherefore, let thy voice
											Rise like a fountain for me night and day.
											For what are men better than sheep or goats
											That nourish a blind life within the brain,
											If, knowing God, they lift not hands up there
											Both for themselves and those who call them friend?
											For so the whole round earth is every way
											Bound by gold chains about the feet of God.
											But now farewell."
											"God be with you till we meet again."
										


										

										
											Yours in Christ
												A. D. Khan
										

										

										With much holy love, I remain your brother and servant in his cause for poor
											India's dying millions,
										
											A. D. Khan.
										
									
								
							
						

					
					

					

						TIME-TABLE OF TRAVELS.

						THE following list was prepared for those desiring to know
							something about the time we would be at certain places and countries, which was as
							near complete as we could arrange at that time:

						
							Leave New York, UI S. A., January 23, 1904.
							 " Liverpool, England, February 1.
							 " Tangier, Morocco, North Africa, February 15.
							 " London, England, February 22.
							 " Rome, Italy, March 7.
							 " Port Said, Egypt, March 15.
							 " Jerusalem, Palestine, April 5.
							 " Bombay, India, April 17.
							Arrive Calcutta, India, April 21.
						

						Will receive mail at--

						
							London, England.
							Tangier, Morocco, North Africa.
							Rome, Italy.
							Port Said, Egypt.
							Jerusalem, Palestine.
							Calcutta, India.
						

						Address all communications care of POSTE RESTANTE.

						
							Approximate time required in transit of mails:
							From New York to London 7
								days.
							 " New York to Rome 12 days.
							 " New York to Tangier 14
								days.
							 " New York to Port Said 15
								days.
							 " New York to Jerusalem 15
								days.
							 " New York to Calcutta 30
								days.
						

						

						Thin paper should be used in writing. Postage of letters, five cents for every
							one-half ounce or fraction thereof.

						
							SAMPLE OF ADDRESS.
						

						This time-table with some further instructions were printed on cards, which also
							contained other places along the way where stops were to be made.
					

					

					

						LEAVING HOME.

						WORDS can not express the feelings of my heart as the time came to
							bid adieu to my dear family, the workers at the Office and Trumpet Home, brethren and
							friends of my native land, to go forth into foreign lands among strange people and
							strange languages and face the dangers of sea and land. But these things were counted
							as but small matters in comparison with the responsibilities connected with such a
							trip. The most impressive thought to me was, Can I fulfil the mission my Lord and
							Savior has directed me to fulfil? I was aware that it would have the appearance to
							some as that of a pleasure trip, an unnecessary expense, and seeking fame; but I
							realized that those who understood the necessity and responsibilities, and who would
							take the matter to the Lord in earnest submissive  prayer
							in the light of rescuing precious soul, had no such thoughts.

						The short trips previously taken through various parts of the country had been of
							untold value on account of the varied experiences gone through, which aided in
							preparing me to help precious souls in time of trouble and in giving advice to
							brethren who met with different cases and things in their field-work. It was not my
							mission to hold a series of meetings in the many places to be visited, as that was not
							my calling on this trip.

						At 2 P. M. Thursday, January 21, 1904, the time came to bid farewell to wife and
							children, then to the faithful workers at the Trumpet Office and Home. It was hard to
							break loose from those with whom we were so closely bound by natural ties and holy
							fellowship.

						After our farewell greetings, in company with Brother Bailey and wife and infant son,
							we started on our journey to New York City. On the train we met Brother W. W. Titley
							and wife. They had been in the evangelistic work in Ohio, but were now on their way to
							Pennsylvania. At Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, Brothers McCreary and Pollock met us at the
							depot. Leaving Pittsburg at ten o'clock at night, our train reached Jersey City, New
							Jersey, just before noon the next day, it being late. Our baggage was checked for
							Twenty-third Street Station, New York. At Jersey City the western trains stop, and
							passengers for New York go aboard the large ferry-boats crossing the river. Instead of
							crossing over at New York we went by street-car to Hoboken, New Jersey, a distance of
							about four miles, to the home of Brother Blewitt, where we were to remain until the
							next morning. Here we met Brother Khan, Brother J. W. Daugherty, and others, and held
							a meeting that night in Hoboken. Sister Nichols had not 
							yet arrived. She telegraphed from Moscow, Idaho, stating that she did not think she
							could arrive at New York in time to sail by January 23d, and asked if we could wait
							until the 27th. A message was sent to her telling her to come without delay, and that
							passage was already secured for her as far as London. It being midwinter and trains
							liable to be snow-bound in the Northwest, we realized that God would have to almost
							miraculously open the way for her to arrive in time. She had also sent another
							telegram from Spokane, Washington, saying she would arrive in New York at 7:40
							Saturday morning. About two o'clock Saturday morning another message was received from
							Buffalo, New York, stating that she would probably arrive at New York City at five or
							seven o'clock. Many prayers had been offered that God would speed the train and give
							her wisdom in choosing the right one. Some of the brethren went to the morning trains,
							but did not find her.

						We went aboard the ship, which we were told would sail promptly at nine o'clock. As
							the passengers were hastening up the gangway, she failed to be among the number. Soon
							the gangway to our part of the ship was taken up and a partition drawn, which
							obstructed our vision and cut off all connection with the vessel from that end of the
							pier. We went to our cabins and held a few minutes' prayer-meeting, asking God to hold
							the vessel. An officer of the ship was asked if they could not hold the ship there for
							a few minutes at least. The reply was emphatically, "No! When nine o'clock comes this
							ship sails. Nothing can hold this ship, as it is a mail-steamer." But nine o'clock
							came and the ship did not move. Ten minutes passed by, then twenty, and it was still
							there. Two of the company went into the cabin in earnest agreement of prayer, and
							said, "Lord, do not let this ship move until  Sister
							Nichols comes." Before another ten minutes passed by, here she came walking down the
							hallway of the ship, praising the Lord. Her ticket, however, had been given to Brother
							Blewitt and Brother Daugherty at nine o'clock, that they might deliver it to her; but
							as the partition of the dock had been closed for half an hour, cutting off all
							communication with them, we did not suppose they remained there any longer. All we
							could do was to ask God to send them to another part of the ship, where a gangway was
							yet open. As we walked down to the foot of this gangway, here we met the two brethren
							with the check, as we were about to telegraph the agent with instructions concerning
							it. It seemed the Lord had directed the whole matter and everything was properly
							arranged, and in a few minutes the vessel began to move. We were told that because of
							the heavy fog they did not start earlier. Under such circumstances they usually left
							the pier at the appointed time, and waited outside at the mouth of the river; but at
							this time God made them wait at the pier.
					

					

					

						SAILING ON THE ATLANTIC.

						IN traveling from one country to another it is frequently
							necessary for a person to obtain a passport from his own country. A passport is a
							certificate or paper given by the government, giving a description of the person to
							whom it is given, which will aid him in identifying himself in foreign countries, and
							also often enable him to obtain proper recognition and receive protection. Some of our
							company had obtained their passports before sailing, while others had not, but had to
							make application through the American Consul at Liverpool. It is best for a person 
							
								STEMPSHIP LUCANIA ON THE ATLANTIC OCEAN.
							
							 before leaving to secure the passport in America.
							Application, accompanied with a fee of $1.00, is made to the Secretary of the United
							States at Washington, D. C. First make application for a blank, which upon receipt is
							to be filled out and sent, and the passport will then be mailed to the applicant.

						About eleven o'clock on Saturday morning, January 23, 1904, we lost all trace of
							land, and were out upon the bosom of the ocean. We were all upon the promenade-deck to
							take our farewell glimpse of the American shores, and at the same time take a little
							survey of the steamer. It was the Lucania, one of the fastest
							steamers of the Cunard Steamship Company. It has four decks: the main-deck; the
							saloon-deck; the upper deck, where the dining-room is located; and the promenade-deck,
							where are the ladies' parlor and gentlemen's buffet smoking-room. This ship is six
							hundred and twenty feet in length, and like a four-story building, with deep basement
							below. It being the stormiest time of the year, there were not so many passengers as
							usual. There were four hundred steerage passengers down below on main-deck, eighty in
							second cabin, and one hundred and fifty in first-class. We traveled at the rate of
							four hundred and sixty miles a day.

						The first part of the journey was smooth, with beautiful weather. By Tuesday the sea
							became pretty rough, and the large vessel began to roll from side to side. After
							Saturday evening many of the passengers were affected with seasickness. We all had a
							slight touch of it, except the baby and Sister Nichols. The third day at sea, in the
							afternoon, passengers were ordered off the deck to avoid their being swept overboard
							by the heavy waves of the sea, which occasionally swept over the ship at that time.
							From that time, with the exception of one day, the gale increased,  and the waters were more violent until after we reached
							the Irish Sea.

						Probably it was not what sailors would consider a violent storm, although some who
							had crossed many times said it was worse than they had ever witnessed before. Words
							and pen can not describe the grandeur and sublimity of the ocean in a storm. The waves
							over the face of the deep were at first like foot-hills to distant mountain ranges.
							The waters were in a great turmoil, and would rise in great heaps, and sometimes burst
							at the top with a magnificient spray ascending, giving it the appearance of a volcano
							in action. At times there were great mountains of water on both sides of us and
							behind, and we were in a deep valley; but, like the children of Israel crossing the
							Red Sea, the Lord did not permit the waters to destroy us. In a few minutes our huge
							vessel would be wafted high in the air, as if located on a small mountain with valleys
							round about. At times the great waves would sweep over the ship sending many barrels
							of water at a time down the huge hatchways. At one time the doors were left open or
							burst open in some way, and the water came rushing down the stairways through the
							halls, by our cabin door, giving the hallways the appearance of a river overflowing
							its banks. But the doors were hurriedly fastened before another wave could reach us.
							As the ship rolled from side to side the water rushed back and forth down the hallways
							and the stairs, and servants hurriedly dipped it up, took up the carpets, and soon had
							things in order again. For two nights a crew of men were constantly bailing water out
							of the ship.

						It was interesting and quite often amusing to be in the dining-room at meal-time. The
							legs of the tables and stools or chairs were all fastened to the floor. In fact,
							almost  every piece of furniture in the room had to be
							fastened down. The table was covered with a frame of small panels of woodwork about
							fourteen by twenty-two inches and three inches in depth. In these small panels were
							placed the plates, cups, and other dishes, and the eatables. The framework of panels
							was fastened to the table, and was for the purpose of preventing the dishes from
							sliding off the table. But while the billows were rolling, tossing the ship from side
							to side, the ends of the table being towards the sides of the ship, there was a
							considerable amount of moving the dishes back and forth. During the stormy time the
							vessel would seem to gently lie down upon its side, and those sitting at the table
							would brace themselves with their feet and hold to the table with one hand, and try to
							hold the dishes in the panel before them with the other. Then there would be a gentle
							upheavel of the waters beneath, and the top of the ship would be carried over on the
							other side, and the dishes were inclined to slide to the other end of the panel and if
							not held in their places would sometimes slip over the top of the panels into the next
							place and sometimes off on the floor. The waiters were accustomed to walking, and
							under such circumstances could take a tray of dishes while they walked at an angle of
							almost forty-five degrees, straightening up as the vessel moved from side to side. But
							most of the passengers in walking to and fro had to hold to tables or grab almost
							anything within their reach. Sometimes a pile of dishes would tumble over from the
							table or cupboard and fall down with a crash. While the waves were thus rolling and
							the ship tossing, Brother Bailey remarked, "This ship will not go down; there are a
							thousand prayers hooked on to it." "Yes, ten thousand," we replied. We knew that the
							brethren everywhere who knew of our voyage were sending 
							up prayers for our safety; consequently we were not in the least alarmed.

						Among the passengers was a young man from Kansas City, who was going to England to
							see his mother. He was very sick with consumption and diabetes. The steward attending
							him became somewhat alarmed regarding his condition as to whether he would outlive the
							voyage. He came to us desiring that we visit the young man at his room. He said the
							man was in a critical condition and would likely be buried at sea, and if not, as soon
							as he touched land he would die. We visited him and found that he was a Roman Catholic
							and that he had been in the liquor business for four years. In answer to an inquiry
							concerning his soul, he tried to persuade us that he was all right and did not need
							the prayers of any one. However, after talking with him for a time, he consented to
							let us pray for him, which we did, asking the Lord to have mercy on his soul and to
							raise him up that he might be able to meet his friends, and give his heart to God. In
							a day or two after we had prayer for him he was able to go to the dining-room and take
							his meals, and upon our arrival at Liverpool he was able to go out without any
							assistance. Truly the Lord had compassion upon him.

						As the money for my trip had not yet been received, and we were expecting to receive
							it after arriving at London, I was asking the Lord to supply me with enough money to
							pay my expenses while in England. We were then in mid-ocean. As I went to the
							reading-room, a lady whom I had never seen before learned that we were missionaries,
							and came where we were. I noticed she had something in her hand. After a few words she
							said she felt impressed to give me something to help me along the way, and there-upon
							handed me $2.00. I realized it was in answer to  prayer.
							Thus God was true to his Word along the way in supplying our needs, sometimes from
							very unexpected sources.
					

					

					

						FROM ENGLAND TO AFRICA.

						THE ocean being too rough, we could not land at Queenstown,
							Ireland. It was about ten o'clock on Saturday when we arrived at the harbor at
							Liverpool, England. Some brethren from Liverpool and Chester we e at the landing to
							meet us; and after landing, our baggage was taken to the custom-house for examination
							by the custom-officers. We were told to unlock our trunks and open our baggage, and
							were asked if we had any cigars, tobacco, liquor, matches, etc., and as we had none of
							those things, they hurriedly marked our baggage and let us remove it. Instead of it
							being baggage any longer it was now called luggage. The railway ticket-office is
							called booking-office. The conductors on the trains are called guards.

						Our company, with the exception of Brother Khan and I, went to Chester, a city about
							fifteen miles distant, where they began meetings that night. One woman gave her heart
							to God in the first meeting. We were to come the next morning. We spent the afternoon
							and until late at night making some important investigations concerning the Mohammedan
							movement in England. It is reported in India and other Oriental countries by the
							Mohammedans that thousands of the European people are accepting the Mohammedan
							religion and turning from the Christian faith. By asserting these things as facts they
							make it a strong point of opposition for Christian missionaries who go among them to
							work. We learned that the vice-consulate of Persia, Mr. Quilliam. an European located
							in Liverpool,  was the founder or at the head of the
							movement. It being after office hours, we called at the mosque, and not finding him
							there, we went to his residence, where we were kindly received. Here we learned that
							he became a Mussulman, or accepted the Mohammedan faith, over fifteen years ago, and
							has since been an earnest advocate of that faith, and became the leader and founder of
							that work in England. They have a membership of forty of fifty in Liverpool, with an
							attendance of fifteen or twenty at the mosque. His son told us that there was no other
							institution of the kind anywhere else in England. Instead of there being thousands of
							converts among the Europeans in England, there are less than one hundred, and they are
							as far from the faith and practise of true Mohammedanism as modern Methodists are from
							the teaching and practise of John Wesley. Mohammedans believe in God, and that
							Mohammed was his prophet. They accept the teaching of Mohammed as Christians accept
							the teaching of Christ. They believe in polygamy, but one man is not allowed to have
							more than four wives, yet may have concubines. Mohammed himself had fourteen wives.
							They believe in the seclusion of women during prayers and worship, and of wearing the
							old style of Mussulman dress. However, we found that the Mussulman in England do not
							prohibit women from being in the congregation of worshipers, and they conform
							themselves to the latest English style of dress. They also have an orphan home and
							school of about twenty children.

						On Sunday morning we went to Chester, where we met the others of our company, and
							held services in a hall in the forenoon and afternoon. Here we found some who were out
							for the whole truth of the Bible. Brother and Sister Bowker were present, who had been
							for the past few years  working in evangelistic and
							gospel work in villages and cities with the Gospel Van, which was a wagon made
							especially for street preaching, also working in halls and homes wherever there was an
							opening; and precious souls were being led into the light and truth.

						At night we all went to Great George's Square, Liverpool, where Brother Khan
							preached. There were a few there who were once out in the evening light, and had
							drifted under the influence and power of a false spirit. They believe themselves to be
							far in advance of almost any one on earth in religious experience, and have but little
							confidence in the ministry of this reformation. They contend earnestly for the wearing
							of gold rings, and other worldly conformity, and oppose having a public altar, where
							those seeking salvation may come and be instructed by others. They believe in being
							led by the Spirit; but the trouble is, they are led by the wrong spirit, and will
							blindly follow their spirit even when the Lord in his Word teaches to the opposite. It
							is the spirit of compromise and exaltation and rank deception. In the name of Jesus we
							kindly warned them of their danger, and prayed God to deliver all who would yield to
							his gentle call.

						Leaving the remainder of our company at Chester to continue the meetings, Brother
							Khan and I made a short stop at Oxford and London to examine the ancient manuscripts
							of the Bible, of which mention is made in another chapter.

						In purchasing our ticket for London the ticket was to Paddington, one of the main
							stations of the city of London. It was night when we arrived. There we were, in the
							largest city in the world. Having our trunks and satchels with us, we desired to find
							a suitable place where we could remain for a few days and leave our luggage 
							
								GIBRALTAR-- THE GREAT ENGLISH FORT.
							
							 until our return from Africa. Having the address of the
							Foreign Missions Club, we secured a cab to take us to that place. It was several
							miles, and with considerable difficulty we found the place after a drive of about two
							hours. We found it to be a hotel or boarding-place for missionaries passing through.
							The spirituality of the place was at a very low ebb, formality having taken the place
							of spirituality. However, it was considered a good safe place for travelers. After
							remaining in the city for two or three days, we were to go to Tillberry Dock, about
							twenty miles from the place where we were staying, at which place we were to take ship
							for Gibraltar on our way to North Africa. From this place we set sail and spent four
							or five days crossing the English Channel and the Bay of Biscay and along the Atlantic
							coast until we reached the Strait of Gibraltar. This was a very rough voyage. Most
							travelers dread sailing over these waters on account of their generally being so
							rough.

						On the 9th of February as we were about to land we recognized the smiling face of
							Brother Fred Weiss, of Tangier, who had come to meet us, and was standing on the shore
							anxiously awaiting our arrival. Although we had never met before we could greet him in
							Jesus' name. He had secured rooms for us at the Salvation Army Home.

						We had to wait two days at Gibraltar for a boat to Africa, as we had anticipated
							before leaving London. Our stay, however, was ordered of the Lord, and resulted in a
							wonderful opening for the spread of the gospel to all nations. The Captain of the
							Salvation Army turned the meeting over to us both nights, and we had an audience of
							earnest listeners to the pure gospel. Three young men gave their hearts to God. We
							found a number here who were saved and had not joined anything, and others who were
							disgusted with sectism.

						

						Gibraltar was once under Spanish and Moorish rule, but now belongs to the British
							government. The point, or rather rock, is about three miles in length and consists of
							a large mountain of rock, which has been converted into one of the strongest forts in
							the world. This great rock has hundreds of openings in its towering sides, where
							massive guns and cannon are placed for defense of the surrounding waters. From these
							openings are hallways leading to the interior of the rock. Here a sufficient quantity
							of ammunition and food is stored for a seige of months and years. The Strait of
							Gibraltar lies between Spain and Africa, and is twenty miles or more in width,
							connecting the Atlantic Ocean with the Mediterranean Sea. Here is one of the great
							gateways to all Eastern cities as well as to the West. Battle-ships with hundreds of
							men are constantly in the harbor or passing through, besides a number of other large
							vessels bound for different countries.

						No one can remain in the city over night without a written permission from the city
							officials. For a person to neglect this makes himself and the keeper of the hotel at
							which he stays liable to arrest. The entrance of the city is protected by two strong
							walls extending along the front.

						In one sense, it seems strange that we should take a side trip from London and
							return, coming to this place and Africa only, to remain less than a week, sailing over
							the rough sea in the English Channel and the Bay of Biscay, with an expense of $50.00
							each for fare alone. But knowing God was directing in the matter, it was for us to
							obey and not to question his leading. Had we not with all assurance known that we were
							in his order and under his guidance, we might have had many misgivings and doubts as
							to how our usefulness for so short a time would equal the expense, and hardships while
							tossing o'er the billows  of the deep. But the blessed
							assurance of the Holy Spirit constantly witnessing within left no room for a doubt,
							and we realized that our weakness only made the strength of God the more manifest.

						We had been praying the Lord to enable us to find some reliable person here who would
							handle our literature and distribute it among the thousands of sailors and soldiers
							who are stationed here, and those who are located here a few days or weeks on their
							way to other countries; also to tourists, missionaries, and gospel workers bound for
							all parts of the world. True to his Word, the Lord answered prayer, and enabled us to
							find a man who is out of sectism, and for seven years has been saved and telling the
							people of the power of God to save. He has a special call and abilities for
							distributing tracts and books on the vessels coming and going. He has a small sailboat
							with a large box of tracts and literature and spends his time visiting the boats as
							they come and go. These go to all parts of the world. Before visiting him we made
							special investigation as to his reliability, and after meeting him felt sure it was by
							the direction of the Lord. He was anxious to have an abundance of literature, and
							promised faithfully to place the same before the people; and he can thus judiciously
							send tons of gospel literature to all parts of the world during the year. We at once
							arranged to ship half a ton of literature free of charge, freight prepaid, and made
							arrangement as to the best mode of their disposal in a way that they would most likely
							be read. Since that time we have been learning of the good effects of some of this
							literature, as letters of appreciation are being received from South Africa and
							elsewhere, with orders for more literature for distribution; and also testimonies have
							been received from those who have been led out into the light 
							
								A SOUDANESE BOY-- AFRICA.
							
							 of the full gospel. This literature will open the way
							for the truth to be preached in all its purity in the various countries where it is
							sent. Here and in other countries visited we found some of our books in libraries, and
							those who had read them were anxious to hear the pure gospel preached. One young
							officer in the British army had read a copy of the "Secret of Salvation" and was happy
							in the Lord when we met him and anxiously awaited our coming. He is out of
							sectism.

						Brother Weiss accompanied us to Tangier, Africa, which is about forty miles from
							Gibraltar, and took us to his home. As the ship sailed along over the sea nearing the
							shores of Africa, another scene came vividly to me. It was that of the old homestead
							farm, and for a few moments my mind was vividly carried back to the time I was plowing
							in the field when the Lord first gave me a special call to his work. It brought
							memories of the struggle concerning the work of the ministry and going to Africa. The
							words of my consecration seemed to still stand out in bold letters, wherein I promised
							the Lord years ago concerning my willingness to obey him, and even go to Africa, or
							wherever he called me into his work, let it be whatever it would. This time it was not
							merely a test of my faith, as it was concerning the Honolulu trip a few years ago as
							to my willingness to go, but it was an actual carrying out of my consecration, and
							here now we were nearing the shores of Africa with a longing desire to enter the land;
							but still the thought came, What can I do ? This part of the matter was to be left
							with the Lord for him to direct according as circumstances presented themselves. Soon
							the vessel entered the beautiful bay near the city of Tangier, where we were soon to
							land on the shores of Africa.

						Africa is a vast expanse of country, in many parts of 
							which the gospel of Jesus Christ is almost entirely unknown. During the past few years
							missionaries have been entering various parts of the country, and little by little the
							Word of God is finding its way into the interior, but little work has been done in
							North Africa. In the northwestern part is the division of the country called Morocco,
							which consists of an area of about 260,000 square miles, equal to about five times the
							size of England. It has a population estimated at eight million or more people, and is
							governed by a sultan. The sultan who was ruler at this time was a young man of about
							twenty-five years of age. His views were more progressive and more favorable to
							Christianity than his predecessor, and more so than those of a great majority of the
							people of the country over which he rules. In many districts of Morocco the people
							scarcely acknowledge the authority of the Sultan, thus causing a general turmoil and
							unrest throughout the country, with frequent outbreaks of mob violence and war.

						It is no uncommon thing, and even of recent occurrence, in time of war for the
							victors to come from the field of battle with donkeys laden with baskets of human
							heads. With great glee they bring these human heads and place them upon the gates of
							the city to be viewed by all passers-by.

						The religion of Morocco is almost entirely Mohammedanism. These Moslems hate
							Christians, Jews, and, in fact, any civilized white person; not only so, but they
							despise civilization itself. The people are dark-skinned, and speak the Arabic
							language. In the extreme north but comparatively few real black people are to be seen,
							and most of them are brought from the Soudan country as slaves. Slavery has not been
							abolished in Morocco.

						Our steamer anchored in Tangier Bay about a quarter  of
							a mile or more from the shore, and the passengers. were transferred to rowboats and
							taken to land. It was quite interesting to watch the natives crowding their boats
							together along the side of the ship after passengers and baggage. Their loud
							protestations and janglings with each other, speaking in the Arabic language, made it
							appear as if they were almost ready to fight; sometimes pushing and striking each
							other, and talking at the top of their voices in the greatest confusion. A stranger
							would think that most of them were filled with intense anger; but as soon as the last
							passengers and pieces of luggage, produce, and such like were in their boats, every
							one seemed to become quiet and peaceful. After going a short distance, near the dock
							we came to the custom-office, where our luggage was examined and marked for admittance
							to the city. Next we came to a narrow passage through the walls of the city. After
							passing this gateway, where a penny was charged for entrance, instead of entering into
							a broad, spacious street, we were ushered into a narrow, winding thoroughfare, twelve
							or fourteen feet in width, paved with cobblestones, and high walls on either side.
							This was the main street in and out of the city leading to the sea, and was thronged
							with men, women, and children, and with donkeys and mules heavily laden with all kinds
							of produce and fruit. In some places in the city the streets widen to twenty feet or
							more for a short distance, while in other places some of them are not more than six or
							eight feet in width. The buildings have a very ancient appearance.

						In the sok (market) women sit on the ground, selling bread; others
							sell fruit and vegetables. The remainder of the space was well filled with people and
							donkeys.

						As we entered this country, in some respects it seemed that we had suddenly been
							carried back to the days of  Abraham. The men and women
							dress very much alike, the men wearing gelabs, or gown-like
							clothing, with a hood attached; while the women in addition wear shawls, with which
							they keep their faces almost entirely concealed, especially when meeting any one.

						There are no railroads in Morocco. While there we did not see a wagon, a buggy, or
							even a cart, and but few modern improvements. Some time ago the Sultan and others
							consented to have a railroad built between two cities of the interior. After the. work
							had begun the people arose in a body in opposition and murdered the governor of that
							district and a few others, and threatened still greater violence if the work
							continued, and the Sultan had to order an abandonment of the work. The natives say
							they believe in leaving the country as God made it, and have no use for modern
							improvements. Public roads are not made as in other countries, but people are
							generally left to choose their way among the hills and valleys as they travel.
					

					

					
						A TRIP INTO THE INTERIOR OF AFRICA.

						DURING our short stay in Africa we made our home with Brother
							Weiss and family, about two miles from the city of Tangier. A road had been built
							there by government officials and other foreigners. Their home was situated upon a
							high elevation, as the immediate surrounding country was rather mountainous.

						On Saturday we procured mules to take a trip into the interior to visit some native
							villages. The villages are surrounded by hedges of cactus. We found no roads built
							through the country, but heard considerable about the main road to the city of Fez, as
							we had been traveling over the  hills and rolling country
							wherever we could best pick our way. We were expecting to find a good road, but upon
							reaching the nearest point found it was a place much traveled by people walking and by
							caravans, donkeys and mules carrying burdens, and in some places instead of there
							being a road they traveled in rather a general direction for a certain place. In some
							places it looked like a marked-out road. It would be very difficult to give a
							description of such a road and the kind of traveling, as there they do not work and
							improve the highways; and when the way becomes muddy and too difficult for traveling,
							a better place is sought out near by.

						After riding until after noon passing a few villages, we concluded to visit one of
							them and eat our luncheon; but as we were nearing the place, the overseer of the
							village came running out, demanding to know who we were, what we wanted, and why we
							were coming there. We had with us a native guide and a native colporteur and teacher
							and Brother Weiss. The guide could understand no English, the colporteur could speak
							but very little English, and Brother Weiss could speak and understand some Arabic.
							However, we understood that we were not wanted there. After some explanation by our
							guide we were permitted to stop at the entrance, where we dismounted, and little by
							little the overseer became less suspicious of us, and brought a mat and spread it upon
							the ground where we were preparing our dinner. He sat down a few feet away. We were
							told that if the people of those native villages would break bread with us, it would
							show a sign of friendship; but if they refused to do so, then they were considered our
							enemies, and we should have to look out for our lives. A number of dirty, ragged
							children came near where we were, and we gave them our bridle-reins to hold, and let
								 them have the care of our mules. This seemed to
							somewhat please the overseer, to know that we had paid some special attention to the
							children. After seating ourselves on the mat ready to eat our dinner, we returned
							thanks and also asked the Lord to enable us to enter the village. We took a piece of
							bread and broke it and handed it to the colporteur, and he passed it on to the guide;
							the guide in turn offered a piece to the overseer. At first he rather hesitated, but a
							few words from the guide seemed to make it all right, and as soon as he had taken it
							into his hands and eaten a small portion, he became intensely friendly. He went to the
							house, brought some fire, a teapot and kettle with some tea, which he soon had ready
							to serve all who would drink it. After the dinner was over he yet had some hesitation
							about permitting us to enter the village, as he and all who lived there were
							Mohammedans and feared that the place would be defiled if a Christian entered it.
							Finally we were permitted to visit the gardens within the enclosure, and they were
							pleased to know that we were interested. Upon our return we were permitted to go
							nearer the houses. The women and children all came out of the houses, and we were as
							much of a novelty to them as the houses were to us. Then we were permitted to go even
							to the doors, but not to enter.

						The houses are made of grass, weeds, and brush daubed with mud, with a roof near the
							ground and a small place on the side for a door. The houses have ground floors and no
							furniture. The place abounds with filth, lice and other vermin, itch and disease. We
							noticed that the hands of the children who were holding the reins of our animals were
							sorely afflicted with itch; not only their hands, but their heads and bodies.

						We also became much interested in their method of 
							caring for and preserving their grain. They had a kind of grain which had something
							the appearance of buckwheat. There was a place in the yard in front of the house where
							a hole was dug about eighteen inches in depth, three feet wide, and six or eight feet
							in length. A few bushels of grain were poured into the hole and then covered over with
							manure from the stable. When any of it was wanted for meal or bread, it was taken,
							dried in the sun, and in some way ground into meal or cooked whole, when not eaten
							raw. But little cooking is done in such places on account of the scarcity of fuel.
							After a rain the grain is taken out of these holes and poured upon a mat to dry, then
							put back again. There having been a recent rain the grain was being put through a
							profess of drying while we were there. I do not know whether it ever entered their
							minds or not to keep the grain under shelter in the house, or have a special place
							built for that purpose. There were five women and a number of children, who, we were
							told, all belonged to the overseer.

						It would not be difficult to imagine how hard a looking country it must be, when told
							they have no improved machinery or farming implements. While passing through the
							country we came to a place where there had been some recent plowing. The plows were
							left by the wayside, and they were of such a peculiar nature that we dismounted to
							examine them. They were made of some kind of a long crooked stick, to which a pole was
							fastened for a tongue, and to this some cattle had been yoked. The yoke was about as
							much of a novelty as was the plow. The plow made about as much impression in the
							ground as a harrow-tooth in our country would make.

						After leaving the village, as we returned to the city in the evening, there were many
							blind beggars by the wayside.  Sometimes as many as ten
							side by side. The eyes of most of them had been put out as a punishment for stealing
							or other offenses. It is often the case that when a person is caught stealing he is
							taken and his hands and feet tied and staked to the ground, then with red-hot irons
							his eyes are put out.

						During the month called Ramadan the Mohammedans are not allowed to eat from sunrise
							to sunset, as this is their month for fasting; and it means death for a person to cook
							and eat anything during the day in this month. At sunset a gun is fired as a signal
							for the people to cat; and during the night the people are again awakened, so that
							they may eat once more before sunrise. Some one is sent around at certain hours in the
							night to beat a drum or in some way make a noise sufficient to awaken the people. We
							met a converted Mohammedan who some time ago was frying some meat in the daytime in
							the month of Ramadan. Some of the Mohammedans learned of it, and some went for
							kerosene, and one for matches, others for stakes and ropes, intending to burn him to
							death. The prompt action of some missionaries, who came running with uplifted canes,
							saved his life. For a person there to leave Mohammedanism and become a Christian is to
							place his life in jeopardy. A Moorish boy about sixteen years of age, who has become a
							Christian, much desired to have me return home by that way in order to bring him to
							America, where he could receive some Christian training and a better education. The
							natives have scarcely any school privileges. We were told that only two persons out of
							one hundred can read.
					
					

					
						A CAMEL AND HER YOUNG-- MOROCCO, NORTH AFRICA.
					


					

					

						THE HEAD-CHOPPERS OF NORTH AFRICA.

						IN Morocco are a people called the "head-choppers." They generally
							give their performance in the more interior places, but occasionally go to the seaport
							cities. It is a terrible sight to witness their performances as they go through with
							their manifestations and maneuvers. Sometimes about sixty of them go into a city, and
							in the evening occupy the sok (market-place), which is an open place
							near the center of the city. Their performances are late in the evening or at night.
							With their great, long-handled hatchets or battle-axes in their hands and their
							strange attire, a queer dancing performance is begun. The air is filled with shrieks,
							howls, yells, and screaming, accompanied by the most weird performances and noises
							imaginable, until they are aroused to the highest pitch of nervous demonstration and
							excitement. They begin striking a certain place on the top of their heads with their
							hatchets, and continue until the blood flows freely from their faces and bodies. Then
							the demonstrations become violent in the extreme, and their maneuvers and
							manifestations, together with their horrid appearance, seem beyond that of human
							beings. In this state of nervous excitement they seem to almost lose their reasoning
							powers.

						It is said that they are kept in the enclosure, and people standing without witness
							the scene; but if a European or especially a Jew gets within reach of them, his life
							is in extreme danger. If a goat or sheep is near by, some one of them makes a sudden
							grab for it, and in a few minutes it is literally torn to pieces, and in their
							blood-thirsty state the entire animal is eaten. They devour it like a pack of so many
							hungry wolves.

						An eye-witness of one of these scenes said that the 
							women would take a slice of fresh bread and. lay it upon the heads of bloody
							head-choppers and when thoroughly soaked in blood would distribute it among other
							women and children, and the same was greedily and speedily eaten. This may seem like
							the height of barbarity, but such is the condition of things within a few miles of
							some civilized nations.
					

					

					

						DEVIL-DANCERS IN WEST AFRICA.

						FARTHER south along the western coast of Africa is an almost
							different race of people, who have many similar performances. One is known as the
							devil-dance, and is performed in the center of a large open place surrounded by
							people, and during the darkness of the night. In the center of the circle near a
							glaring light is the devil-dancer with a great crocodile's head, long grass-like hair
							dangling from his body and legs, swaying as he moves, beating time with his feet to
							the beat of the drums. Women in a double row wail and chant and strike their palms
							together with slow measure. Those in the front row bow down between each beat. Young
							men in long robes and caps wail with the women. They look dazed to begin with, but
							gradually work themselves up into a frenzy. The dark faces, the monotonous wailing,
							the crying, the thrumming of the drums, the rattling of the clackers, and the beat of
							the devil-dancer's feet, make a strange scene.

						After tribes have been at war or at enmity with each other and peace is declared
							between them, the peace devil-dancer comes leaping into the town. If he stumbles or
							falls, it is considered a bad omen, and he is put to death.

						This barbarous country is surely in great need of the gospel of Jesus Christ. We had
							the privilege of meeting  and visiting a few missionaries
							while in Africa. Those who have the cause of our Master at heart are hoping and
							trusting and praying that the Lord will send some other faithful laborers into that
							vineyard, and that the government and people may be turned to a more favorable
							attitude toward the gospel of Jesus Christ. As it is at present, they will not
							tolerate street and out-door meetings. The consuls of other governments stationed
							there can not offer protection to any one who takes the responsibility of thus holding
							meetings. The way must be opened by the Lord in some way, and can be done through
							prayer and the faithfulness of his children. Surely God will move upon more faithful
							workers to go to that country with the pure gospel.
					

					

					

						THE WORK OF THE KIDNAPPERS.

						A FEW weeks after we left there, two persons were kidnapped only a
							mile of two from where we made our home while in that country. One was an American
							citizen named Ion Perdicaris, and his stepson Cromwell Varley, a British subject. They
							were carried away by the well-known Moroccan bandit Raisuli and his followers on the
							night of May 18, 1904. As soon as it was known in America, the government officials at
							Washington took steps to secure the release of Perdicaris. A message was sent to
							Rear-Admiral Chadwick of the South Atlantic Squadron, directing him to proceed with
							his whole squadron to Tangier, Morocco. Special instructions were cabled to the United
							States Consul General at Tangier for him to act with great vigor, and to demand that
							the government of Morocco take the most sweeping measures to secure the release of Mr.
							Perdicaris, even if necessary to grant the terms of the brigands. The  men who were kidnapped were carried into the mountains,
							where pursuit was almost impossible.

						The brigand chief was a man of considerable influence and authority in certain parts
							of Morocco. Some time before this a considerable amount of his property had been
							destroyed, and upon his appeal to the Sultan for reparation his request was not
							granted. He therefore concluded to take measures that would force the government to
							comply with his terms.

						In 1903 he captured an Englishman. Realizing what effect it would have upon the
							government in bringing the condition of affairs before other nations, he concluded to
							bring about these things by awakening both the American and the English governments in
							an effective way. Some of his men had already been taken captive. His first demands
							were as follows: For the release of the men who were kidnapped, $70,000 in cash as a
							ransom of his captives; that his own followers who were in prison be set free; and
							that the Sultan of Morocco give him a subordinate kingdom, with the right to levy
							taxes throughout a region embracing thirty-eight square kilometers directly along the
							main route from Tangier to Fez.

						The American fleet was soon in the harbor at Tangier. The brigand chief increased his
							demands, and insisted upon the dismissal of the pasha at Tangier, his own nomination
							as governor of the district, the payment of the indemnity of $70,000 for the recent
							attack upon his village by Moroccan troops, and the imprisonment of the chief who
							formerly held him a prisoner.

						The United States government made their demand to the Sultan of Morocco for the
							release of the American citizen held in bondage. The Sultan expressed a willingness to
							pay the $70,000 if necessary, but objected to complying 
							with the demands from a political standpoint. For the United States government to
							press the matter and open warfare upon Tangier or pursue the bandits, meant almost
							sure death to the two men who were held as captives, and their captors had intimated
							that the men would be murdered in case such action was taken.

						There was considerable delay on the part of the Sultan, and more than a month had
							passed by when the American government deemed it necessary to take steps to hasten the
							release of the men. On June 22 Secretary Hay sent the following cable message from
							Washington to the Sultan of Morocco: "Perdicaris alive, or Raisuli dead." This spurred
							the Sultan to action, and the prisoners were surrendered to the ransom parties. When
							the men arrived at Tangier, Perdicaris was received at the town-house by the
							authorities, the admirals of the fleets, and numerous personal friends. His Moorish
							servants made a great demonstration of joy, kissing their master's hands and
							clothes.

						A few days later Morocco seemed in a more critical condition than theretofore.
							Fighting occurred daily in the vicinity of Tangier, and Raisuli was only a few miles
							from Tangier, attacking villages along the way, stealing their cattle, and causing a
							general terror and turmoil wherever he went. What the final outcome will be can only
							be known by the developments of the future.

						After remaining a few days in Africa, we again set sail for London by way of
							Gibraltar.
					

					

					

						THE BULL-PENS OF SPAIN.

						PASSING over a narrow neck of land from Gibraltar, we were soon
							upon Spanish soil, among people of a strange  tongue or
							language. When we arrived at the custom-house we saw a number of officers searching
							the people who passed through the custom-house from Gibraltar into Spain. But when we
							came into their presence, they merely touched one of us with their hands and let us
							pass on unmolested, while the next ones behind us, as well as those before us, were
							many of them thoroughly searched. We were now in the Spanish town Algeciras. The
							houses are quite ancient-looking, with tile roofs and cement or stone floors. Most of
							the houses are painted white. The streets are very narrow.

						After traveling through the city for some time we came to the bull-pens. This is
							considered a very important place in every Spanish city. The bull-pen is built like
							the wall of a house made of brick or stone. The wall is twenty-five or thirty feet
							high, and is built so as to form a circle. Each somewhat resembles the ancient Roman
							Colosseum and amphitheaters. There are rows of seats from the top of the wall down to
							another wall on the inside about eight feet high. Thousands of people can be seated
							here, who come to witness the sports. Below the seats underneath is a ground floor
							where there are many small rooms, where bulls and horses are kept and trained for the
							fight. As these animals are often ferocious, they are fed from a hole above. There is
							no cover over this building, except over a few seats. The bull-ring, or place for
							fighting, is from one hundred to two hundred feet from one side wall to another.

						When the people are seated in the seats above, and the proper time comes, the door is
							thrown open, and a man on horseback enters, sometimes also attended by a man walking;
							another heavy door is thrown open, and a large bull that has been tortured with spears
							comes tearing into  the ring. The man standing near by is
							to fight the bull or defend himself as the animal comes rushing in. The man has a very
							small sharp spear to stick into the neck of the bull if he does not seem to be
							inclined to fight. If the man is likely to get killed, the one on the horse will ride
							near to attract the attention of the animal and get him started in another direction.
							Men and horses are sometimes killed or nearly torn to pieces by the horns of the
							enraged animal. The people of Spain will sit for hours and enjoy such sport, but have
							little desire to worship God. There were no bull-fights while we were there.

						Some little Spanish boys followed us, throwing stones at us because we were
							Americans. No doubt because of their teaching and enmity on account of the recent
							Spanish. American War.

						As we sauntered around through the city, we became hungry; but as we could understand
							none of the signs over the doors of the houses, it was difficult to find an
							eating-house, for there was no other outward, visible sign. There was so much filth to
							be found along most of the streets that we questioned whether it would be possible to
							find a place clean enough that the food would be palatable. However, we soon met a
							policeman who had evidently met English-speaking people before, as he knew a few words
							of English. After some time, by many signs and movements with our hands, he was made
							to understand that we desired a place where we could get something to eat, and he
							directed us to quite a neat little private boarding-house. But again we were
							confronted with difficulties. The servant could not understand a word of English. She
							undoubtedly asked us what we would have to eat; but as we could not understand or
							speak Spanish, we were unable to tell her.  She called
							the lady of the house, but we failed to make her understand. Then the proprietor
							himself arrived, and soon we enabled him to understand that we wanted something to eat
							and for them to prepare such as they had. We had been there only a few minutes when a
							Spanish soldier came in and sat at the other end of the table and also pretended to
							eat a meal. He undoubtedly came as a detective, as we learned that all foreigners were
							closely watched while in that place. After finishing our meal we took some of the
							bread along with us as a relic. Having only a short time until the sailing of our
							vessel, we did not make any further visits into the interior of Spain. We were
							reminded of the account of Paul's visit to Spain, and wondered if the people of those
							days were so far from being religiously inclined as those at the present time. From
							here we returned to Gibraltar, and set sail for London.
					

					

					

						CHRISTIANITY IN ENGLAND.

						THE pathway of the history of Christianity in England during the
							past centuries has been strewn with blood, oppositions, and severe persecutions.
							Thousands of innocent men and women have been slaughtered to satisfy the spirit of
							vengeance and retaliation. It is not know how Christianity was brought to England, but
							for about three hundred years at the beginning of the Christian era, Christianity
							undoubtedly existed in that country. These early Christians were free from doctrines
							of Roman Catholicism and traditional ecclesiasticism of that line of the apostasy. In
							making mention of the early Christians, the English historian D'Aubigne says they
							"knew nothing of transubstantiation. ... or of auricular confession, or of prayers for
							the dead  or tapers or incense, ... and papal supremacy
							was unknown."

						The Romish power had a longing to have a governing power over England and the
							Christian people of that country. In the year 597 Augustine, a Catholic monk, arrived
							in England as a missionary from Rome. He was the first Romish priest that came to
							England. He established himself in Canterbury, and was appointed archbishop by the
							pope. His next step toward the fulfilment of his ministry was to demand subjugation of
							the British Christians to the authority and supremacy of Rome. This the British
							resented at once, and one of their bishops simply replied, "We desire to love all men;
							and what we do for you we will do for him also whom ye call the pope. But he is not
							entitled to call himself the Father of fathers; and the only submission which we can
							render him is that which we owe to every Christian." Thus hostility ensued between
							pagan Rome and the simple Britons from the beginning. Finally Augustine haughtily
							declared, "If you will not receive brethren who bring you peace, you shall receive
							enemies who will bring you war," and thus revealed the true character and the inner
							principle of Roman policy. Sure enough the war broke out between the Saxons and the
							Britons, and twelve hundred Christians were barbarously massacred while they were on
							their knees calling upon God with prayer and fasting. This probably was the first
							Christian blood that was shed in the country, and this was the beginning of the
							sanguinary stream that flooded the entire land for centuries to follow. It is
							impossible to trace the winding trail of the persistent and determined struggle, which
							cost the precious blood of thousands of martyrs and noble reformers of England in the
							cause of religious liberty and freedom of conscience, but suffice it to say that the
								 English church underwent great changes and varied
							experiences in its social upheavals and ecclesiastical revolutions, The next great
							struggle, which arose between the king and the barons of the country, and which ended
							in cruel blood-shed and extensive massacre, was through the interference of Rome
							during the reign of John. But the triumph of Rome did not live very long.

						Next came the able reformer John Wyclif to the field. As we passed through the famous
							University of Oxford, our memory was refreshed of this sainted teacher, who attempted
							the first translation of the Word of God into the Anglo-Saxon tongue, so that the
							people might read the sacred oracles, and understand the revealed will of God and
							their duty to him; for the clergy had almost banished the Bible from the land, and
							kept the people ignorant about it, to make it the more convenient to impose upon them,
							and to take advantage of their simplicity with pretentious legends and heresies,
							worship of images and sanctity of shrines, and relics of saints (so called). This
							famous translation of the Bible was finished in 1380, and copies were made by skilful
							scribes and spread over the country. Wyclif's teaching as a professor and preaching
							drew followers of the new teaching, and he sent them all over the country to preach
							the simple gospel in its original purity. These "poor priests," as they were called,
							did much for the cause of reformation in England. They went about barefooted, singing
							psalms as they went along, for which custom they received the name of "Lollards," or
							psalm-singers. These preachings and teachings made the Romish pontiff mad against
							Wyclif, and several plots were laid, and schemes were contrived to put him out of the
							way; but the hand of God protected him, and it was almost by divine interposition that
							he escaped martyrtom. It is interesting  to know that it
							was the reading of Wyclif's writing that kindled the first fire of reformation in the
							continent. John Huss was one of those who suffered at the stake for the views that he
							imbibed from Wyclif, and it was Huss who prepared the way for Luther.

						Wyclif's mantle fell upon his followers at his death, and the spirit of reformation
							did not die with him. At this juncture Rome succeeded in persuading Henry IV., an
							usurper of the royal throne, to begin a severe persecution of the reformers. William
							Sawtree, the English priest who dared to say, "Instead of adoring the cross on which
							Christ suffered, I adore Christ who suffered on it," was the first to fall victim, and
							was burned at the stake in 1401. Then followed a period of great darkness in England.
							Constitutions were passed which forbade the reading of the Bible, and styled the pope,
							"not a mere man, but a true God." Hundreds of reformers and Lollards were arrested and
							imprisoned, and were hanged or burned. During the next two reigns, namely, that of
							Henry VII. and the first part of Henry VIII., several pious and simple Christians were
							martyred. Henry VIII. at first was a bitter enemy of reformation, and even wrote
							against Luther, for which he received the title of "Defender of the Faith" from the
							pope. But later on when the pope did not yield to his carnal gratification, he turned
							from him and favored the reformers. Thus through an infamous motive the entire
							Christian community turned from the Romish tyrany and popish yoke. The whole Bible was
							translated into English by Coverdale, with the royal sanction, and the king ordered
							the whole Bible to be kept in every church, and to be read by the public. That was a
							great day for England. Cranmer was the champion of the cause of reformation during
							this period, and he succeeded in introducing many helpful and  favorable views in the constitution of England. Many Roman Catholic
							institutions and monasteries, which were the strongholds of papacy and headquarters of
							many a black deed and abominable practises, were demolished, and their benefits were
							confiscated.

						After the death of Henry VIII. his son Edward came to the throne and ruled England as
							Edward VI. He was quite favorable to the reformation, and it was during his reign that
							the present prayer-book of the church of England (Episcopal) was first compiled and
							printed. By this time the reformed Christianity of England drifted far away from the
							primitive simplicity of British Christianity. Coming in close contact with the Romish
							apostasy, they lost their simple faith, and became entangled with more or less
							erroneous teachings of traditions of men. In short, the reformed Christianity of
							England assumed the shape of present Anglicanism of Episcopacy.

						Young King Edward died in 1553, and his elder sister, Mary, succeeded him to the
							throne. Mary was bitterly opposed to the reformation, and her reign is conspicuously
							notorious for a long and determined persecution of the Protestants in England. Two
							hundred and seventy-seven persons were burnt alive for heresy during this bloody
							period. Among these were five bishops, twenty-one clergymen, eight lay gentlemen,
							eighty-four tradesmen, one hundred husbandmen, servants, and laborers, fifty-five
							women, and four children. Cranmer, Latimer, and Ridley were burnt at the stake during
							this period, in Oxford, and the very spot is identified by a high column built in
							their sacred memory. The strong monument well represents the noble firmness with which
							they sealed their faith with their own blood, After Mary, Elizabeth came to the
							throne. She was not in favor with the Romish church, so the pope  lost England almost forever. James II. was the last Catholic king that
							tried to revive Roman supremacy again in England.

						Thus ended the long and protracted warfare between papacy and British Christianity in
							England; and though the former did not conquer in the end, it left its impress quite
							visible in the latter. While we passed through the country we could not refrain from
							praising God for gratitude in giving us freedom of conscience in religious liberty in
							these days. All the great reformations had to wade through bloody rivers on their way
							to success, and how thankful ought we to be for living in a time when we can preach
							the whole counsel of God without hindrance, and can read the Word of God in our own
							tongues.

						As a mighty river, taking its rise from the lofty mountain-top, flows down the valley
							to the sandy plain, its crystal waters becoming more and more foul, being mixed with
							the dirt and impurities of the soil through which it flows; so the divine truth of
							Christianity had its origin from the throne of God, but as it flowed past the high
							apostolic region to the land of apostate medieval ecclesiasticism, it became impure
							with a considerable admixture of human tradition and erroneous superstitions.

						The only way to purify the stream would be to interpose filters of immense size to
							cleanse the dirty stream. If one would not wholly purify and restore the water to its
							original purity and transparency, each process of filtration will help to bring about
							the desired result. So we find all the former reformations by their preaching and
							teaching of the Word of God interposed in the foul stream, and each helped in its way
							to restore the primitive glory of the morning church, till at last it was reserved for
							this evening time that the church should appear in her primitive glory  again in beauty of holiness. Let us praise God for the
							great privilege of seeing the day when the earnest desires of the ages gone by are
							being realized and appreciated.

						After long and successive struggles with conventionalism and apostasy the true light
							is shining now in England, and the Lord has gathered quite a number of his own "little
							flock" in Great Britain. We had the privilege of meeting them in sweet communion and
							fellowship, and had a glorious time with them at the throne of grace. Our hearts were
							truly refreshed and blessed in their company.

						As the Word of God went forth in Chester and Liverpool, there was realized the
							fulfilment of Ezek. 34: 11-14: "For thus saith the Lord God; Behold, I, even I,
								will both search my sheep, and seek them out. As a shepherd seeketh out his flock in
								the day that he is among his sheep that are scattered; so will I seek out my sheep
								and will deliver them out of all places where they have been scattered in the cloudy
								and dark day. And I will bring them out from the people, and gather them from the
								countries, and will bring them to their own land, and feed them upon the mountains
								of Israel by the rivers, and in all the inhabited places of the country. I will feed
								them in good pasture, and upon the high mountains of Israel shall their fold be:
								there shall they lie in a good fold, and in a fat pasture shall they feed upon the
								mountains of Israel."

						On our way from Africa, instead of remaining on the ship until we arrived at London,
							we stopped at Plymouth. This was the first port we had reached since leaving
							Gibraltar, and having had a few days' experience of seasicknes, being tossed about by
							the waves, we were anxious to make our voyage as short as possible. It was night when
							we arrived in this city in which we remained until the next morning. Here is the place
							of the founding of the sect  known as the Plymouth
							Brethren. The next morning after our arrival we went on to Bristol, a few hours' ride
							by train to the orphan homes of the great work on that line started by George Muller,
							who was a man of great faith and prayer. There were five large buildings, with about
							two thousand orphan children. George Muller had been dead about six years, and the
							work at the time of our visit was being conducted by his son-in-law, Mr. Wright. The
							work is still carried on in a similar manner to that of its founder. It being rather
							an independent or undenominational line.
					

					

					

						EXAMINING MANUSCRIPTS OF THE BIBLE.

						As it has been stated, one of the objects of our mission was to examine ancient
							manuscripts of the Bible, some of which are kept in England. The first place visited
							for that purpose was the famous Bodleian Library, Oxford, England. There are probably
							not more than two larger libraries in the world than this one. Besides the several
							hundred thousand printed books, there are 32,000 manuscripts. However, there was only
							one manuscript at that place in which we were specially interested, and that was the
							volume which contains the New Testament Scriptures, and known as Codex
							Tischendorfianus IV. This manuscript is a volume in old-fashioned design, and made up
							of parchment leaves of over 1,100 years old, not printed in type, but written in large
							square capital letters of Greek, without any punctuation or division between words,
							having only paragraphs here and there. It is the oldest New Testament that Oxford
							possesses. While in conversation with a librarian we soon learned that he was a higher
							critic. and in making  mention concerning the ancient
							manuscripts and especially concerning the Gospels, he said:

						"You are no doubt aware that the last twelve verses of the last chapter of St. Mark
							are spurious."

						We replied, "We are not aware of this being the case, although we have frequently
							heard it so stated."

						To this he said, "It is not in the old manuscripts," and aimed to leave the
							impression on us that it was not in this manuscript.

						He further stated, "I have written a commentary on St. Matthew and also on St. Mark.
							The one on Matthew has been published; the one on Mark has not."

						We soon found that he was not very much of a believer in preaching and practising the
							whole Word of God in these days. We told him that we should like to examine the
							ancient manuscript, and especially the last chapter of St. Mark. To this he replied,
							"It would do you no good, as the passage is spurious."

						However, we made application according to the rules of the library, and he could not
							refuse letting us see the manuscript. Upon examination we found the sixteenth chapter
							of St. Mark in full, as we had anticipated. Other questionable passages were also to
							be found in this manuscript. The questionable verses in St. Mark in the Common Version
							read as follows: "Now when Jesus was risen early the first day of the week, he
								appeared first to Mary Magdalene, out of whom he had cast seven devils. And she went
								and told them that had been with him, as they mourned and wept. And they, when they
								had heard that he was alive, and had been seen of her, believed not. After that he
								appeared in another form unto two of them, as they walked, and went into the
								country. And they went and told it unto the residue: neither believed they them.
								Afterward he appeared  unto the eleven as they sat at
								meat, and upbraided them with their unbelief and hardness of heart, because they
								believed not them which had seen him after he was risen. And he said unto them, Go
								ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature. He that believeth
								and is baptized shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall be damned. And these
								signs shall follow them that believe; In my name shall they cast out devils; they
								shall speak with new tongues; they shall take up serpents; and if they drink any
								deadly thing, it shall not hurt them; they shall lay hands on the sick, and they
								shall recover. So then after the Lord had spoken unto them, he was received up into
								heaven, and sat on the right hand of God. And they went forth, and preached
								everywhere, the Lord working with them, and confirming the word with signs
								following. Amen." Mark 16: 9-20.

						From Oxford we went to London to continue our work regarding the manuscripts at the
							British Museum. This is one of the greatest museums of the kind in the world. There
							are several large rooms in this spacious building containing only manuscripts. Some of
							them contain the most ancient in existence. As we had only two or three days in which
							to complete our work there, we had to ask the Lord to open the way before us. The
							rules of the Museum were that those desiring to examine the manuscripts were to take
							out a reader's certificate for three or six months, and three days were required after
							application was made before the certificate was granted. By the time of the expiration
							of three days it was necessary that we be on our way to another country. Having a
							letter of introduction to Lord Cunaird we visited him, and he gave us a letter to the
							secretary of the Museum, asking him to let us have such privileges as we desired at
							that place. The secretary was very kind,  and gave us
							special favors, and waived the rules, giving us immediate admittance, and mailing the
							notice concerning the certificate three days later in fulfilment of the rules of the
							library. Through these special favors by the help of the Lord we not only had the
							privilege of examining the photographic copies of the old manuscripts, but were
							permitted to examine the old manuscripts themselves. Upon these old parchments the
							Bible was written hundreds of years ago. They were kept in places hidden away until
							almost forgotten. Since they have been discovered again, and are kept in museums and
							libraries. They were written in Greek, Hebrew, or Latin, which have since been
							translated into the English and other languages, and Bibles have been printed.

						Here we examined three of the ancient manuscripts of the Bible. The first of these,
							Codex Alexandrinus, one of the three most ancient manuscripts of the Bible in the
							world, was written in Greek paleography about 1,500 years ago, on fine parchments that
							have so well stood the hostile attacks of unfavorable ages, and the wear and tear of
							centuries past, standing as a firm and strong monumental witness to the providence of
							God in preserving the Sacred Oracles in record. The original of these precious
							documents is kept with great care, and is not for public handling or inspection; but a
							perfect facsimile, photographic copy is allowed to be used. At first they refused to
							allow us to examine the original. However, through the grace of God we had the
							privilege of reading the very original volume, but the superintendent of that
							department of the library stood by and turned the leaves for us, not permitting us to
							handle them. In this volume we found the entire passage of Mark 16: 9-20.

						Then we examined Codex Harleianus, a manuscript of the ninth and tenth century, and
							Codex Burneimus of the  eleventh century, both of which
							contain the disputed conclusion of Mark uncurtailed. Besides this passage we examined
							some other New Testament scriptures, the genuineness of which is sometimes questioned
							by the scholars (so called); and we are glad to say that we found them all right in
							these manuscripts. Now these are all of the most ancient manuscripts of the kind in
							the British Museum.

						A few days later we continued our work with the manuscripts at the Bibliotheque
							Nationale at Paris. At first everything seemed to go against us in obtaining
							admittance to the library; but after working hard all day, traveling from place to
							place, we had made the necessary arrangement, which gave us admittance early the next
							morning to the National Libraries of Paris. Here we examined the important and curious
							manuscript known as Codex Ephraemi, which is one of the most ancient manuscripts of
							the Bible. In value it is as important as Codex Alexandrints of the British Museum,
							and in antiquity it stands fourth, if not earlier; Codex Sinaiticus in St. Petersburg,
							the Vaticanus in Rome, and Codex Alexandrinis in London, are the first three. But this
							manuscript is perhaps the most difficult to read, as it is most obscure and blurred,
							as if blue or black ink had been smeared over, the pages of the sacred volume. This
							was the result of a chemical which the parchment folios underwent in order to bring to
							light the almost obliterated sacred writing, which was rubbed out to receive a later
							inscription. The manuscript is about 1,500 years old. We examined this codex and found
							the last twelve verses of Mark's Gospel in it all right.

						Then we examined the Royal Manuscript of Paris, which is about 1,200 years old. This
							is the only manuscript, so far as we know, that contains an alternative conclusion of
							Mark, but it gives in full the usual revision of the text  at the end of the gospel. The next manuscript we examined was Codex Cyprius, which
							is also about 1,200 years old. This contains the section in question in toto. Besides
							these we examined ten other important manuscripts, all of which contain the passage in
							full, and discovered some of the false arguments and misrepresentations of some of the
							eminent scholars (so called).

						In Venice we had no difficulty in gaining admittance to the library, and had the
							privilege of examining four important manuscripts of the Bible, one of which was about
							one thousand years old, and found the passages in question in all of them.

						From Venice we continued our work at the Vatican in Rome. The Vatican Library
							contains one of the five most ancient copies of Biblical manuscripts. The extreme
							carefulness of admittance is not peculiar to Rome. We met with the same in almost all
							the other libraries, and had to secure admittance and privileges to handle these
							manuscripts by special effort and influence.

						When we arrived in Rome we thought of getting help of the British Consul, but soon
							learned that he had no influence with the Vatican. After prayer we secured a Roman
							Catholic guide as interpreter, went to the Vatican, presented our cards of
							recommendation, which we secured at London and Paris, and the Lord gave us favor in
							the sight of the superintendent of the library and he granted our request. The Vatican
							was well guarded by soldiers both inside and outside the building. We examined the
							manuscripts in the Vatican, and found the last chapter of Mark uncurtailed in all but
							one. This has only the first part of Mark sixteen to the end of verse eight; but there
							is a peculiar fact in reference to this manuscript. The codex is a quarto volume
							containing three columns on each 
							
								LIBRARY ROOM OF THE VATICAN-- ROME.
							
							 page. The eighth verse ends about the middle of the
							second column and the entire third column is left vacant, leaving sufficient space for
							the remainder of the chapter. The Gospel of St. Luke begins over on the next page.
							Now, there is no other similar instance in the whole New Testament portion of the
							manuscript. If a book ends in the middle of first column, the next book always begins
							at the next column. We examined the whole of the New Testament, and found no other
							unnecessary vacancy anywhere else. This singular fact decidedly proves that the
							original manuscript from which this copy was made must have contained the verses nine
							to twenty in full, but for some reason or other the transcriber did not copy them. It
							may be the signs and wonders promised to the church had almost ceased at that time
							because of the unbelief of the apostate professors, and in order to free themselves
							they kept the truth hid from the people. Nor is this a wild imagination and groundless
							fancy, for humanity is so deceptive and deluded that it would sooner doubt God than
							itself.

						At the present time many do not believe in the genuineness of these verses, because
							of their inability to work the signs that are to follow the believers. For such
							reasons the omission of the passage from this manuscript can be accounted for. Besides
							this, it may also have been because that in the original manuscript this was the last
							leaf and it was torn off, which caused the absence of the section in subsequent copies
							of which this manuscript in the Vatican is a sample. This idea has been entertained by
							several of the able scholars of Biblical criticism; for they are all united in
							declaring that the gospel could not have been ended with verse eight, the last word of
							which is it conjunction "for," which can never close a book without doing severe
							violence to the simple and elementary laws of 
							composition and rhetoric. There are many other internal and external reasons in favor
							of the genuineness of the passage. In fact, all the manuscripts that we examined
							contained the passages, except this one. Another one at St. Petersburg, which we have
							not seen, does not contain it. But we have since received facsimile pages of the last
							chapter of St. Mark and the first chapter of St. Luke from this manuscript. It is to
							be found in all the ancient versions and in the writings of the Fathers. One of the
							earliest Fathers, Irensaus, who was the disciple of Polycarp, a disciple of John the
							Evangelist, quotes the passage in his treatise against the heretics. There are many
							other overwhelming evidences of the genuineness of these scriptures.
					

					

					

						HOW WE GOT OUR BIBLE.

						"WE live in a land of Bibles" is an oft-quoted expression. But the
							inquisitive reader asks, "Whence came this Bible? Have we the original manuscripts and
							books written by Moses, the prophets, and the apostles?" When we reply that none of
							these original books or writings have been discovered in this age of the world, then
							the question comes, "What evidence have we of the genuineness of these Scriptures?"
							Some say that it was handed down from generation to generation by hearsay until
							centuries after the time of the apostles; but such is not the case.

						The Pentateuch, or first five books of the Bible, whose writing is ascribed to Moses,
							and which is sometimes called "the book," or "the book of Moses," was a written book.
							It was sometimes called "the law," or "the book of the law." Moses gave the law to the
							people, and after his death we find Joshua having the people gather together between
								 Mount Gerizim and Mount Ebal, near Shechem, and the
							law was read to them.

						Centuries after this we find about the time Nehemiah was preparing to rebuild the
							walls of Jerusalem, he had the people gather together, and told Ezra to "bring the
							book of the law." Neh. 8:4. And the book was brought, "and Ezra opened the book" and
							read to the people. We find, also, in the Old Testament where it is stated that the
							acts of the kings are recorded in the book of the Kings and in Chronicles, etc. These
							records were preserved and handed down from generation to generation, and the people
							of God were made acquainted with their teachings.

						When Jesus Christ came and began his ministry, he frequently referred the people to
							what had been written. In St. Luke 4: 16-20 is an account given of the time when Jesus
							began his ministry at Nazareth, which says, "He went into the synagogue on the
							sabbath-day, and stood up for to read. And there was delivered unto him the book of
							the prophet Esaias [Isaiah]. And when he had opened the book, he found the place where
							it was written, The Spirit of the Lord is upon me," etc. "And he closed the book, and
							he gave it again to the minister, and sat down." They not only had in those days the
							book containing the Law, but here Jesus read from the book of Isaiah the prophet,
							which told concerning himself. It was a book which could be opened (verse 17), and it
							says he "closed the book." Verse 20.

						It is plain to see that they had the Scriptures recorded in book form, not only
							during the centuries before Christ, but at the time he began his ministry, and no
							doubt they had copies of these Scriptures in all the synagogues. It would not,
							therefore, be a strange thing if many copies of these ancient manuscripts were sealed
							up and kept in some  secluded place for centuries and
							many copies were made from others. In consideration of the fact that the Scriptures,
							or Old Testament, were so made into book form and were carefully preserved before and
							during the time of Christ, it would not seem strange if his own words and the words of
							the apostles were also carefully preserved in book manuscript, written upon the
							durable parchments of that day.

						When the devil came to tempt him, Jesus said, "It is written," etc. To the Jews who
							were not willing to accept Jesus as a Savior he said, "Search the Scriptures; for in
							them ye think ye have eternal life: and they are they which testify of me." John 5:39.
							Now, he would not have told them to search the Scriptures had there not been some
							records for them to search. There was a book of Psalms (Acts 1: 20), which David wrote
							(Luke 20: 42); and Jesus told of what was "written in the law of Moses, and in the
							prophets, and in the psalms." >Luke 24: 44.

						After the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ we find Paul preaching to the
							people, as recorded in Acts 17:11, "and they searched the Scriptures daily." Upon this
							occasion there were "noble" Jews, and also "honorable" men and women among the Greeks.
							At one place was a man named Apollos, of whom it is said, that he was "mighty in the
							Scriptures." Acts 18: 24. These Scriptures were without doubt the books or writings of
							the Old Testament. Paul in his second Epistle to Timothy spoke to him about the cloak,
							which, said he, "when thou comest, bring with thee, and the books, but especially the
							parchments." 2 Tim. 4: 13. It is very likely that some of these books mentioned were
							not only the Old Testament, but also the Gospels; and the parchments were to be
							brought that Paul might complete the writing of the Epistles. The parchments were  prepared skins of goats or of some other animals. They
							were prepared in such a manner as to very much resemble paper, although very strong
							and durable.

						The Old Testament was originally written in the Hebrew language, while the original
							language of the New Testament was Greek. A knowledge of this fact explains the
							different use of words. For instance, 1 Kings 18: 41-46, which relates the
							circumstances of the prayer of Elijah after the famine of three years and six months.
							In referring to him, in translating from Hebrew to English, his name is called Elijah.
							In Jas. 5: 17, referring to the same occurrence, the same name translated from the
							Greek is Elias, meaning the same person. There are a number of similar changes.

						The earliest Hebrew text known of the Old Testament is one in the British Museum,
							which dates back about to the ninth century A. D.; but there are many other evidences
							of the writings of the Old Testament in existence which date back much further. Aside
							from the Talmud and the Targums, there is the Samaritan Pentateuch. This is a very
							ancient manuscript in the form of a roll, written in Samaritan or Old Hebrew
							characters, independently of the Orthodox Jews, and is supposed to be almost as
							ancient as the Hebrew. It contains the first five books of the Bible. It is kept by
							the Samaritan people at Nabulus, a city which is built on the site of the ancient city
							of Shechem. It is claimed that this manuscript was written by the great grandson of
							Aaron. In our travels through Palestine we remained one night in this city, where
							there are about one hundred and fifty of the Samaritan people still living as a
							colony. They take much pride in the preservation of these manuscripts.
					

					

					
						SAMARITAN PENTATEUCH.
					

					

					

						THE SEPTUAGINT VERSION.

						We have to-day what is called the Septuagint Version, or version of the Seventy. This
							is a translation of the Old Testament made in the Greek language at Alexandria by
							seventy-two Jewish scholars, and for this reason it is called the Septuagint or
							Seventy. It is said that Ptolemy Philadelphus, king of Egypt B. C. 284-246, while
							preparing his large library, desired to have reliable books on every theme from the
							best authority possible; therefore sent an embassy to Eliazar the high priest at
							Jerusalem to obtain copies of their sacred books and of the Hebrew law, and make a
							translation of the same. This high priest sent the copies requested, together with
							these seventy-two translators. It is said that they were separated from each other,
							and that when their translations were compared they were exactly the same. However,
							let that be as it may, a translation of the books of the Pentateuch was made about two
							hundred and fifty years or more before Christ, and the other books completed a few
							years later. Thus the entire Old Testament was translated into Greek over one hundred
							and fifty years before Christ. There have been a number of other versions since that
							time. But, it is the New Testament that we desire more especially to dwell upon.
					

					

						THE NEW TESTAMENT.

						We have a Bible to-day consisting of both the Old and New Testaments. We have shown
							that the Old Testament existed in book form before and at the time of Christ and his
							apostles; but it is almost nineteen centuries since that time, and the question comes
							to us now, How was this Bible handed down to us from generation to generation and from
							century to century? or, in other words, How did we get our Bible? as none of the
							original manuscripts of  the apostles' writings are
							known to be in existence to-day. The evidences by which we may know the facts
							concerning the reliability and genuineness of our Bible are through the versions,
							manuscripts, and quotations from the Bible by early writers. There are, however, a few
							things that we do know beyond doubt. One is that we have to-day a version of the New
							Testament called the Twentieth Century Testament given in modern English. Then, we
							have what is called the Revised Version of both Old and New Testaments, dated 1881-85.
							Also, the authorized or King James' Version, dated 1611. This is the one in general
							use to-day. No one calls in question that King James I. almost three centuries ago
							ordered it to be translated and printed. Neither do they believe that King James or
							any one else in his day wrote this book in order to deceive the people. Consequently
							there must have been some versions or manuscripts older than this one.

						We have heretofore stated that the original language of the New Testament was Greek.
							About the eighth century some portions of the Scripture were made into Anglo-Saxon,
							and into English about the thirteenth century. About 1380 Wyclif, with some of his
							followers, translated the entire Bible into the English from the Latin Vulgate; but as
							this was before the days of printing, it existed only in manuscript form until about
							the year 1848 or 1850, when it was published in type. In 1525 William Tyndale began
							the publication of his translation of the New Testament. In 1534 he published a
							revised edition of the New Testament. In 1535 Miles Coverdale translated the Bible
							from the Swiss-German Bible and the Latin Version of Pagninus. This was the first
							version of the entire Bible published in English. Then came what was known as
							Matthew's Bible, 1537; Taverner's, 1539; the Great Bible, 1539; the Geneva  Bible, 1560; the Bishop's Bible, 1568; Reims' New
							Testament, 1582; then came the Authorized Version, 1611. King James had fifty-four
							scholarly persons assigned to the work of translating and preparing this Bible. They
							were located at Westminster, Oxford, and Cambridge. It was not particularly to be a
							new translation, but to be a better one, as many errors had been made in the former
							translations. They were to follow the text of the Bishop's Bible with as little
							alteration as the truth of the original permitted. They used the text of Beza's Latin
							and Greek Testaments of 1598, and also made considerable use of the Geneva of 1560 and
							the Reim's New Testament of 1582. They did not at that time have access to the older
							Greek manuscripts, the most reliable of which have been discovered and brought into
							use since that date.

						After some of these older manuscripts were found it was deemed necessary to get out a
							revised edition in order to correct some of the errors that were clearly pointed out
							through the reading of the older manuscripts, and some also found to be made by those
							who copied the manuscripts in later years, although there was nothing of such a
							serious nature as to change the doctrine or teachings to any great extent. Another
							reason for the change was to bring the expression in the English up to date, as many
							of the English words formerly used have become obsolete.

						But now we must go further back than the English versions, and see what we can find
							among the manuscripts. A version is that which is translated from another language.
							For instance, from Greek to Latin or from Greek to English or some other language. The
							manuscripts are written on parchments made of the skins of animals. They very much
							resemble paper, and the words are printed and written with ink. There are two classes
							of Greek writing; the oldest  being written in capital
							letters, which is called uncial. These are written without any extra
							space between the words, making it quite difficult to read. It is not divided into
							sentences, and is without punctuation. However, about the ninth or tenth century
							another style of writing was used, which is called the cursive style, which is a kind
							of running hand.

						There are about one hundred of the old uncial manuscripts and nearly three thousand
							of the cursive manuscripts which are to be seen and examined. The most important of
							the old Greek manuscripts that have been found are the Codex Sinaiticus, the Codex
							Vaticanus, the Codex Alexandrinus, and Codex Ephraemi. These date back from A. D. 300
							to A. D. 450. Some claim the Codex Vaticanus to be the oldest, while others believe
							the Codex Sinaiticus to be the oldest volume. There are strong evidences that both of
							these were copied from other manuscripts between the years 300 and 400 A. D.

						The three oldest Greek manuscripts of the Bible in the world are the Vatican,
							Sinaitic, and Alexandrian. Frequent use of them was made in making the Revised Version
							in 1881 and 1885; but none of them were used by the translators of the Authorized or
							King James' Version. The two latter manuscripts were discovered and brought into use
							at a later day and the Codex Vaticanus was not accessible at that time. These
							manuscripts give us positive evidence of the existence of the Bible soon after the
							apostolic days. From the days of the apostles and their original writings to the time
							of these manuscripts just mentioned, is about the same period of time as from the date
							of the King James' Version to the time of the Revised Version and later versions.

						The Alexandrian manuscript, the youngest of these 
							three great manuscripts, is preserved in the British Museum. It was presented to
							Charles I. by the Patriarch of Constantinople, A. D. 1628. This was seventeen years
							too late to be used in preparing the Authorized Version. Only ten leaves are missing
							from the Old Testament; but of the New Testament twenty-five leaves have been lost
							from the beginning of Matthew, two from John, and three from Corinthians. It is
							written two columns on a page. The Vatican manuscript is written three columns on a
							page, and the Sinaitic has four columns.

						The Vatican, or the Codex Vaticanus, which is generally considered the most ancient
							in existence, has been in the Vatican Library for at least four or five hundred years.
							The early history of this manuscript is not known. It contains over seven hundred
							leaves of the finest vellum, about a foot square, bound together in book form. Gen. 1
							to 46 is lost, also Psa. 105 to 127, and all after Hebrews 9: 14 of the New Testament.
							In this manuscript, which is generally claimed to be the oldest one, the last twelve
							verses of the last chapter of St. Mark are omitted. But for some reason, enough blank
							space is left on the page, showing that the scribe knew of its existence; but for some
							reason it was not inserted, although in other old manuscripts and still older versions
							in other languages these verses appear; also in the writings of the early church
							Fathers. This manuscript having been kept in the Vatican Library by the Roman
							Catholics, it was not until recent years that any one but the Roman Catholics had
							access to it, and at the present time it is very carefully guarded, and a hard matter
							to obtain the privilege of examining it. A number of years ago Dr. Tregelles, who is
							said to be one of the most eminent of textual critics, made an attempt to examine the
							manuscript; but he said they would not let him open the volume 
							
								>A PAGE OF SINAITIC MANUSCRIPT.
							
							 without first searching his pockets and depriving him
							of pens, ink, and paper. The two priests who were left to guard and watch him would
							try to detract his attention if he seemed too intent on any passage, and if he studied
							any part of it too long they would snatch away the book. Since that time, by order of
							Pope Pius IX., facsimile pages have been made of it, and bound volumes are to be found
							in many of our chief public libraries.

						When Brother A. D. Khan and I asked for the original, we were at first refused. They
							gave us a facsimile volume, and told us that we could look at the original open book
							through a glass case. To this we replied that we had special reasons for desiring to
							examine the original manuscript, as we were there under peculiar circumstances, and
							were expected to examine the original without fail. We had already presented our
							letters of recommendation and our cards showing that we had examined the manuscripts
							in London and Paris, and after some hesitation the original manuscript was brought
							forth and was at our disposal, although closely guarded with the greatest of care.

						The Sinaitic manuscript, which was copied about the same time of the Vatican
							manuscript, was of more recent discovery. The story of its discovery is quite an
							interesting one. Tischendorf, who for some years had been spending his time
							principally in examining all the old manuscripts he could find, decided to make a
							special tour through the East and visit the old libraries and convents in order to
							find more ancient manuscripts of the Bible. From the very earliest age of the
							Christian era the Greek texts had been translated into different languages-into Latin,
							Syriac, Egyptian, etc. Ancient manuscripts of these versions had been brought to light
							where for centuries they had been hidden away in old libraries and convents. But it
							was the  ancient Greek manuscripts that he was more
							anxious to obtain.

						In the year 1844 he embarked for Egypt, and was soon at the foot of Mount Sinai in
							the convent of St. Catherine. While here, in the month of May, he found in the middle
							of a great hall a basket full of old parchments. The librarian told him that two heaps
							of papers like those had already been committed to the flames. Tischendorf looked over
							this pile of papers and found several sheets of a copy of the Old Testament in Greek,
							which seemed to him the most ancient of any he had ever seen. The authorities of the
							convent allowed him to take one-third of the pile of parchments in the waste-basket,
							or about forty-five sheets. He was so delighted, and gave expression to his feelings
							to such an extent that they suspicioned the manuscript was of great value and refused
							to allow him to take any more than the forty-five sheets. He tried in various ways to
							procure the others, but failed.

						In February, 1854, he again visited the convent at Sinai. This visit was successful
							in some ways, but he was not successful in procuring the desired manuscripts. He was
							not able to discover any further traces of those he had seen in 1844, although he
							found in a roll of papers a little fragment written on both sides which contained
							eleven short lines of the first book of Moses, which convinced him that the manuscript
							originally contained the entire Old Testament, but that the greater part had been long
							since destroyed.

						On January 18, 1859, he made a short visit to the convent, hoping to make some
							further discoveries. After remaining a few days looking over some other ancient
							manuscripts, he made arrangements with his Bedouin guides to make ready for their
							return journey soon, when  a peculiar circumstance took
							place. To give it in his own language, he says: "On the afternoon of this day I
									was taking a walk with the steward of the convent in the neighborhood, and as we
									returned towards sunset he begged me to take some refreshments with him in his
									cell. Scarcely had he entered the room when, resuming our former subject of
									conversation, he said, 'And I too have read a Septuagint, that is, a copy of the
									Greek translation made by the Seventy'; and so saying he took down from the corner
									of the room a bulky kind of volume wrapped up in a red cloth, and laid it before
									me. I unrolled the cover, and discovered, to my great surprise, not only those
									very fragments which, fifteen years before, I had taken out of the basket, but
									also parts of the Old Testament, the New Testament complete, and in addition, the
									Epistle of Barnabas and part of the Pastor of Hermas. Full of joy, which I had at
									this time the self-command to conceal from the steward and the rest of the
									community, I asked, as if in a careless way, for permission to take the manuscript
									into my sleeping-chamber, to look over it more at leisure. There by myself, I
									could give way to the transport of joy which I felt. I knew that I held in my hand
									the most precious Biblical treasure in existence-a document whose age and
									importance exceeded that of all the manuscripts which I had ever examined during
									twenty years' of study on the subject. I can not now, I confess, recall all the
									emotions which I felt in that exciting moment, with such a diamond in my
									possession. Though my lamp was dim and the night cold, I sat down at once to
									transcribe the Epistle of Barnabas. For two centuries search had been made in vain
									for the original Greek of the first of this epistle, which has been only known
									through a very faulty Latin translation. And yet this  letter, from the end of the second down to the beginning of the fourth century,
									had an extensive authority, since many Christians assigned to it and to the Pastor
									of Hermas a place side by side with the inspired writings of the New Testament.
									This was the very reason why these two writings were thus both bound up with the
									Sinaitic Bible, the transcription of which is to be referred to the first half of
									the fourth century, and about the time of the first Christian emperor.
								"Early on the 5th of February, I called upon the steward and asked permission to
									take the manuscript with me to Cairo, to have it there transcribed from cover to
									cover; but the prior had set out only two days before for Cairo, on his way to
									Constantinople, to attend at the election of a new archbishop, and one of the
									monks would not give his consent to my request. What was then to be done? My plans
									were quickly decided. On the 7th, at sunrise, I took a hasty farewell of the
									monks, in hopes of reaching Cairo in time to get the prior's consent. Every mark
									of attention was shown me on setting out. The Russian flag was hoisted from the
									convent walls, while the hillsides rang with the echoes of a parting salute, and
									the most distinguished members of the order escorted me on my way as far as the
									plain.
								"The following Sunday I reached Cairo where I was received with the same marks of
									good-will. The prior, who had not yet set out, at once gave his consent to my
									request, and also gave instructions to a Bedouin to go and fetch the manuscript
									with all speed. Mounted on his camel, in nine days he went from Cairo to Sinai and
									back, and on the 24th of February the priceless treasure was again in my hands.
									The time was now come at once boldly and without delay to set to work to a task of
									transcribing  no less than one hundred and ten
									thousand lines, of which a great many were difficult to read either on account of
									later corrections or through the ink having faded, and that in a climate where the
									thermometer through March, April, and May is never below seventy-seven degrees
									Fahrenheit in the shade. No one can say what this cost me in fatigue and
									exhaustion." On the 27th of September Tischendorf returned to Cairo, and received
									from the monks under the form of a loan the Sinaitic Bible, which he took to St.
									Petersburg, where it was accurately copied.
								Since my return from India, in the month of November, 1904, I received two
									facsimile pages from the original manuscript, which is now at St. Petersburg,
									Russia. These consist of the last chapter of St. Mark and the first chapter of St.
									Luke.
								There is another quite important one of the uncial manuscripts, called Codex
									Ephraemi. This is, however, called a palimpsest or rescript manuscript, that is, the original writings were rubbed out in
									order to make room for other writings. It was. first written in uncial characters,
									and about the twelfth century these pages were washed and pumiced, and on it were
									placed the writings of an old church Father by the name of Ephraem Syrus. This
									last writing was done in the cursive or running hand style of writing. About two
									hundred years ago a Swiss theologian attempted to decipher a few traces of the
									original manuscript. Some time after that another man undertook it with but little
									success. In later years an attempt was made to bring out the characters by means
									of chemicals. But after all these attempts proved to be unsuccessful, Tischendorf
									tried his skill at the manuscript, and by the use of chemicals was enabled to be
									successful in his efforts, insomuch that he was able to completely decipher the
									whole 
									
										FACSIMILE-- CODEX SINAITICUS.
									
									 of it and distinguish between the dates of the
									different writers who had been engaged upon the manuscript. This manuscript is
									kept in the Royal Library at Paris.
					

					

						THE BRIDGE OF TIME FROM THE APOSTLES TO A. D. 400.

						We have heretofore shown that the Old Testament Scriptures were handed down from
							generation to generation in book form to the days of Christ, and that Ptolemy, king of
							Egypt, had the Septuagint Version made about two hundred and fifty years before Christ
							for the great library at Alexandria. We have also shown that from A. D. 300 to 400 up
							to the present time there have been manuscripts in existence of both Old and New
							Testaments; that these manuscripts are still in existence, and that we have personally
							examined the oldest of them. But now there is the space of about three hundred years
							from the time of the apostles to the time when these old manuscripts were copied,
							which time must be bridged over by unquestionable evidence; otherwise we shall be at
							sea, as it were, regarding establishing the truthfulness of the foundation of the
							Bible. Skeptics, too, will say, as one said to me a few months ago while we were
							sailing on the Pacific Ocean.

						He asked, "How old are the oldest manuscripts of the Bible in the Greek
							language?"

						I replied that they dated back to A. D. 300 to 400 years.

						"Then, there are no older manuscripts in existence? the original can not be
							found?"

						"No, sir. The original Greek manuscripts have never been discovered."

						"If that is the case, that the oldest manuscripts date back only to about A. D. 300
							to 400, I suppose some impostor just wrote it up about that time, don't you
							think?"

						But we have an abundance of substantial evidence with 
							which to bridge over these few centuries of time. There is no questioning the fact
							that there was at one time a man living whose name was Jesus, and that there were
							twelve apostles and others who were his followers and to whom he gave the Word. After
							Jesus' death Saul of Tarsus, who was afterwards called Paul, became a believer in the
							Christian religion, and went forth preaching the gospel, and also wrote a number of
							epistles. History tells us of these men.

						Constantine, who lived A. D. 272 to 337, became the emperor of Rome. He was the first
							Christian emperor, and required the people to recognize Christianity, whereas before
							this time the Christians had undergone the most severe persecutions of torture of
							every kind, and thousands upon thousands were put to death.

						In the year 325 the Nican Council was held, where certain authoritative steps were
							taken concerning this affair. Before Constantine's time, during the great persecutions
							of the Christians, a special effort was made by the rulers of the land and others to
							completely wipe out of existence not only the Christians themselves, but their
							doctrine by also destroying the manuscripts. Many of these sacred volumes were
							delivered up and burned, but others were hidden away and sealed up in caves and vaults
							and in some way preserved. Constantine, desiring to reestablish the work on this line
							and preserve the Scriptures, gave orders that fifty copies of the Bible be made for
							use in the churches at the various places. Eusebius Pamphili, bishop of Csarea, who
							lived during the time of the Emperor Constantine and died a few years later, wrote a
							history of the life of the Emperor. This great Christian historian, who was a personal
							friend of Constantine, in giving his account of Constantine says: 
							"Ever careful for the welfare of the churches of God, the Emperor addressed me
									personally in a letter on the means of providing copies of the inspired oracles
									... His letter, which related to the providing of copies of the Scriptures for
									reading in the churches, was to the following purport:
								"'VICTOR CONSTANTINE, MAXIMUS AUGUSTUS, TO EUSEBIUS:
								"'It seems highly requisite, since that city is rapidly advancing in prosperity
									in all other respects, that the number of churches should be also increased. Do
									you, therefore, receive with all readiness my determination on this behalf? I have
									thought it expedient to instruct your Prudence to order fifty copies of the sacred
									Scriptures, the provision and use of which you know to be most needful for the
									instruction of the church, to be written on prepared parchment, in a legible
									manner, and in a commodious and portable form, by transcribers thoroughly
									practised in their art. The procurator of the diocese has also received
									instructions by letter from our Clemency to be careful to furnish all things
									necessary for the preparation of such copies; and it will be for you to take
									special care that they be completed with as little delay as possible. You have
									authority, also, in virtue of this letter, to use two of the public carriages for
									their conveyance, by which arrangement the copies, when fairly written, will most
									easily be forwarded for my personal inspection; and one of the deacons of your
									church may be entrusted with this service, who, on his arrival here, shall
									experience my liberality. God preserve you, beloved brother.'
								"Such were the Emperor's commands, which were followed by the immediate execution
									of the work itself, which we sent him in magnificent and elaborate volumes 
									
									 of a threefold and fourfold form. This fact is
									attested by another letter, which the Emperor wrote in acknowledgment."--
							EUSEBIUS: Life of Constantine, Bk. IV, Chap. 34-37.

						Here we find that fifty copies of the Bible were prepared by the hand and at the
							expense of the Roman emperor for the benefit of the congregations in the different
							places. And when Tischendorf found the Sinaitic manuscript, he was quite well
							convinced that it was very probably one of these fifty copies ordered by Constantine,
							which had been presented to that convent.

						Infidels admit that the New Testament as we have it existed at the time of the
							Council of Nice in the year 325. Then, we have only to bridge over a chasm of less
							than three hundred years in order to meet the apostles with their original writings
							and work.

						As Jesus Christ was the foundation and chief cornerstone of the church of God, and he
							gave his gospel to his apostles, we will now begin building our bridge, using him for
							our foundation-stone and place of starting. He gave the word and the Twelve and the
							Seventy who went forth preached it. Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John wrote the Gospels.
							Paul and others wrote the Epistles. Paul in writing to Timothy told him when he came
							to "bring the books, but especially the parchments." He no doubt at that very time had
							been writing his Epistles to the churches, which have been handed down to us as a
							portion of the New Testament. John, who was one of the apostles, and who wrote a part
							of the New Testament, lived until about the year 100. Polycarp, who was a great
							writer, and whose writings are to be found to-day, lived from about the year 69 to
							165. He was also bishop of Smyrna, was acquainted with John, and was not only
							acquainted with John, but was one of his disciples, who sat at his feet and learned
							from the blessed apostle.

						

						Among other writers whose writings are still extant is Justin Martyr, who lived from
							about the year 105 to 163, who was well acquainted with Polycarp, and had heard him
							tell of his conversations with John and of hearing John preach. There were other noted
							writers of about the same time. One, Ignatius, who died about A. D. 115; another,
							Clement, who was bishop of Rome from A. D. 91 to 101. Then, there was Irenus, bishop
							of Lyons, who died about A. D. 202; Tertullian, A. D. 150 to 230; Origen, A. D. 185 to
							253; Gregory, 210 to 270; Constantine, A. D. 272 to 337; Lactantius, A. D. 301 to 325;
							Euebius, A. D. 264 to 349.

						As we have heretofore stated, infidels admit that the New Testament existed at the
							time of Constantine. We have now bridged the chasm over to the apostles by a number of
							noted reliable writers, whose writings are now extant and a copy of the same before me
							as I write. We will now proceed to quote a few expressions from the writings of some
							of these men. As the dates have already been given at the time which these men lived,
							it will be unnecessary to make mention again all the dates of their life and writings.
							However, we would say that Irenus died in the second year of the third century, that
							is, A. D. 202. In his youth he had sat at the feet of the aged Polycarp; and Polycarp
							had in turn been a disciple of the Evangelist St. John, and had conversation with
							other eye-witnesses of the gospel narrative. Irenus, in speaking of his own personal
							recollections, gives us Polycarp's own account of that which he had heard from the
							lips of St. John and other disciples of our Lord, and expressly adds that all these
							words agree with Scripture. But let us hear his own words, as contained in a letter to
							Florinus: "When I was yet a child, I saw thee at Smyrna in Asia  Minor, at Polycarp's house, where thou wert
									distinguished at court, and obtained the regard of the bishop. I can more
									distinctly recollect things which happened then than others more recent; for
									events which happen in infancy seem to grow with the mind, and to become part of
									ourselves; so that I can recall the very place where Polycarp used to sit and
									teach, his manner of speech, his mode of life, his appearance, the style of his
									address to the people, his frequent references to St. John and to others who had
									seen our Lord; how he used to repeat from memory their discourses, which he had
									heard from them concerning our Lord, his miracles and mode of teaching, and how,
									being instructed himself by those who were eye-witnesses of the Word, there was in
									all that he said a strict agreement with the Scriptures."

						This is the account which Irenus himself gives of his connection with Polycarp, and
							of the truths which he had learned from him.

						About a century or more after this, Eusebius wrote in his "Ecclesiastical History"
							(Book II, Chap. 2), and Constantine had the means of knowing whether or not Eusebius
							wrote the truth: "The fame of our Lord's remarkable resurrection being now spread
								abroad, according to an ancient custom prevalent among the rulers of the nations to
								communicate novel occurrences to the emperor, that nothing might escape him, Pontius
								Pilate transmits to Tiberius an account of the circumstances concerning the
								resurrection of our Lord from the dead, the report of which had been spread
								throughout all Palestine. In this account he also intimated that he ascertained
								other miracles respecting heaven, and having now risen from the dead he was believed
								to be a God by the great mass of the people. Tiberius referred the matter to the
								senate, but it is said they rejected the proposition."

						

						Tertullian also wrote in his "Apology" to the rulers of the Roman empire (section
							21), wherein he spoke of the darkness of the crucifixion, and said, "You yourselves
							have an account of the world-potent in your archives"; and when recording Christ's
							condemnation, death, burial, resurrection, and ascension, he said, "All these things
							did Pilate do to Christ; and, now in fact a Christian in his own convictions, he sent
							word of Him to the reigning Caesar, who was at the time Tiberius." Constantine knew
							whether or not these were facts, and also knew whether or not Justin Martyr spoke the
							truth in his "Apology" to the Roman Emperor Antoninus Pius (chapter 21), when he
							testified of Christ's healing the sick, casting out demons, cleansing the lepers, and
							raising the dead; and added, "And that he did these things you can learn from the Acts of Pontius Pilate." The public records of Rome had not yet been
							destroyed by barbarian conquerors, and were at his command. He was nearly thirty years
							old in A. D. 303, when his predecessor Diocletian published his imperial edict
							commanding them to tear down the churches of the Christians, and to burn their copies
							of the sacred Scriptures.

						Eusebius, in writing concerning some of these things, said: "We saw with our own
								eyes our houses of worship thrown down from their elevation, the sacred Scriptures
								of inspiration committed to the flames in the midst of the markets. It was in the
								nineteenth year of the reign of Diocletian [A. D. 302], in the month of Dystrus,
								called by the Romans March, in which the festival of our Savior was at hand, when
								the imperial edicts were everywhere published to tear down the churches to the
								foundation and to destroy the sacred Scriptures by fire."-- Eusebius Ecclesiastical History, Book VIII, Chap. 21.

						There are numerous statements made by these early 
							writers concerning the "Acts of Pontius Pilate," and the report that he gave to Caesar
							concerning the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. And Eusebius and others say
							that these records or reports were kept in the Archives of Rome. Among the old
							manuscripts in the Vatican Library in Rome at the present time, is one giving the
							report of Pontius Pilate to Augustus Caesar, a translation of which I have before me
							as I write. But even though this manuscript should be forged, there is enough evidence
							that such a report did exist and was safely kept in the Archives of Rome.

						We could continue by giving a great multiplicity of similar quotations from these
							early writers, but now we will notice what they had to say concerning the Bible.
							Irenus said, "So well established are our Gospels, that even teachers of error
								themselves bear testimony to them; even they rest their objections on the
								foundations of the Gospels."-- Adv. Haer. III, 11, 7.

						It was not Constantine who made the Bible, nor who decided what books were canonical,
							as this was decided in the days of the apostles and continued to be known as such
							during the centuries to follow. Polycarp, who was martyred A. D. 155 or 156 and lived
							about thirty years of his life at the same time with St. John, quotes in his epistles
							to the Philippians nearly forty passages from our New Testament. Justin Martyr, who
							wrote about A. D. 140, or forty years after the death of the apostle John, has many
							quotations and uses the very words that we now read in the New Testament. In the
							writings of Irenus, A. D. 178; Clement, A. D. 194; Tertullian, A. D. 200; and Origen,
							A. D. 230, are to be found 8,723 quotations from the New Testament, including every
							book which we accept as canonical.

						

						Dr. Keith, in the sixth chapter of his "'Demonstration of the Truth of the Christian
							Religion,' records the number of quotations from the New Testament which can be seen
							in works which are still extant of the writers we have named. He reports 767 passages
							quoted by Irenus, from every book in the New Testament except the third Epistle of
							John, and the Epistle of Jude; 389 passages quoted by Clement, from every book except
							the Epistle of James and the second and third Epistles of John, and the Epistle of
							Jude; 1,802, or, if repetitions are included, more than 3,000, quoted by Tertullian
							from every book of the New Testament except the Epistle of James, the third of John,
							the second of Peter, and the Epistle of Jude; while the works of Origen yet extant,
							contain 5,765 quotations from the New Testament, including every book contained
							therein, and excluding all the so-called apocryphal books, about which infidels
							sometimes talk so freely. Many works of Origen and other authors of those times have
							perished, but it is probable that if Origen's entire writings had been preserved, if
							the New Testament had been lost, it could have been reconstructed from them
							alone."

						Tregelles, when speaking of Origen, who died about A. D. 254, says: "In his
								writings he makes such extensive use of the New Testament, that although a very
								large number of his works are lost, and many others have come down to us only in
								defective Latin versions, we can in his extant Greek writings alone, ... find cited
								at least two-thirds of the New Testament; so that, had such a thing been permitted
								as that the Gospels, and some of the others books, should have been lost, we might
								restore them in a great measure by means of the quotations in Origen."

						

						These were the Gospels which Justin Martyr said were read in the public assemblies of
							the Christians every Lord's day. They were the "authentic writings" which Tertullian
							(A. D. 200) said were to be found in his time by any inquirer, in the custody of the
							churches of Corinth, Philippi, Thessalonica, Ephesus, and Rome. They were the
							Scriptures which the Emperor Diocletian (A. D. 300) ordered to be surrendered and
							burned, that he might destroy the foundations of Christianity. They were the same
							Scriptures that Constantine (A. D. 331) made mention of in a letter which is still
							extant, ordering Eusebius to provide fifty copies, to be carefully transcribed upon
							prepared parchments, as heretofore mentioned. Mr. Buchanan of Edinburgh relates the
							following concerning Lord Hailes, a Scottish judge. He says: "I was dining some
									time ago with a literary party at old Mr. Abercrombie's, father of General
									Abercrombie, who was slain in Egypt at the head of the British army, and spending
									the evening together. A gentleman present put a question which puzzled the whole
									company. It was this: 'Supposing all the New Testaments in the world had been
									destroyed at the end of the third century, could their contents have been
									recovered from the writings of the first three centuries?'
								"The question was novel to all, and no one even hazarded a guess in answer to the
									inquiry. About two months after this meeting, I received a note from Lord Hailes,
									inviting me to breakfast with him next morning. He had been one of the party.
									During breakfast he asked me if I recollected the curious question about the
									possibility of recovering the contents of the New Testament from the writings of
									the first three centuries.
								"'I remember it well,' said I, 'and have thought of it  often, without being able to form any opinion or conjecture on the
									subject.'
								"'Well,' said Lord Hailes, 'that question quite accorded with the turn or taste
									of my antiquarian mind. On returning home, as I knew I had all the writings of
									those centuries, I began immediately to collect them, that I might set to work on
									the arduous task as soon as possible.' Pointing to a table covered with papers, he
									said, 'There have I been busy for these two months, searching for chapters,
									half-chapters, and sentences of the New Testament, and have marked down what I
									have found, and where I found it, so that any person may examine and see for
									himself. I have actually discovered the whole New Testament from those writings,
									except seven (or eleven) verses (I forget which), which satisfied me that I could
									discover them also.' 'Now,' said he, 'here was a way in which God concealed or hid
									the treasure of his Word, that Julian, the apostate emperor, and other enemies of
									Christ who tried to extirpate the Gospels from the world, never would have thought
									of; and though they had, they could never have effected their
								destruction.'"

						With all this evidence we feel that the chasm of time has been well bridged; that we
							can clasp hands, as it were, with the apostles, and when we read our New Testament,
							feel assured that we are speaking the same words that they spoke; and when we search
							our Old Testament, we do not question it being the same Scriptures to which Jesus
							referred when he said to the Jews, "Search the Scriptures; for in them ye think ye
							have eternal life: and they are they which testify of me."
					

					

					

						FROM ENGLAND TO ITALY.

						UPON arriving at Chester, England, we entered our first walled
							city. In England as in most Oriental countries there are some walled cities. Not all
							cities have a wall around them; but some which were of special importance in the time
							of the sieges of warfare during the past. Chester is a very old or ancient city. The
							wall around it was probably first built by the Romans many hundred years ago, and has
							since been repaired at different times. In those days they built walls around the
							cities so as to be safe in time of war. The walls of Chester are from twelve to twenty
							feet high, and there is a canal just outside the wall to make it more difficult for an
							enemy to approach. On the wall are a number of towers where watchmen used to stand and
							watch for an approaching enemy, but no watchmen are kept there now for that purpose.
							In one of these towers a man stays and keeps some ancient relics. Here we looked from
							the window where King Charles looked out one time and saw his army defeated by Oliver
							Cromwell.

						The coaches of the trains in the East are very much different from those in America.
							They are divided into small rooms or compartments, with two seats across the coach.
							Each room will seat ten or twelve persons, and is something like the inside of a small
							omnibus or cab. There is a row of doors on either side of the coach or car, which open
							to every room from the outside. The conductors are called guards. They can not pass
							through the train and take up the tickets; but when the train stops, they walk along
							the platform and come and open the doors from the outside, and the passengers must
							hand him their tickets at the door. Just before the train starts the guards lock the
							doors until the next station is reached.

						

						The traveler in England must take his money to the exchange office and have it
							exchanged for English money, as that is the only kind in use there. Half-penny, penny,
							sixpence, shilling, florin, crown, sovereign, pound, etc., instead of dollars and
							cents of the United States money.

						It is not a good plan for a traveler to carry much money upon his person. We had
							secured our tickets for the voyage and journey through Thomas Cook and Son, a
							transportation company, who have offices in most of the leading cities in the world.
							To avoid loss and danger of robbery we deposited our money with them, for which we
							received a book of circular notes' of five and ten pounds each. A pound equals $4.86
							of United States money. In connection with the book of circular notes we also received
							a letter of identification. Upon our arrival in a city where we expected to remain a
							few days and would need money, we would present one or more of the circular notes,
							together with the letter of identification, at the office of Thomas Cook and Son in
							that city, and thus secure the necessary amount until we arrived at another place. In
							this way, if one were,to be so unfortunate as to have the book. stolen, he might yet
							have the letter of identification and could arrange to secure the money, and even both
							might be stolen, and yet there would be a chance of recovering the money. These little
							items are mentioned as a hint, which may be helpful to the reader who may become a
							future traveler. There is also a letter-of-credit system which is used by many for the
							same purpose.

						There are many places of interest in England, and especially in London; but as our
							stay was very short, and our time well occupied with the special business and work
							concerning the manuscripts in the British Museum, we did not have time to visit these
							places of interest. Those who  desire to obtain an
							insight or knowledge of the manners and customs of the people of several centuries can
							well interest themselves in Madame Tussaud's Place. Here is to be found a very fine
							collection, representing the different nations, of noted men and women dressed in the
							style and custom of their day. It includes the kings and royal families of past ages,
							not only of England, but noted men and women of the world. They are made in beautiful
							wax figures of the exact size of the person when living. These are so natural, and are
							either sitting or standing in such positions, that visitors often begin talking to
							them, asking them questions concerning the other figures in another part of the room.
							There, standing in a group, are President Roosevelt, Abraham Lincoln, James A.
							Garfield, and William McKinley. The readers of history can here study the characters,
							and brighten their memories regarding the knowledge received by reading the records of
							the past.

						In the basement can be seen the place called "The Chamber of Horrors," which portrays
							lifelike scenes of the foulest murders and executions and bloody scenes of the past,
							during the reign of kings and queens of centuries ago while the country was undergoing
							a change in religious affairs. A representation of the scenes with the old machines
							and instruments of execution of Christians are there to be found, making it truly a
							scene of horrors.

						But few street-cars are to be seen on the streets of London, and those are drawn by
							horses. The streets are crowded with cabs and omnibuses. Most of these have seats and
							a stairway leading up at the end. Each place seating about sixteen persons. Hundreds
							of these are to be seen at a time hurriedly driven along the streets. There are some
							elevated railways, and underneath is the network of etectric cars.

						

						England is proud of her London police. As some one has said, when a London policeman
							holds up his hand, that part of the world stops. The cabdrivers understand that they
							can go no farther without his command for them to proceed.

						After our return from Africa we met the remainder of our company in London, and
							proceeded together on our way to India. Upon leaving London it seemed more like
							entering a foreign land. It required but a few hours to cross the English Channel upon
							a French vessel, the journey being made in the night. The tickets were printed in
							French, the officers and porters all talked French. It was the same way at the
							railroad ticket-offices, and on the trains when we arrived in France early the next
							morning. It was the same in Paris during our stay there at hotels, in restaurants, or
							in the National Library, on street-cars, or wherever we went-there was seldom any one
							who could speak or understand English, and in many places they did not know a word of
							the English language. But the good Lord helped us to get along and fulfil our mission,
							and to scatter the gospel truths here and there among those who could speak the
							English language. The French, generally, are quite different from the people of many
							other countries visited. They have no special desire to learn the English language.
							They feel that people should learn French instead of their learning English. At the
							hotel where we stopped one lady was employed who could speak some English. Having to
							do considerable traveling about the city in order to gain admittance to the National
							Library, in the mean time we had some interesting and amusing experiences on the
							street-cars, in restaurants, and other places where we were obliged to do more or less
							business. A part of our experience one day in a restaurant will give an idea of many
							other experiences along the way.

						

						Having remained in the Library until after the regular meal-time in order to finish
							our work there, we afterwards went to a very nice-looking restaurant. It being too
							late for the noonday meal, we had to give a special order. Not one of the employers or
							servants could speak or understand a word of English. We could not speak or understand
							the French. We were invited to take a seat at the table, and they understood that we
							wanted something to eat; but the next thing was to make them understand what we
							desired. A bill of fare printed in the French language was brought to us. We could not
							tell a thing on the card, and to point to some certain thing and order it, we did not
							know whether it would be vegetables, fruit, or meat; and as there was a large ham of a
							horse hanging up in the window, we were afraid we should get horse-meat to eat if they
							simply gave us what was on the card. In France horse-meat is used as freely as are
							beef and pork in other countries. It was also very difficult to let them know what we
							desired to drink, as the people in France and Italy would consider water about the
							last thing a person would order to drink, as wines and liquors are used freely and
							abundantly. However, after some time we managed to complete our meal.

						After our work was completed in Paris we passed on through Switzerland and across the
							beautiful range of the Alps, and were soon within the borders of Italy. The beautiful
							scenery of the Alps Mountains equals that of our Rockies and Cascades. As we were
							beholding the towering peaks of the Alps with their deep intervening valleys, the
							grandeur of the scene was so inspiring that some one suggested that we write a poem.
							None of us claimed to be an expert in writing poetry. It was decided that Brother
							Bailey write the first stanza, and after reading it the others were to each compose a
							stanza and when all were finished 
							
								A STREET SCENE IN VENICE.
							
							 they were to be read and put together and make one
							poem. Sister Bailey had the baby, and insisted that I should compose hers and also one
							for myself. When completed, the stanza Brother Bailey wrote was used for the beginning
							of the poem. Next came the production of Brother Khan, followed by that of Sister
							Nichols, while my two stanzas closed our attempt of poetic expression.
					

					

					

						AMONG THE ALPS.

						
							We're sweeping through fair Switzerland,
							Our train doth onward fly,
							We're nearing now the Alpine peaks,
							Which seem to reach the sky.
						

						
							With snow-clad cliffs of rugged rocks,
							And wreaths of silver streaks,
							The grandeur of the Alpine heights,
							His Maker's praises speaks.
						

						
							Could they relieve their burdened mind
							Pent with events of yore
							What awful scenes might be reviewed
							Of Alpine's battle gore!
						

						
							Thou grand old scene of ancient days,
							Whose hills and rocks sublime
							And awe-inspiring tow'ring peaks
							With grandeur dost combine.
						

						
							When come the bleak and wintry winds
							Thou cov'rst thy face with snow,
							But summer's breath upon thy brow
							Bids joyful tears to flow
						


						At the first city in Italy after crossing the line the passengers were all ordered
							out of the train with their 
							
								THE RIALTO-- VENICE.
							
							 luggage to pass through the custom-house, where they
							had to open it for examination. The doors were all locked until the officers had
							finished their work, then all were again sent to the train.

						In Italy we came in contact with a people who talked another language. Having
							anticipated this change, some Italian conversational books had been purchased, and our
							company being together, we were enabled to learn and put into practise enough of the
							language to get along nicely. Centuries ago the Latin language was used, but now the
							Italian language is spoken, and a Latin scholar has much difficulty in being
							understood even in Rome.
					

					

					

						VENICE-- A CITY WITH STREETS OF WATER.

						AFTER traveling nearly all night we arrived at the city of Venice
							just before daybreak. This is one of the noted cities of the world. It is at the edge
							of the Adriatic Sea, and is situated upon many small islands. Most of the streets are
							water. Solid rows of houses are built, leaving a space of water about the width of a
							common street, with no sidewalks on either side. The inhabitants of the city in order
							to visit or do business of any kind in another part of the city step into a gondola,
							which is a small rowboat with a little room near the center with a covering over it
							and place for four or five persons to be comfortably situated. These gondolas are to
							be seen almost anywhere along the watery streets, for the benefit and accommodation of
							the inmates of the houses. Now and then a short paved street is to be found in the
							middle of one of these islands, and occasionally an open square. The king has a palace
							here. Some of the finest glassworks and lace in the world 
							
								>THE LAST PRAYER-- COLOSSEUM, ROME.
							
							 are to be found in this city. It is also the scene of
							the "Merchant of Venice" of Shakespeare's writings. Some of the ancient manuscripts of
							the Bible are also kept here, for the examination of which we visited the city.

						From here we started on our way to Rome. Having to change cars at Pisa, and having
							about two hours to wait, some of us walked to another part of the city to see the
							Leaning Tower of Pisa, one of the wonders of the world. This is a large tower, the
							incline of which, we were told, is about thirteen feet. The entire height is one
							hundred and eighty-three feet. The top is reached by a stairway inside the wall.
					

					

					

						THE CITY OF ROME.

						IT was about midnight when we reached the famous city of Rome.
							This ancient city, with all its modern improvements, still bears many marks of
							antiquity here and there. The traveler sauntering forth into the streets out into the
							suburbs of the city, on every hand frequently sees old ruins and remains of the
							ancient city walls, towers and other places once famous, but now only a mass of ruins,
							or here and there a part of the walls preserved as a work of antiquity. To those who
							have studied Roman history and acquainted themselves with the bloody scenes of past
							centuries and the many vicissitudes through which the city has passed, it becomes a
							place of very great interest to have even ruins pointed out.

						This is the city where Paul was brought after having made his appeal to Casar.
							Although brought as a prisoner and in chains, he was permitted to preach the gospel in
							Rome and to write some of his epistles. He was here at 
							
								THE COLOSSEUM OF TO-DAY-- ROME.
							
							 the time of the great persecution of Christians under
							the cruel reign of Emperor Nero. It was here that thousands and thousands of
							Christians gave their lives in various ways for their faithfulness to the cause of
							Christ. Here Nero had his beautiful gardens, where Christians were Turned alive as
							torches to illuminate the walks about the place. It would be impossible to picture in
							our minds the horrible scenes and the treatment of the people of that day; but there
							still remains enough of the ancient sites to vividly bring to the mind some idea of
							the dark picture of the torchlights of that time.

						In the city still stands the great Colosseum, with the immense arena where the
							gladiators fought the wild beasts, and where Christian martyrs were thrown into the
							mouths of lions or tigers, or into the presence of infuriated bulls and other animals.
							This is the most wonderful ruin in the world-- the amphitheater of imperial Rome. The
							Colosseum, as it is called now, was begun by Vespasian in 72 A. D., on the site of
							Nero's Golden House. It was inaugurated by Titus on the twenty-first day of April, 80
							A. D., by sports that lasted one hundred days, during which thousands of men and
							beasts lost their lives. It was almost finished by Domitian after ten years, at a cost
							of fifteen millions of francs, notwithstanding the free labor of thousands of captive
							Jews who were compelled to work in the amphitheater of the Csars.

						This amphitheater occupies six acres of ground. The outside mole consists of four
							stories of arches, being supported by half engaged pillars. The last story consists of
							a wall faced with pillars and pierced with forty windows. On the top cornice of this
							wall we may still see the holes for the poles which held the ropes for the awning that
							was spread over the heads of the spectators. The style of 
							
								THE CATACOMBS-- ROME.
							
							 architecture is Greek, and changes at each tier. The
							first is Doric, the second Ionic, and the third Corinthian. Each of the lower tiers
							had eighty arches, forty-seven of which have disappeared. The number of holes which we
							see all over is probably the work of the dark ages, when the clamps and fastening of
							the stones were extricated.

						The interior is a noble wreck. The arena was two hundred and seventy-five feet long,
							one hundred and seventy-seven feet in breadth, and set on corbels about five feet
							lower than the present surface. This was discovered not long ago when half of what was
							supposed to be the arena was unearthed. A high wall crowned with bronzed railings
							protected the spectators from the wild beasts that were introduced into the arena from
							subterranean passages. The Colosseum could accommodate about fifty thousand spectators
							seated on tiers all around. The podium was the place for the emperor, the vestals and
							the state officials. On and above the podium were three more tiers. The first was for
							those of senatorial rank, the second for the knights, and the other for soldiers,
							married men with two children, and schoolmasters with their pupils. The upper
							galleries were for the gods, as the lower ranks were called by those occupying better
							seats. On certain days the arena would be filled with water, and naval battles were
							represented to commemorate engagements in Roman history.

						A show of wild beasts under Theodoric and a bull-fight in 1332 were the last
							exhibitions that took place in this slaughter-house of ancient Rome. In the middle
							ages the Colosseum was converted into a fortress, a hospital, a manufactory of cotton,
							and at last consecrated by Pope Benedict XIV. to the memory of the martyrs.

						This mighty wreck has defied time for two thousands 
							
								THE CATACOMBS-- ROME.
							
							 of years. Jewish in its labor, Roman in its origin,
							Greek in its architecture, thrilling in its history, and gigantic in its wreck of
							ruinous perfection. The scores of arched caves and dens for the beasts on the one side
							and for the imprisoned Christians on the other side who suffered martyrdom for their
							faith brought to us feeling of serenity and remembrances of these scenes of centuries
							past. To stand faithful and true to God frequently meant to sacrifice even life
							itself.
					

					

					

						THE CATACOMBS.

						A SHORT distance from the city are to be seen the catacombs of St.
							Calixtus, consisting of subterranean passages cut in volcanic soil, called tufa. Here
							the Christians used to bury their dead, and also conceal themselves from persecution.
							During the time of great persecution, when not only their lives were threatened, but
							many were being taken to the arena and thrown among the wild beasts in the presence of
							thousands of people, or in some other way tortured and killed, many fled to the
							catacombs and there sought refuge underneath the surface of the earth. It is said that
							there was a Roman law which prevented any interference with the cemetery; and as these
							catacombs were used for burial-places, they became a place of safety to the fugitive
							Christians. While they were a place of safety in one sense, they frequently meant
							death in another sense. There the Christians were out of reach of their enemies, but
							had to live in those small dark hallways underneath the ground, ofttimes amidst the
							stench of the tombs and dampness, facing starvation. However, many of them preferred
							death in this way to meeting the severe persecutions and tortures of the 
							
								THE CATAOOMBS-- ROME.
							
							 persecutors, Ofttimes the Christians had to flee to the
							catacombs in order to have their religious services.

						As we passed through these dark hallways underneath the ground with lighted candles,
							we descended as far as the third or fourth story. One of these catacombs is said to
							extend for about thirteen miles. More than thirty catacombs have been discovered
							around Rome, extending over an erea of six hundred and twenty acres. If all the
							subterranean passages were put in a line, we should have the whole length of Italy;
							namely, about five hundred and eighty-seven English miles.

						In the catacombs of St. Calixtus it is said that about two hundred thousand
							Christians were buried. It is claimed that the bones of the martyrs have been taken by
							the popes and placed in Roman Catholic cathedrals in all parts of the world.
					

					

					

						THE VATICAN-- THE HOME OF THE POPE.

						THE Vatican is no doubt the largest and most popular palace of the
							world. It is occupied as the residence of the pope, part of his court, and some of the
							guards. It has twenty courtyards, eight great staircases, and two hundred smaller
							ones, and is said to contain thousands of rooms. Many of these are decorated with
							master-pieces of art in painting and sculpture. The place is well guarded by soldiers
							and special guards under the supervision of the pope. It is the home of the pope, and
							he is scarcely ever outside of its walls. It is the headquarters of the Roman Catholic
							Church. It is a fact, however, that the government of Italy and the Roman Catholic
							power at the Vatican are not in harmony, but in many respects in direct opposition to
							each other.

						

						
							PALACE OF THE VATICAN-- ROME.
						

						

						The traveler who is escorted from place to place in the city and its immediate
							vicinity, unless well-versed in the history of Rome, will be unable to distinguish
							between true history and Roman Catholic traditions and superstitions. One day we took
							a ride out of the city a distance of about four miles to a place where it said that
							St. Paul was beheaded and his remains placed and where there now stands a cathedral.
							Upon arriving near the place we found a number of monks, both old and young, working
							in the garden by the wayside. They seemed to be working as if their lives depended
							upon their faithful labors, and activity. The guide told us that they were expected to
							work in this way all day long, and were not allowed to speak to each other at morning,
							evening, or at night while in their rooms. Many other things he told us concerning
							their privations and sacrifices. On the top of the head near the back part these monks
							had a small place shaved, a place about the size of a silver dollar. By close
							observation we found that many of the assertions of the guide concerning these monks
							were untrue, and when we were farther away from them, and they thought no one was
							watching, they did not work much, and conversed with each other quite freely.

						Upon our return, as the guide repeated the same old story, we took him aside, and
							said, "Now, we desire to know the truth of some of these things." At first he declared
							he had told us the truth. After telling him of a number of things we had observed, he
							said, "Well, as you have found out so many things, I will tell you. The whole thing is
							a humbug from beginning to end. They work only when some visitors or travelers are
							near; at other times they are not required to work much, and can talk all they please.
							When alone in their rooms of mornings and evenings, they are not under such
							restrictions."

						

						Investigation regarding the present situation of affairs brought considerable
							surprise, as we learned both from prominent Catholics and others that the pope has for
							years been losing power and influence with the majority of his people, and the
							government is in many respects in direct opposition to Catholicism. I was told by a
							number of Roman Catholics that they did not believe what the pope says. "We do not
							believe in his infallibility. The majority of Catholics do not believe in him." A
							Catholic guide told us the same. Notwithstanding what I had heard concerning the
							priests of Rome, I expected to find them a more intelligent-looking class of people.
							There are, nevertheless, men of intelligence among them.

						But few of their large church-buildings have seats in them,' as the people are
							supposed either to stand or to kneel before the crucifix of the Virgin Mary.
					

					

					

						PERFORMING THEIR RELIGIOUS RITES.

						IT is a worship of formality, without the Spirit of God, from
							beginning to end. It is truly an image-worship. Take from them the image of the Virgin
							Mary and the crucifix, and they would not know how to worship. In order to show that
							such is the case, it is only necessary to make mention of one of the many scenes I
							witnessed while among them and saw with my own eyes. At a place called the Scala Santa
							there are five flights of stairs side by side of about forty steps each and twelve or
							fifteen feet wide. There are a crucifixion scene and images back in a beautiful vault
							or room at the top of the middle stairs. Here we saw a continual crowd of people
							climbing these stairs, from the bottom to the top. When they arrived near the top,
							with the  most intense earnestness they looked upon
							these images, did obeisance to them, placed some money before them, or dropped it into
							the treasury, and went their way giving place to others to do likewise. They have been
							taught to believe that these steps were brought from Jerusalem, and are holy, being
							the same steps that Jesus walked upon when led to the judgment-hall. They say that the
							original steps have been covered over with thick wooden steps, which have been worn
							out and re-covered many times, because of their constant wearing away by the people
							going up on their knees.

						Martin Luther, who was then a young monk, had been studying the Bible, and the Lord
							had been flashing some light upon him. When he was half way up these stairs, going up
							in the usual way, on his knees, the Spirit of the Lord made known to him that "the
							just shall live by faith." That put a stop to his climbing those stairs on his knees,
							and he soon began seeking the Lord in a different manner, which brought about a great
							reformation in his life and in the lives of many others. He no longer considered it a
							virtue to ascend these stairs.

						We stood and watched the crowds of people climbing these stairs on their knees,
							stopping upon each step and counting their beads and saying prayers, and as they
							neared the top looking intently at a crucifix in front of the stairway back in a small
							room, which was illuminated with candles glittering with beautiful golden ornaments.
							When they reached the top, they kneeled before this image, or sat at the lattice
							window intently peering in with the keenest vision for a few minutes; then they passed
							into the next room, and bowed before the beautiful image of the Virgin Mary. There
							again they we it through a similar process; then moved their chairs a few feet, in
							front of a picture or 
							
								SKULLS OF THE CAPUCEIAN CONTENT-- ROME, SEVENTEENTH
										CENTURY.
							
							 image of some noted sainted person of past centuries;
							then pushed their chairs a few feet farther to another one. Thus they went the entire
							round of the room continuing the idolatrous image-worship.

						Surely had St. Paul been present, he would have said, as he did to the people of his
							day: "Because that, when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were
							thankful; but became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened.
							Who changed the truth of God into a lie, and worshiped and served the creature more
							than the Creator, who is blessed forever." Rom. 1: 21, 25. Surely these
							image-worshipers were worshiping the crucifix instead of the crucified One.
					

					

					

						KISSING ST. PETER'S TOE.

						NEAR the main entrance of the Vatican is a magnificent building
							known as St. Peter's Cathedral. Here is a beautiful row of picturesque scenery and
							architecture both ancient and modern. This spacious building, like most other
							cathedrals and places of worship in Italy, contains no seats for the audience. The
							people while doing obeisance to the pope and prelates, and worshiping the crucifix and
							other images, either do so standing, upon their knees, or prostrate on the stone
							floor. Millions of dollars have been spent in arranging and in decorating this
							building with mosaic work and precious ornaments. Here and there are to be found rows
							of confessional-boxes, similar to a witness-box in a court of justice or to a railroad
							ticket-window. Each of these boxes has a long seat in the middle and a place on either
							side for one person to stand to make confession of sins and evil deeds. The priest
							takes his 
							
								STATUE OF ST. PETER-- ROME.
							
							 seat in the middle and locks himself in, while the one
							who does the confessing stands on a little platform without, speaking through the
							lattice bars, and somewhat represents one waiting at a ticket-window. Above the
							confessional-boxes are inscriptions indicating the language spoken therein, for
							instance, at the top of one is English, another Latin, another German, another
							Portugese, etc., in order that people of different languages may know where to make
							their confessions in their own language.

						One of the great secrets of the power of Romanism is the confessional. Here the
							priests learn the secret evil deeds of the laity which are hid from the public
							knowledge, and the intelligence of which would cause many to be imprisoned or
							banished. With a knowledge of these things the priests hold their subjects in
							subjection through fear of exposure and abandonment. Through the power of the spirit
							of deception the people are kept under the power of the dignitaries of the church, and
							from childhood have been tau-ht the necessity of making known their evil deeds, until
							they believe it to be obligatory and by so doing their sins will actually be remitted
							through the priest. Through this confession they receive a temporary relief to the
							wounded conscience, and also an imaginary sense of pardon for their crimes and evil
							deeds. One of their principal scriptures for the confessional-box is James 5:16, which
							Says, "Confess your faults one to another, and pray one for another, that ye may be
							healed." But Romanism makes this a one-sided affair: the laity makes confession to the
							priests; but the priests do not fulfil their part, and make confession to the laity.
							However, the confession mentioned here has reference only to faults in time of
							sickness, something that may stand in the way of the healing, and these priests do not
							require the confession in order that the one who confesses may be healed.

						

						In this building is a large bronze statue, supposed to represent St. Peter,
							life-sized, seated on a chair with the right foot projected. Here Roman Catholics from
							all parts of the world visit, and consider it a great privilege to bow with holy
							reverence and obeisance to this image of metal; and as they approach with the
							sanctimonious feeling of reverence to this, they consider it a holy privilege to be
							permitted to kiss the big toe of the projecting foot. As we stood near by watching the
							crowds pass and thus kissing the toe of this statue, it did truly appear to us to be
							genuine idol-worship. Not only do the followers kiss this toe, but many bow themselves
							on the floor in front of it and kiss the floor where others have been constantly
							walking.

						In other places are representations of the pope; the image of the Virgin Mary; the
							crucifix, that is, the image of Christ nailed to the cross; and other images,
							paintings, or drawings of noted so-called saints, to which those idolatrous worshipers
							bow in reverence, and go through their form of worship.
					

					

					

						INDULGENCES.

						IN many places among the Roman shrines are to be read Latin
							inscriptions on the altars and walls and church doors-- "Indulgenza
								Plenaria Perpetua." The Roman definition of the term "indulgence" is "the
							remission of the temporal punishment that the church grants for some good work," such
							as making a pilgrimage to Rome to visit shrines and churches, and praying before
							statues and images, kissing crosses, etc.

						There are different kinds and grades of indulgences. "Ordinary" and "partial
							indulgences" secure only remission of "the temporal punishment due to sin." "Plenary
								 indulgences" secure remission of "all the penalty
							that the sinner owes to divine justice"; that is, even the eternal punishment due to
							sin. Thus the pope grants the so-called remission of sins to the pilgrims of Rome, and
							plenary indulgence to those who visited St. Peter's and went through the "Holy Door"
							and attended services during the "Anno Santo," or the holy year, which was the jubilee
							year of the papal church. On such occasions, as on all other occasions, indulgences
							are granted, or rather sold, to the public by the agents of the pope.
					

					

					

						DECEPTIONS AND SUPERSTITIONS.

						THERE are many erroneous traditions and superstitions handed down
							from generation to generation concerning things held sacred that are imposed, by many
							deceptions of the pope, priests, and monks, upon those who believe in the Roman
							Catholic religion. We would not here have time nor space to record the great number of
							deceptions and impositions on these lines. As an illustration of these things, and to
							give the reader a faint idea of the facts mentioned, we quote from one of their books
							entitled "Rome Ancient and Modern," pages 47 and 49, which gives an account of the
							things that are shown to the public on Christmas eve and stations in Lent at certain
							cathedrals or places of worship.

						"On Christmas eve at the Santa Maria Maggiore, the whole cradle is exposed in
							sacristy of this basilica. The cradle consists of a box made of silver, containing
							pieces of stones from the Bethlehem stable, the swaddling-bands, some of the straw
							which was spread in the manger, and pieces of wood which lined the manger.-Vespers at
							2:30 P. M.," etc.

						

						"In Lent the church of the station is opened all day, the relics are exposed, and an
							indulgence is granted to those visiting the church."

						"Sunday.-- First in Lent St. John Lateran. The relics exposed are pieces of the
							purple robe, the sponge raised to His mouth, the Virgin's veil, the towel with which
							he wiped his disciples' feet, and a thorn from the crown," etc.

						On Saturday after Good Friday is the "lighting of the holy fire in all the churches
							at 9 A. M." A fuller account of the holy fire will be given in another chapter
							concerning the holy fire at the Holy Sepulcher in Jerusalem.

						Similar statements from other books and announcements could be made to fill many
							pages, giving announcements of their deceptions and superstitious ideas.
					

					

					

						BEHEADING OF ST. PAUL.

						WHILE passing along through the city of Rome the place was pointed
							out that is said to be the site of the place where Paul had his own hired house and
							remained for two years, and where Luke wrote the Acts of the Apostles. A few miles
							outside of the city is a building which is said to stand over the spot where Paul was
							beheaded. There is a round marble pillar, which has been broken, and which stands
							about three feet above the ground, and Roman tradition has it that upon this pillar
							Paul was placed at the time his head was cut off, and they say that when his head fell
							to the ground it gave two bounds after striking the ground. They pointed out to us the
							place where the head first struck, about five feet from the pillar or place of
							execution; then another place, where it bounded and struck the ground, a distance of
							twenty-five feet from  where it first struck; and then
							bounded the second time and struck still twenty-five feet beyond. At each of these
							three places where his head struck a spring of water burst forth; the first one being
							very warm, the same temperature as blood; the second being slightly cooler, and the
							third being cool water. They say that these springs have never ceased to flow from
							that day; but for the past few years the water has become cool, all being of the same
							temperature. Doubtless they have become tired of heating it in order to deceive the
							public. The so-called springs have been walled up with mason-work under the edge of
							the wall of the building, and the traveler is given a long-handled dipper to reach
							down into the narrow place to get water to drink, but is unable to make further
							investigations. The whole thing is a "put-up job," or sham, which well represents the
							deceptions of Romanism.

						When cur Roman Catholic guide was telling us of the superstitious traditions, and we
							reminded him of some conflictions and contradictions of the truth of the matter, he
							replied with a smile, "Believe it all, or believe it none."

						They have a list of over two hundred and fifty popes, and consider that Peter was the
							first lope; but the truth of the matter is that Peter never was a pope of Roman
							Catholicism, and were he present to deliver a message to them, it would doubtless be
							with as severe judgments as was his message to those who crucified Christ, as recorded
							in the second and third chapters of Acts. He would expose their sins and destroy their
							images and idol-worship, and teach them salvation through Jesus Christ and how to
							worship the crucified One instead of the crucifix.

						At one place we were shown a marble slab on which some one had carved footprints,
							making a deep indentation in the marble; and this is kept as a very sacred work, in
								 a case, but where it is exposed to public view. The
							tradition is that Peter was at one time in Rome, and was much discouraged and on the
							point of leaving, when the Savior met him, giving him somewhat of a reproof, and Jesus
							stood upon this marble slab and left his footprints, making quite an indentation.
							Another one of these, in a Catholic institution in Jerusalem, is to be seen; but those
							who have measured the two say the footprints are of different size. As we looked upon
							this marble slab and listened to their narration, we could only feel sad because of
							their ignorance, deceptive and superstitious ideas. Truly the pure, unadulterated
							gospel of Jesus Christ is needed to be preached in Rome as much as in any heathen and
							idolatrous country.

						There are a few Protestant denominations in Rome, but most of them also have only a
							form of worship, and deny the power of the Lord Jesus Christ to save and keep people
							from their sins and to heal them of their sicknesses and diseases. We had an
							opportunity, also, to attend some of the Protestant services, and in one place had the
							privilege of presenting the gospel of our Lord and Savior to an audience of
							English-speaking people.
					

					

					

						RUINS OF POMPEII.

						FROM Rome we went to Naples, the largest city of Italy, where we
							were to take ship for Alexandria, Egypt. Having to wait two days for the departure of
							the ship, we visited the ancient city of Pompeii, or rather the ruins of it. This city
							is only a few miles from Naples, at the base of Mount Vesuvius, the great volcano of
							Italy. The city was built about six hundred years before Christ.  According to ancient history, the Romans gained control of the city about
							80 B. C. Pompeii and Herculaneum, an adjoining city, from this period to the time of
							their destruction in the year 79 A. D. became pleasure seats of the Roman aristocracy,
							who introduced into them all the vice and luxury of the capital. It was from the time
							that Pompeii became a Roman city that it developed into what it was to be found at the
							time of its excavation. The Empire was an age of wealth and luxury, and religion was
							but little heeded among the educated classes. However, it was so interwoven with the
							state, and seemingly so necessary to the ruling classes and magistrates, that there
							was no way in which they considered public money, imperial extravagance, or private
							surplus means could be more usefully expended than in enriching the city with costly
							temples, and encouraging the citizens to spend great sums in sacrifices to the gods,
							and thus blinding the people by the feasting and revelry which always accompanied the
							rites.

						Here were to be seen a collection of temples and public buildings of a magnificence
							out of all proportion to the size of the city, all testifying to enormous wealth,
							great progress, and exquisite culture.

						On the 5th of February, A. D. 63, a violent earthquake was felt over the whole of
							Campania, damaging many of her cities, but working its worst ravages upon Pompeii,
							Herculaneum, and Nuceria. A great part of these cities was razed to the ground, and
							nearly all the public buildings in Pompeii were irretrievably damaged. The statues in
							the Forum were wrenched from their pedestals, and many of the inhabitants were mad
							with fear.

						The city was for a time completely deserted, as many of the houses were insecure, and
							large numbers of them  had actually fallen. But
							confidence was eventually restored, the citizens returned to their homes, and set to
							work to repair their dwellings.

						There seems at first to have been considerable debate whether the public buildings
							should be rebuilt; but eventually the panic passed off, and the Decurions gave orders
							for their reconstruction, premising that even in the case of private houses, the
							shattered edifices should be rebuilt from their foundations. This rebuilding can be
							clearly traced in numerous instances, the debased fashion of the day and the hurried,
							careless work of the artificers standing out in strong contrast to the architectural
							unity and classic style of the older buildings, which Greek taste had erected in a
							happier age of art. This may specially be seen in the Forum, where some of the Doric
							stone pillars of the Greek period were replaced by marble ones of Roman style, and the
							poorest proportions.

						Moreover, the restorers modified the architecture of the public buildings very
							materially. They covered the columns, capitals, and cornices with ornamental reliefs
							in stucco, picked out with many-colored devices; they departed from the grand
							simplicity of the Greek originals, and introduced an inferior style contrary to the
							Greek tastes. Notwithstanding that they thus completely changed the character of the
							city for the worse, they could not, and did not sweep away Greek art altogether,
							although the city became one of perfect Roman model, according to the fashion of the
							age of Vespasian.

						Things seem to have gone pretty smoothly with them for about sixteen years after this
							great earthquake, when new shocks began to be experienced, and the superstitious
							asserted that giants had been seen in the plain and upon the mountain.
					

					

					

						A VOLCANIC ERUPTION.

						IT was, according to some, on the 23d of August, according to
							others, on the 23d of November, A. D. 79, that Mount Vesuvius was seen to send up a
							column of black smoke, spreading itself like the giant umbrella pines with which every
							one who has visited Naples is so familiar. This column was dense with volcanic matter
							thrown up from the crater beneath, and spread itself gradually far and wide, like a
							vast black cloud, until it descended upon the doomed city with a gloom as impenetrable
							as the darkness of a stormy night.

						The volcano mean while emitted without cessation, and with a loud roaring noise, a
							cloud of ashes, pumice, and red-hot stones; rain fell in torrents from time to time;
							and the whole city was convulsed by a succession of violent earthquakes. The dense
							cloud of ashes fell thick and fast, driven on by a strong wind which bore it to shores
							of Egypt and Syria, and even darkened the daylight in Rome itself.

						The best account we have of the catastrophe is written by the younger Pliny, who
							witnessed it from Misenum, and who contributed two letters on the subject to the
							historian Tacitus for insertion in his Annals. His uncle, the elder Pliny, lost his
							life in an heroic endeavor to render assistance to the city. According to Pliny the
							younger, the earthquakes and darkness experienced at Misenum were scarcely less
							alarming than those at Pompeii itself. He describes the flight of the terror-stricken
							population, the cries of the women as they searched wildly in the darkness for their
							families, whom they could recognize only by the sound of their voices. It seemed, he
							says, as if everything had come to ruin and must be engulfed by the heart or the
							flames.
					

					

					

						PLINY'S LETTERS TO TACITUS.

						

							I.

							MY uncle was at Misenum, in personal command of the fleet. The
								ninth day before the Kalends of September, at about the seventh hour, my mother
								indicated to him the appearance of a cloud of unusual size and shape. He had sunned
								himself, and next gone into his cold bath; and, after a light meal, which he took
								reposing, was engaged in study. He called for his sandals, and ascended to a spot
								from which this portent could best be seen. A cloud was rising, from what mountain
								was a matter of uncertainty to those who looked at it from a distance; afterwards it
								was known to be Vesuvius-whose appearance and form would be represented by a pine
								better than any other tree. For, after towering upwards to a great height with an
								extremely lofty stem, so to speak, it spread out into a number of branches; because,
								as I imagine, having been lifted up by a recent breeze, and having lost the support
								of this as it grew feebler, or merely in consequence of yielding to its own weight,
								it was passing away laterally. It was at one time white, at another dingy and
								spotted, according as it carried earth or ashes. To a man of my uncle's attainments,
								it seemed a remarkable phenomenon, and one to be observed from a nearer point of
								view. He ordered his fast-sailing cutter to be got ready, and, in case I wished to
								accompany him, gave me leave to do so. I replied that I preferred to go on with my
								studies, and it so happened that he had himself given me something to write out.

							He was in the act of leaving the house, when a note was handed him from Rectina.
								Csius Bassus, frightened, together with the people there, at the imminence of the
								peril (for his villa lay under the mountain, and there was  no escape for him except by taking a ship) begged my uncle to rescue him
								from so critical a situation. Upon this he changed his plan, and, having started on
								his enterprise as a student, proceeded to carry it out in the spirit of a hero. He
								launched his four-ranked galleys, and embarked in person, in order to carry
								assistance, not to Rectina only, but to many others, for the charms of the coast
								caused it to be much peopled. He hastened in the direction whence every one else was
								flying, holding a direct course, and keeping his helm set straight for the peril, so
								free from fear that he dictated and caused to be noted down, as fast as he seized
								them with his eyes, all the shiftings and shapes of the dreadful prodigy. Ashes were
								already falling on the ship, hotter and thicker the nearer they approached; and even
								pumice and other stones, black and scorched, and cracked by the fire. There had been
								a sudden retreat of the sea, and the debris from the mountain made the shore
								unapproachable. Having hesitated for a moment whether to turn back, he shortly
								called out to the helmsman (who was urging him to do so), "Fortune favors the brave!
								Make in the direction of Pomponianus." The latter was at Stabiae, separated from him
								by the whole width of the bay, for the sea flows in by shores gradually winding and
								curving inwards. There, in view of the danger which, though it had not yet
								approached, was nevertheless manifest, and must be upon them as soon as it extended
								itself, he had got his effects together on board ship, resolved to fly, if only the
								wind left off blowing from the opposite quarter. My uncle, brought to shore by this
								same wind, which precisely favored him, embraced his trembling friend, consoling and
								exhorting him, and, in order to calm his fears by his own sang froid, bade them
								conduct him to the bath. After bathing, he took his place at table. and  dined gaily, or (which was equally heroic) with an air
								of gaiety.

							Meanwhile, from many points of Mount Vesuvius, vast Sheets of flame and tall
								columns of fire were blazing, the flashes and brightness of which were heightened by
								the darkness of night. My uncle, to soothe the terrors of those about him, kept
								telling them that these were fires which the frightened country people had left to
								burn, and that the deserted houses were blazing away all by themselves. Then he gave
								himself up to repose, and slept a perfectly genuine sleep, for his snoring (which,
								in consequence of his full habit, was heavy and loud) was heard by those in
								attendance about his door.

							However, the courtyard from which this suite of rooms was approached was already so
								full of ashes mixed with pumice-stones that its surface was rising, and a longer
								stay in the bedchamber would have cut off all egress. On being aroused, he came
								forth and rejoined Pomponianus and the others who had kept watching. They consulted
								together whether to remain under cover or wander about in the open; for the walls
								nodded under the repeated and tremendous shocks, and seemed, as though dislodged
								from their foundations, to be swaying to and fro, first in one direction and then in
								another. On the other hand, in the open air, there was the fall of the pumice-stones
								(though they were light and burnt out) to be apprehended. However, a comparison of
								dangers led to the choice of the latter course. With my uncle indeed it was a case
								of one reason getting the better of another; while in the case of others fear
								overcame fear. They covered their heads with pillows tied round with cloths: this
								was their way of protecting themselves against the shower. By this time it was day
								elsewhere, but there it was night, the blackest and thickest  of all nights, which, however, numerous torches and lights of various
								kinds served to alleviate. It was decided to make for the shore, in order to learn
								from the nearest point whether the sea was by this time at all available. A huge and
								angry sea still continued running. Here, reclining on a cloth which had been thrown
								on the ground, my uncle more than once called for a draught of cold water and
								swallowed it. Upon this, an outbreak of flame and smell of sulphur, premonitory of
								further flames, put some to flight and roused him. With the help of two slave-boys
								he rose from the ground, and immediately fell back, owing (as I gather) to the dense
								vapor obstructing his breath and stopping up the access of his gullet, which with
								him was weak and narrow and frequently subject to wind. When day returned (the third
								from that which he had looked upon for the last time) his body was found whole and
								uninjured, in the dress he wore; its appearance was that of one asleep rather than
								dead.

							Mean while my mother and I at Misenum-- however, this has nothing to do with
								history, nor did you wish to learn anything except what related to his death. So I
								will make an end. This alone will I add, that everything related by me has been
								either matter of personal observation or else what I heard on the spot, the time of
								all others when the truth is told. Do you select what you choose. For a letter is a
								different matter from a history; it is one thing to writ, to a friend and another to
								write for the world.
						
					

					

						II.

						You say that the letter I wrote you, at your request, or the subject of my uncle's
							death has made you wish to know what I myself, when left behind at Misenum-- for with
							the mention of this I broke off-- had to go through, not merely in the way of alarms,
							but of actual adventures.

						

						"Though memory shuns the theme, I will begin."

						After the departure of my uncle I devoted what time was left to study (it was for
							that I remained behind); the bath shortly followed, then dinner, then a short and
							troubled sleep. There had been heavings of the earth for many days before this, but
							they produced the less apprehension from being customary in Campania. On that night,
							however, they so much increased that everything seemed not so much to be in motion as
							to be turned upside down. My mother rushed into my room; I was similarly getting up
							with the intention of arousing her in case she was asleep. We sat down in a courtyard
							attached to the house, which separated by a small space the dwelling from the sea. I
							do not know whether to style it intrepidity or imprudence on my part, seeing that I
							was only in my eighteenth year; however, I called for a volume of Livy, and read it as
							though quite at ease, and even made extracts from it, as I had begun to do. Upon this,
							a friend of my uncle's, who had lately come to him from Spain, when he saw my mother
							and me seated and me reading into the bargain, reproved her for her apathy and me for
							my insensibility to danger. None the less diligently did I devote myself to my book.
							It was now seven o'clock in the morning, yet still there was but a kind of sickly and
							doubtful light; now, too, that the surrounding buildings had been shaken, as the place
							in which we were, though not under cover, was of small dimensions, there was a great
							and unavoidable risk of our being overwhelmed. Then, at last, we decided on leaving
							the town. The mass of the inhabitants followed us terror-stricken, and (an effect of
							panic causing it to resemble prudence) preferring the guidance of others to their own,
							they pressed on us, as we were making off, and impelled us forwards with their crowded
							ranks. When  we had got beyond the buildings we stopped.
							There we experienced much that was strange, and many terrors. For the vehicles which
							we had ordered to be brought out, though standing on a perfectly level plain, were
							rocking from one side to the other, and would not remain still in the same place even
							when propped under with stones.

						Moreover, we saw the sea sucked back into itself, and repulsed as it were by the
							quaking of the earth. The shore had certainly encroached on the sea, and retained a
							number of marine animals on its dry sands. On the other side of us a black and
							terrible cloud, broken by the zigzag and tremulous careerings of the fiery element,
							was parting asunder in long trains of flame: these were like lightning, but on a
							larger scale. Then, indeed, the above-mentioned friend from Spain became more urgent
							and pressing. "If," said he, "your brother and your uncle is alive, it is his wish
							that you should be in safety; if he has perished, it was his wish that you should
							survive him. Why then hesitate to escape?" We replied that we could not so act as,
							while uncertain of his safety, to provide for our own. Without further delay he rushed
							off, and got out of reach of danger as fast as he could.

						Not long after, the cloud in question descended on the earth and covered the sea.
							Already it had enveloped and hidden from view Capreae, and blotted out the promontory
							of Misenum. Upon this my mother begged and prayed and even ordered me to make my
							escape as best I could, it being in my power as a young man to do so; as for herself,
							retarded by her years and her frame, she was well content to die provided she had not
							been the cause of my death. I, on the other hand, declared that I would not be saved
							except in her company, and clasping her hand I compelled her to quicken her pace. She
							obeyed with reluctance,  blaming herself for delaying
							me. And now came a shower of ashes, though as yet but a thin one. I looked back; a
							dense mist was closing in behind us, and following us like a torrent as it streamed
							along the ground. "Let us turn aside," said I, "while we can still see, lest we be
							thrown down in the road and trampled upon in the darkness by the crowd which
							accompanies us." We had scarcely sat down when night came on, not such as it is when
							there is no moon, or when there are clouds, but the night of a closed place with the
							lights put out. One could hear the shrieks of the women, the cries for help of the
							children, the shouts of the men: some were calling for their parents, others for their
							young ones, others for their partners and recognizing them by their voices. Some were
							lamenting their own case, others that of those dear to them. There were those who,
							through fear of death, invoked death. Many raised their hands to the gods, but the
							greater number concluded that there were no longer gods anywhere, and that the last
							eternal night of story had settled on the world. Nor were there wanting those who by
							imaginary and false alarms increased the real dangers. Some present announced that
							such and such a part of Misenum had been overthrown, or such another was in flames;
							falsely, yet to believing ears. There was a little light again, but this seemed to us
							not so much daylight as a sign of approaching fire. Accordingly there was fire, but it
							stayed at a considerable distance from us, then darkness again and a thick and heavy
							shower of ashes. We got up from time to time and shook these off us; otherwise we
							should have been covered with them and even crushed by their weight. I might make a
							boast of not having suffered to escape me either a groan or a word lacking in
							fortitude, in the midst of such perils, were it not for the  fact that I believed myself to be perishing in company of all things, and
							all things with me, a miserable and yet a mighty consolation in death.

						At last, this black mist grew thin, and went off into a kind of smoke or haze; soon
							came real day, and the sun even shone forth, luridly, however, and with the appearance
							it usually wears under an eclipse. Our yet trembling eyes saw everything changed and
							covered with deep ashes as with snow. We returned to Misenum, and refreshed our
							persons as best we might, and there spent a night of suspense alternating between hope
							and fear. Fear prevailed, for the quaking of the earth continued, and many persons,
							crazy with terror, were sporting with their own and other's misfortunes by means of
							the most appalling predictions. Yet not even then, after experiencing and still
							expecting perils, did we think of going away till news came of my uncle. All this,
							which is in no way worthy of history, will be for you to read, not to write about, and
							you must lay it to your own account (since it was you who called for the
							communication) if it should seem to you not even worthy of a letter.
					

					

					
						FINDING OF POMPEII.

						ON the third day the darkness began to disappear, and the sun
							shone pale as through a fog, or as in an eclipse; the ruins were covered with ashes
							and pumice-stone, and from time to time fresh earthquakes led the population to think
							that their danger was not yet over.

						When confidence was restored, the survivors set to work to recover such of their lost
							property as they could reach, and it is evident that they succeeded in finding a good
							deal that was valuable, as there can be no doubt that many of  the principal houses were rifled of their chief treasures. Whether the
							owners were the only persons to profit by these early excavations is a matter of
							doubt, several indications having been found which lead us to suppose that many
							thieves searched the ruins with the view of obtaining booty, and of this there is a
							notable example in the case of a skeleton found in the Street of Stabiae with a
							lantern and pickax, the remains of a man who it is assumed was buried alive while
							engaged in excavating the ruins. Titus, who was the reigning emperor at the time of
							the catastrophe, came with much energy to the assistance of the cities. He sent down
							some senators to organize the relief of the destitute, and ordered the town to be
							rebuilt; but whether the gigantic nature of the undertaking baffled him, or the cares
							of the state diverted his mind to other matters, has never yet been satisfactorily
							shown. At all events, the idea was abandoned, and Pompeii, little by little,
							completely disappeared, hidden under the other earth which the rains accumulated, and
							under the fields and vineyards which grew there. Centuries passed over the city, which
							was almost forgotten.

						Learned men and archeologists remembered it only by fame, because the traces of the
							place where it once arose had been totally lost. The amphitheater, however, on account
							of its particular shape had not been filled up, but had preserved a form of ditch. No
							doubt, in some spots fragments jutted out, which pointed to a construction of old
							times. The natives called this place Civita, which doubtless refers
							to an ancient city. No one seems to have troubled himself to search for the lost city,
							till in 1592 the Architect Fontana, in cutting an aqueduct to convey the waters of the
							Sarno, discovered the foundations of some ancient buildings, and a few inscriptions.
							But even then 
							
								PANORAMA OF THE POMPEII EXCAVATIONS.
							
							 it occurred to no one that Pompeii had been hit upon,
							the solution being that' some remains of the ancient Stabia had come to light.

						It was not till 1748, in the reign of Charles III., the Bourbon King, and after the
							discovery of Herculaneum had drawn the attention of learned men to the matter, that
							some statues found by some peasants led to the belief that the site of Pompeii had
							been discovered, and some convicts were set to work upon the earliest excavations.

						Winckclmann, who visited Pompeii in 1757, made an assertion that the work was being
							carried on so slowly that four generations would find them still searching for the
							ruins. Notwithstanding the protests of these experts, things went on as before. It was
							not till 1860 that the matter was taken scientifically in hand, and a regular plan
							formed for grappling with the difficulty and reducing the plan of the excavations into
							a definite order. From this date everything was changed, and the excavations conducted
							by qualified persons, and on a regular system. Every work of art was conscientiously
							preserved, and a careful record kept of all things of interest. Nothing was so small
							that it did not receive its due attention.

						Pompeii was therefore splendid on account of her monuments, illustrious for love of
							country and civil life, and renowned for the products of her lands and for flourishing
							trade.

						When we passed through this city, there were yet to be seen the long rows of
							buildings in ruins. The streets, paved with large stones in some places, bear the deep
							indentations or tracks made by the wagons, chariots, etc. The original roofs of the
							houses are gone, but the walls of many of them are standing as they were before the
							eruption. Other walls have been partially rebuilt by modern hands. 
							
								THE HERCULANEUM GATE, AS IT IS TO-DAY.
							
							
								THE TEMPLE OF FORTUNE-- POMPEII.
							
							 We were permitted to enter the houses and various
							rooms. In some places are yet to be seen the paintings upon the walls which are still
							in a state of preservation. In some rooms are paintings of a licentious nature to such
							an extent that ladies are not permitted to enter the rooms.

						The destruction of life in the city was undoubtedly almost instantaneous. Probably
							the falling of ashes and lapilli was preceded by stifling sulphuric gases, causing
							immediate death, as it was in the recent eruptions of Mount Pelee. Then came the
							shower of ashes deeply covering and keeping the bodies in a perfect state of
							preservation. After many centuries the city was found almost as it was in the day of
							its destruction. To be sure, many of the buildings were crushed to a ruinous heap, and
							doubtless many things were destroyed by the burning emanations from the fiery crater.
							The positions of many of the bodies when found, and the paintings, inscriptions,
							statues, etc., show that it was a city of great vice, wickedness, and immorality of
							the deepest hue. Probably for this reason it suffered the fate of Sodom and Gomorrah.
							In the city is a museum showing some of the bodies and other preservations. In Naples
							is another museum containing the most notable preservations of this ruined city. One
							room, showing the very intimation of vice and immoralities, can be visited only by
							special permission.
					

					

					

						OTHER ERUPTIONS.

						DURING the past centuries there have been known to be about fifty
							other noted eruptions of Mount Vesuvius. It may be of interest to give a short
							narration of one in the year 1872.

						"On the night of the 25th of April, a party of ladies  and gentlemen went up Vesuvius in order to enjoy,
								closer at hand, this awful but splendid sight. The lava-streams had ceased flowing,
								and only a small branch was glowing brightly from the base of the cone. The
								disappointed visitors resolved to venture close to it. This Professor Palmieri
								strongly advised them not to do, as it would take them two hours to get there over
								fields and scori left by former lavas, a path both difficult and dangerous by
								night, and because the instruments were so restless that an eruption might be looked
								for from one moment to another. Warnings were in vain. Accompanied only by a very
								inexperienced guide these unfortunates left the Observatory towards midnight. About
								4 A. M. they got near the burning lava, but, almost at the same moment, the eruption
								began, and the small cone sank into the abyss with a frightful noise, a great
								fissure opened in the side of the mountain, and a torrent of fire flooded the place,
								accompanied by blazing projectiles from the upper crater. Many of these
								unfortunates, enveloped in smoke, struck by projectiles, and over-taken by the lava,
								disappeared beneath the torrent. Two were taken up dead, and eleven were found
								severely injured. Most of these died either in the hospital or on the way to
								it."
					

					

					

						A VISIT TO MOUNT VESUVIUS.

						IT was on the morning of the 8th of March, 1904, that we left the
							city of Naples in company with about seventy-five persons and visited Mount Vesuvius.
							Carriages, each drawn by three horses, were procured, and after a drive to the other
							side of the city we found ourselves winding our way up the mountainside, but one
							o'clock in the afternoon found us only about half way up. From the outer edge of the
							city were to be seen piles of lava which had been thrown  from the crater centuries ago. As we wended our way along, we saw hundreds and
							thousands of acres of the black and dark-colored lava, which had been poured out in a
							molten mass, leaving the place without a particle of vegetation, as if it had been
							deposited only yesterday. In places it would be almost level, then again piled up,
							forming small hills and mountain-like places with valleys between. Finally we reached
							the station where there was a tram-car, or electric line. Upon this we rode for half
							or three quarters of an hour, which brought us to an incline railway extending up the
							steep mountainside for probably something near a mile. After reaching the top of this
							incline railway, we then were obliged to walk the remainder of the distance to the top
							of the mountain, which was about thirty rods. From here for quite a distance no solid
							path could be made, as under our feet were only ashes and fine, light cinders, and in
							many places our feet would sink into the ashes and cinders to, our ankles. Here were
							government guides to look after the visitors, to help them and see that they were
							properly protected.

						When we came within a few rods of the top, there was a more solid path, which now and
							then led beside a hole or crevice in the side of the mountain where heat and smoke
							were issuing, and the mouth of which was covered with brimstone or sulphur. These
							places were so hot as to almost burn our hands in an instant. After coming within
							about thirty feet of the top of the crater, we came to a rather level place for a few
							feet, somewhat like a little valley. Just as this place was reached the wind changed
							and for a few moments brought sulphuric smoke from the mouth of the crater down upon
							us, and its stifling, smothering fumes were almost suffocating; but on we went and
							climbed to the very top of the crater, from which the smoke  was raising high in the air and heat issuing from the burning, seething,
							molten mass below. The smoke was so dense as to make it impossible to see down into
							the crater, only as the wind would now and then move the smoke to one side for a few
							moments, making it possible to see down one side to quite a depth. We were near enough
							the edge to tale our hands and push the ashes down into the burning depths. Small
							pieces of rocks or lava were thrown down into the pit, and after waiting some length
							of time, which seemed to be almost a minute, there was a strange rumbling, thundering
							noise down in the depths below like approaching thunder; and soon melted rock and lava
							could be seen flying high in the air, as if sent up by a blast of powder. Near by were
							holes through the crust in the side of the crater, where smoke and heat were issuing
							forth, with sulphur and brimstone. In viewing those places and looking down into the
							crater itself, one was very much reminded of the description the Revelator gives of
							the bottomless pit.

						People are constantly visiting the place. While in some respects there is no danger,
							yet there is no telling when there will be a sudden outburst, destroying the whole top
							of the mountain. It is truly one of the wonderful works of nature, and reminds a
							person of the judgment to come, when the Lord shall cause the earth to melt with
							fervent heat. "He looketh on the earth, and it trembleth: he toucheth the hills, and
							they smoke." Psa. 104: 32.

						During the month of September, since our visit there, Vesuvius became more active,
							and has been sending forth ashes and lava. The whole top of the mountain where we
							stood has fallen into the burning mass below, causing a mighty upheaval, and outburst
							of burning, molten lava, destroying a portion of the incline railway over which we
							traveled. People from the base of the mountain fled for 
							
								AN EGYPTIAN GOD.
							
							 safety and special police were stationed to prevent
							people from visiting the scene of eruption.

						I distributed literature in different places in Italy, and afterwards sent some to
							over two hundred English-speaking people in Rome and elsewhere in Italy, trusting that
							it would be seed sown upon good ground and yield much fruit unto the Lord in due
							season.
					

					

					

						FROM ITALY TO EGYPT.

						ON the 9th of March we started from Naples, Italy, across the
							Mediterranean Sea, stopping a few hours at Mesina, Sicily. The sea was smooth, making
							the voyage a pleasant one. Sunday morning, March 13, we arrived at Alexandria, Egypt.
							This was at one time a great center of education and learning. During the rule of
							Julius Caesar over four hundred thousand volumes of the great library at that place
							were destroyed by fire. During the second and third centuries there was a flourishing
							church at this city, which was one of the four great central points of the Christians
							at that time. Tertullian, Origen, and Clement, were early writers who lived here. It
							was here also that the Septuagint Version of the Old. Testament was made, by order of
							Ptolemy I., who was king at that time. With great care and expense he had secured a
							very large library of a copy of every important book accessible. He was desirous of a
							copy of a book of the belief of the Jews, therefore gave orders for a translation of
							the Old Testament from the Hebrew into the Greek. This is sometimes called the
							LXX.

						We were now in an Oriental country, a land which furnished much Bible history. It was
							in this land that the church of God flourished during the first centuries of the  Christian era. It was but a short distance to the place
							where the Pharaohs lived, where Joseph was brought down into Egypt after having been
							sold by his brethren, and now we were soon to traverse the country over which he was
							made overseer in gathering the products of the land to prepare for the famine. It was
							here that the children of Israel were under bondage to the Pharaohs, and were beaten
							and oppressed by the taskmasters. It was in this land that Moses was born, and hidden
							among the flags and rushes, and afterwards lived in the king's palace. It is the noted
							scene of the plagues of Egypt; of the blood sprinkled upon the lintels of the doorways
							of the houses of the children of Israel, and the destroying angel passing over, which
							circumstance brought about the observation of the feast of the passover, which the
							Jews afterwards observed. It is also the place where Moses led the children of Israel
							out of the bondage of Egypt to the Red Sea, crossing it as the waters parted, and the
							army of Pharaoh following was over-whelmed with the surging waters; and the journey of
							Moses and the children of Israel for forty years in the wilderness beyond the sea. The
							scenes in Egypt not only bring to the mind of the traveler the incidents mentioned,
							but many other circumstances and transactions among the people which vividly portray
							the power of God and show his dealing with his people and with their enemies.

						A few hours after our arrival in Alexandria we were on our way to Cairo, a distance
							of one hundred and thirty miles, at which place we arrived a few minutes after noon.
							Upon our arrival at the hotel we went to our room and thanked God for his protection
							over us and for our safe arrival in the land of the Pharaohs, and asked him to open up
							a door of utterance that we might be able to present the gospel to the people in
							Egypt. At five o'clock in the afternoon 
							
								EGYPTIAN MUMMIES.
							
							 we went to the American Mission. The services had
							already commenced, and we were quietly escorted to seats. In a few minutes the leader
							of the services arose and said, "We notice there are some American missionaries who
							have just entered the room. We should be pleased to hear from them; therefore the
							meeting will now be turned over to them." Under such circumstances we could not well
							refuse, as we had previously asked the Lord to open unto us a door of utterance, and
							now without any further asking it was opened according to our request. We all had a
							chance to testify and also to present the glorious gospel of full salvation. Many
							seemed interested in the way of a deeper spiritual life, and were anxiously inquiring
							the way. This opened the way for us to attend other services, and for one of the
							sisters to receive a special invitation to a woman's Bible reading.

						Egypt, although a part of Africa, is under the control of the English government. In
							the cities there are a number of English-speaking people. Although the leading
							religion is Mohammedanism, the way seems to be opening for the gospel of Jesus Christ,
							and doubtless a good work can be done there by gospel workers who are filled with the
							Holy Spirit, and who preach and practise the full gospel.

						The next day after our arrival we visited the pyramids, seven miles from Cairo. There
							is a street-car line extending from the city of Cairo to a place near the pyramids.
							The pyramids furnish us the oldest and most renowned monuments of human industry yet
							discovered. There are three pyramids at this place, the construction of which began
							several centuries before Christ, and no doubt a great length of time was required to
							complete their construction. These were used as tombs for the kings. They are built of
							large stones in different layers or steps, which are from 
							
								EGYPTIAN BEDOUIN, NATIVE AND CAMELS.
							
							 two to four feet in height. Each layer of stone is
							placed in order, the one above being set in two or three feet, sufficient to give the
							building of the same a proper slant or incline. The largest of these is four hundred
							and fifty-one feet in height, the length of each side over seven hundred and fifty
							feet, and the height of each sloping side five hundred and sixty-eight feet. This
							pyramid covers an area of about thirteen acres.

						From the end of the street-car line we rode camels to the Sphinx and around the large
							pyramid. It seemed that we were so close to them that it would not be necessary for us
							to ride, but the guide insisted that it was necessary to ride. Standing at the end of
							the street-car line, we could scarcely realize that the pyramid could possibly cover
							thirteen acres of ground, or that it was more than a very few rods to the Sphinx; but
							it required two or three hours to make the journey and necessary examinations of the
							places. Three of us went to the top of the largest pyramid. Tickets had to be secured
							from the government officer. No one was allowed to ascend without securing tickets,
							and the tickets included three guides to each person. These guides were Bedouins,
							natives of Egypt, who generally inhabit the deserts. Years ago the government did not
							oversee this part of the protection of travelers; and we were told that people had
							fallen from some of the places and received injuries, and that others were thrown from
							the pyramids by the Bedouins because they would not give them "backshish."

						These guides can scale the sides of the pyramids with great rapidity, while the
							average traveler, even with the help of three guides, must frequently stop to rest.
							These guides are paid by the government for their services. In ascending, a guide is
							on either side of the traveler, holding 
							
								CROCODILE HUNTERS ON THE RIVER NILE.
							
							 his arm, or climbing on the high step or terrace and
							pulling him up while the other guide pushes from behind. In descending, there is a
							guide on either side, and the one behind has a rope a few feet in length fastened
							around the body of the traveler to prevent him from accident by falling. As the sun
							was shining clear and bright, we did not go far until a feeling of fatigue came over
							us; and the guides, while they showed no signs of exhaustion, were now ready to stop,
							as they were out of hearing of the government officers, and now began the plea for
							something of which every traveler in Egypt and Palestine is familiar. No sooner had we
							stopped and were seated on the edge of the rugged rocks, than our nine guides began
							their earnest plea for "backshish." This is the word for money. They began holding out
							their hands to us saying, "Backshish, backshish, backshish," and thus from the time of
							the first rest until we reached the base upon our return we were constantly pestered
							by hearing these words. Upon reaching the top we found a space of about twenty feet
							which was sufficiently level for us to take a rest, which was much enjoyed, except for
							the continual teasing of the guides for "backshish," or to sell us some small coins
							for relics, or asking for a good sum of money to be given them that we might watch
							them run down the side of the pyramid to the top of the next one and back again in ten
							minutes. However, we did not care to see them make the trip, although it required much
							more than ten minutes for us to descend one of them.

						Here upon this elevated position was a striking view. We could look out upon the
							river Nile and over the great desert, the plateau of rocks, the Sphinx, and the other
							pyramids. There is an opening into the interior of the great pyramid; but as our time
							was limited, and it was only a place of dampness and darkness through low narrow
							passages near 
							
								LOOKING UP THE N. E. CORNER OF THE GREAT PYRAMID WHERE
										TOURISTS ASCEND, EGYPT.
								From stereograph copyright 1904 by Underwood & Underwood,
										New York.
							
							 the entrance, we did not enter, To those who have the
							time to enter this long passage-way into the heart of this great pyramid there is
							generally a feeling of satisfaction, that they have been well repaid for the endurance
							of the fatiguing journey.
					

					

					

						THE SPHINX.

						NEAR the Great Pyramid is the wonderful and famous monument in
							this burial-ground known as the Sphinx, which is hewn out of natural rock, with some
							additional masonry. It was made to represent the body of a lion resting, the head of
							which represents that of a man. Although the body was left in the rough form, great
							care was used in the sculpture-work of the head. During some sieges of warfare it was
							somewhat damaged. The entire height of this monument, from the crown of the head to
							the base upon which the legs of the lion rest, is said to be sixty-six feet. The ear
							is said to be four and one-half feet in length, the nose five feet and seven inches,
							the mouth seven feet and seven inches, and the extreme breadth of the face thirteen
							feet and eight inches. In the picture will be seen a man standing with its arms lifted
							upright, which gives some idea of the magnitude of this statue. The; man standing
							below the ear is an average-sized Egyptian, who was very anxious to take his position
							there when the photograph was taken.
					

					

					

						THE PHARAOHS OF EGYPT.

						HERE we were at the edge of the great Sahara Desert. One who has
							never seen a desert can scarcely imagine what it would be to be out upon this vast
							territory of sand. It frequently happens that people who undertake to cross 
							
								THE SPHINX-- NEAR CAIRO, EGYPT.
							
							 this desert perish from the heat or the effects of the
							sand-storm. To be out in the middle of the great Sahara Desert, where, like upon the
							ocean, from horizon to horizon no vegetation can be seen, day after day may be
							traveled, and in places week after week, and the only sight that meets the vision is
							that of sand and sky, with the sun shining down with scorching heat. It frequently
							happens that whole caravans of people with their camels perish in time of sand-storms.
							When a storm is approaching, the camels lie down in the best position for their
							protection. Ofttimes the storms are so severe as to cause the sand to collect like
							drifts of snow. In fact, the very air is filled with sand and dust.

						When we were about ready to leave Port Said for India, there came a sand-storm just
							about the time the ship was to leave to sail through the Suez Canal. The storm
							increased insomuch that the air was so filled with sand that it detained our vessel
							about four hours.

						At Cairo is a place where a large museum of Egyptian mummies and gods, or idols for
							worship, are kept. Here are to be seen many old Egyptian works of antiquity. The
							ancient Egyptians had a way of preserving the bodies of their dead. After being
							properly embalmed they were carefully wrapped with a kind of papyrus or covering of
							some kind that has withstood the wear of ages. The dead bodies thus preserved are
							called mummies. They have been buried or hidden away in stone vaults for many
							centuries, and during the last century many have been discovered. Among these mummies
							is one of very great interest, especially to Bible readers. It is said to be that of
							Rameses II., who was the "Pharaoh who knew not Joseph," and the one who so oppressed
							the children of Israel, and caused them to be in bondage for many years.

						God afterwards sent Moses to ask for the release of 
							
								RAMESES II.-- THE PHARAOH WHO OPPRESSED TIIE CHILDREN OF
										ISRAEL.
							
							 his people. When Moses received this call, he felt his
							weakness and inabilities. As we crossed the river Nile on a small sail-boat, and
							realized that we were where Moses had been many times and near where he was reared and
							educated during his childhood in the king's palace and where he could also see the
							rigid rule of Pharaoh and with what power and rigor he dealt with the children of
							Israel, with vivid remembrance came to our minds the time when God called him to go
							forth as a chosen vessel to lead the people out from the hand of Pharaoh. Poor man! he
							felt his weakness indeed. God had called him to a work that required a combat with the
							great monarchal ruler of the land. He was to take this despised people from this
							wicked ruler's hand; but how could it be done? Every one seemed to be subject to the
							command of Pharaoh; when he spoke, that meant obedience. Cod had showed himself mighty
							to Moses. and now he must show Moses to be mighty before Pharaoh. God said to Moses,
							"Come now therefore, and I will send thee unto Pharaoh, that thou mayest bring forth
							my people the children of Israel out of Egypt." Ex. 3: 10.

						Moses felt more like fleeing from the presence of the Lord, realizing his inabilities
							for such a great work. "And Moses said unto God, Who am I, that I should go unto
							Pharaoh, and' that I should bring forth the children of Israel out of Egypt? And he
							said, Certainly I will be with thee." Ex. 3: 11, 12.

						While Moses was trying to find excuses, "the Lord said unto him, What is that in
								thine hand? And he said, A rod. And he said, Cast it on the ground. And he cast it
								on the ground, and it became a serpent; and Moses fled from before it. And the Lord
								said unto Moses, Put forth thine hand, and take it by the tail. And he put forth his
								hand and caught it, and it became a rod in his hand."

						

						But still Moses said, "O my Lord, I am not eloquent, neither heretofore nor since
							thou hast spoken unto thy servant: but I am slow of speech, and of a slow tongue. And
							the Lord said unto him, Who hath made man's mouth? or who maketh the dumb, or deaf, or
							the seeing, or the blind? have not I the Lord? Now therefore go and I will be with thy
							mouth, and teach thee what thou shalt say." And yet after all this Moses did not want
							to go except the Lord sent some one with him. This hesitation and lack of confidence
							in God displeased the Lord. So the Lord sent Aaron to aid Moses in speaking to the
							people.

						Some time after this when Moses went forth to Pharaoh, whose heart was hardened, the
							Lord enabled Moses to work signs and miracles in the sight of Pharaoh; and upon his
							refusal to let the people go through the instrumentality of Moses, God had Moses to
							smite the river Nile, and the waters of the river were turned to blood. The fish in
							the river died, and the people could not drink of the water of the river. Also the
							other rivers and the ponds and the pools became blood. This was done in the sight of
							Pharaoh and his servants. Pharaoh would not obey, and one plague after another was
							sent upon him and the land; but finally, when the plague of the first-born came, he
							yielded, and permitted them to leave.

						As we sailed over the waters of the Nile, we could scarcely realize that this was
							really the same river that was turned into blood, and the same country wherein these
							wonderful works were wrought and the manifestations of the power of God were seen;
							nevertheless such was the case. Not only so, but to this land the Lord ordered Joseph
							to take the young child Jesus and escape the wrath and cruelties of Herod, the ruler
							in the land of Bethlehem.

						"And when they were departed, behold, the angel of 
								the Lord appeareth to Joseph in a dream, saying, Arise, and take the young child and
								his mother, and flee into Egypt, and be thou there until I bring thee word: for
								Herod will seek the young child to destroy him. When he arose, he took the young
								child and his mother by night, and departed into Egypt: and was there until the
								death of Herod: that it might be fulfilled which was spoken of the Lord by the
								prophet, saying, Out of Egypt have I called my son." Mat. 2: 13-15.

						As we traveled through Egypt, we beheld the beautiful land of Goshen. It was here
							Jacob in his old age came down to meet Joseph. "He sent Judah before him unto
								Joseph, to direct his face unto Goshen; and they came into the land of Goshen. And
								Joseph made ready his chariot, and went out to meet Israel his father, to Goshen,
								and presented himself unto him; and he fell on his neck, and wept on his neck a good
								while. And Israel said unto Joseph, Now let me die, since I have seen thy face,
								because thou art yet alive." Gen. 46: 28-30.

						Joseph went and told Pharaoh concerning his father and brethren, and Pharaoh said,
							"The land of Egypt is before thee; in the best of the land make thy father and
							brethren to dwell; in the land of Goshen let them dwell." Gen. 47: 6. However, it was
							another Pharaoh (Rameses II.) who became ruler afterwards and so oppressed the
							children of Israel, and who was succeeded by his son Mineptah II., who was Pharaoh of
							the Exodus, and with whom Moses had to deal, and who was drowned in the Red Sea.
					

					

					

						MANNERS AND CUSTOMS IN EGYPT.

						MANY of the men and women in Egypt dress almost alike. Their skin
							is of a dark color. Many of the women 
							
								MOHAMMEDAN WOMEN.
							
							 wear a head-covering, with a piece of wood fastened
							over the nose, extending almost to the top of the forehead. Some women are to be seen
							sitting in the dirt selling bread or articles of antiquity, which they call "antique."
							They beg, pick lice from the heads or clothing of others, or do almost anything to
							make a living.

						In North Africa the burros, or small donkeys, are the beasts of burden, which,
							together with the women, carry almost all the produce of the country, sand, gravel,
							stone, and building material. In Egypt, besides the donkeys, camels are much used as
							beasts of burden. The ground is very rich and productive along the Nile in the land of
							Goshen. The plowing reminded us very much of the days of Abraham, as they plow with
							the old-fashioned wooden plows, drawn by an ox, a cow, a camel, a donkey, or sometimes
							one of each.

						A very common sight in Egypt is the water-carriers with their goat-skins, consisting
							of a complete skin of a goat with the ends of the legs and one end sewed up to prevent
							leaking, while the neck is used for a place to fill it with water and to empty it.
							This skin, fastened to a rope or strap thrown over the shoulders, is carried under one
							arm. Frequently the water-carriers have a bell, and for a trifle will sell a drink to
							those who are thirsty. There were many beggars in Egypt, but not so many as we were
							expecting, for we had read that Egypt was the greatest place in the world for beggars.
							Whether the begging-system had been checked somewhat by the English government, we did
							not learn. We met with many beggars, but not with so many as we did in various parts
							of Italy and Palestine. In Rome, Naples, and other places in Italy, sometimes six or
							eight or even more persons, from children to old men and women, would run along beside
							the carriages 
							
								WATER CARRIER.
							
							 for a great distance, crooking a finger at us, begging
							for money. They could not understand our language, and had not learned to say
							"backshish." How the common classes of people in Rome, Naples, and Venice would live
							were it not for the money received from the tourists and travelers, we were at a loss
							to understand. But while Egypt had her abundance of beggars, and persistent ones at
							that, hers did not equal those of some other places.

						A few years ago a certain class of Mohammedans in Egypt celebrated the tenth day of
							their month Maharam. This was a cruel, torturous festival given by the Persian
							Mohammedans residing in Egypt, in commemoration of the assassination of "El Hassan,"
							and was something similar to the festivals of the head-choppers in North Africa. One
							American writer, who was a few years ago a witness to the performances at one of those
							festivals at Cairo, after describing the surging multitude and the royal carriage,
							with other descriptive characters, said: "Suddenly far down
									the street, as emerging from some enclosure, there appeared a band of about forty
									stout men bearing torches, which flickered and blazed above their turbaned heads.
									Closely following them, riding upon a large horse, came a little boy about six
									years of age. The horse was closely covered with white cloth, striped and
									sprinkled with blood, presenting a ghastly appearance. I could scarcely believe my
									sense of sight. The child held in his hand a large sharp knife, shaped like a
									small crooked sword, which he moved about him and above his head in every
									direction, every now and then drawing the sharp blade down across his head from
									front to rear, cutting and chopping the scalp each time. With each strike of the
									sword the crimson blood streamed, or trickled, down over his forehead and face and
									body upon the white, close covering 
									
										EGYPTIAN WOMEN AND GIRLS CARRYING WATER.
									
									 of the horse, presenting a sight the most ghastly
									and horrifying one can imagine. Never a halt in the procession nor hesitancy of
									the infuriated lad lulled the stately horror of the scene.
								"This scene was closely followed by about thirty stout men dressed in long
									flowing gowns with their brawny bosoms entirely bare. As they walked they threw
									their arms wildly about them, smiting their left breast with the right hand with
									stunning and awful force. With this they cried in a pitiful mournful tone, 'El Hassen, El Hassen, El Hassen.' Infuriated with their
									demonstrations, they seemed with every stroke to almost crush their breasts as
									they moaned out 'El Hassen, El Hassen, El Hassen.'
								"This company was immediately followed by four men bearing large banners with
									devices of various kinds. Abreast with them on either side of the street appeared
									the forms of another company of about fifty, persons like the former, walking
									rather sidewise in a line, half of the company on either side of the street.
									Between this company of men rode another boy somewhat larger than the first one,
									gayly dressed, like his predecessor, having his head shaved entirely bare. He also
									held a sword somewhat larger than the first one, which he brandished steadily in
									the same manner, now and again drawing it down upon his head in a murderous
									manner, cutting a gash with every stroke, while the blood ran down over his gay
									garments. The company of men around him, like the others, cried mournfully, 'El Hassen, El Hassen, Allah, Allah, El Hassen.' Some of them held
									their hands upon their breasts. Others had their bodies bare down to their waists,
									and carried scourges made of small chains, with which they smote themselves in the
									most beastly and barbarous manner, leaving great bruises with every stroke, and
									even  inflicting gashes from which the blood oozed
									forth, and trickled down over the lower parts of their bodies.
								"A third company of the same size followed in like order, in the center of which
									also rode a boy probably nine years of age, dressed in gorgeous robes and wielding
									his sword in the same heart-sickening and demoniacal manner. His sharp, minor-key
									voice, like his predecessors, mingled in the melancholy cries of the men around
									him, 'Allah, Allah, El Hassen, El Hassen.' With almost every
									step of the horse his sword came down upon his bleeding head, carving its way to
									the skull with every stroke, while the blood flowed more freely than from any of
									the others. He seemed to be utterly reckless of all feelings of pain or fear of
									death, but went on in the insane, suicidal process with a decision and precision
									of an artist."

						This was practised every year. The boys and men who were the bloody performers in the
							ceremony were induced to do so by the fact that if they survived they believed that
							they should become saints of a peculiarly high order, and expected to receive great
							favors from Mohammed. As we heard nothing of this being continued at the present time,
							we doubt not that it ceased through the influence of the English government, as in
							like manner they interfered with similar atrocities, superstitious ideas, and
							outrageous performances among the Hindus in India, who previously to the time of
							change of government burned the India widows at the death of the husband, and in some
							places threw children into the river Ganges as a sacrifice to idols, and did many
							other like things. Nevertheless, similar performances and superstitious ceremonies are
							yet in existence in some of the less civilized nations of the world.

						At the time Elijah tested the power of his God at Mount Carmel with the four hundred
							and fifty priests of Baal,  there was a similar
							performance, as recorded in 1 Kings 18: 28. When Elijah mocked them for their lack of
							power, the prophets of Baal "cried aloud, and cut themselves after their manner with
							knives and lances, till the blood gushed out upon them."

						In our travels we met many blood-thirsty people. In some places all that held them in
							check was their fear of the power of the law or government under which they were
							living. It is quite amusing at times to know the shrewdness and credulity of some of
							the guides. A person must acquaint himself with the money system and be able to know
							the worth of the coins and money of the country, and before employing a guide make
							inquiry of the proprietor of the hotel or some other reliable person as to what amount
							should be paid to the guides and for articles to be purchased; otherwise there will be
							many impositions.

						After completing our short stay in Egypt, Brother Khan and I left for Port Said to
							make arrangements concerning baggage and tickets, leaving the remainder of the company
							in Cairo to follow the next day. While on the way, about noon we were feeling somewhat
							hungry, and Brother Khan suggested that we have a regular native luncheon, cooked and
							sold by native peddlers where the train stopped. At sight of it I was sure that a good
							look at it was more satisfactory than eating would be; however, the purchase was made,
							and as we began eating we looked far out into the desert to divert our minds as much
							as possible from the eating, but the absence of the palatableness of the food seemed
							to make a stronger impression upon our minds than things of the desert, and our native
							meal was soon finished, with quite a good supply left, which was thrown out of the
							window to satisfy the hunger of some Arabs who might have a greater relish for it.

						

						
							SCENE OF RIBER NILE-- NEAR CAIRO, EGYPT.
						

						

						Upon our arrival at Port Said we found that a ship was ready to sail for Joppa that
							afternoon, although at Cairo we had been informed there would be none to sail until
							the next evening; and as the remainder of our company was still in Cairo, we had to
							wait for their arrival the next day.

						In Egypt, the same as in Italy and many other places, there were always plenty of
							porters or servants to carry baggage; but we had learned that in order to keep track
							of the different pieces of baggage it was best to look after them ourselves, or secure
							one or two reliable porters to aid us when necessary. In Italy they were called
							fukinos. At railroad stations, midst the hurry and bustle when the train stopped,
							could be heard in every direction some one calling out, "Fukino, fukino," desiring one
							of those servants or porters to aid him.

						Ofttimes those fukinos were a real pest to the one who had some baggage. If
							permitted, they would come and each one take a piece and start off, and it was with
							great difficulty the owner could look after it or find it again, as very few of them
							could speak any but their own language. Sometimes while the owner of the baggage would
							be carrying it along, three or four on each side would have hold of it pretending to
							help carry it, and trying to get it away; and whether they were permitted to carry it
							or not, they always wanted pay. When the stopping-place was reached in Port Said, as
							we were going to the boat-landing, each of us had a small satchel strapped and
							swinging from our shoulders and larger satchels in either hand. While we were crossing
							the street, a number of these porters came, and with such impertinence and persistence
							followed us that I had to put my baggage down and keep them away with my umbrella.
							After giving them to understand that I would care for my baggage myself, I hurried to
								 where Brother Khan was being taken down the street by
							them. He was holding to the handles of his valises, and two of those fellows had
							managed to get under them and got them on their shoulders, despite the resistance he
							could give and hold to the satchels. They were rapidly taking him down the street.
							After some effort I halted them and took the baggage from their shoulders. I had to
							use my umbrella to prevent them from carrying the baggage away despite the efforts of
							us both. To permit these street porters to carry the baggage, a person must run the
							risk of losing one or two pieces at the best, especially where streets and places are
							crowded with people.
					

					

					

						FROM EGYPT TO THE HOLY LAND.

						THE next evening after our arrival the remainder of the company
							came, and we had made all arrangements to take passage over the Mediterranean on a
							Russian vessel, as that was the only one going at that time. Just before we were ready
							to start we learned that a message had been received stating that Palestine was
							quarantined against a plague in Upper Egypt. As there were no arrangements for a legal
							examination at Joppa, they told us we should be obliged to go to Beyrout, about one
							hundred and forty miles farther, and there undergo an examination, after which we
							could land or go to Joppa. We were at this time on the eve of a journey full of
							adventures and experiences. Upon going aboard the Russian ship we found it to be the
							filthiest, dirtiest vessel upon which we had ever undertaken to travel. But as there
							was no other way and our time was limited, we concluded to go, and ask the direction
							and 
							
								EGYPTIAN WOMEN GRINDING CORN.
							
							 protection of the Lord, as we had been asking his
							direction theretofore. Had we all come to Port Said the evening before we could have
							left on an earlier steamer, and probably landed at Joppa before the quarantine
							restrictions were issued. But knowing that we had everything committed to the Lord, we
							were quite sure that he would cause things to work out all right. We were reminded of
							the scripture which says, 'Everything works together for good to them that love God,'
							and we were sure that this would be the case, because we loved him. We could not
							understand the language spoken by the Russians on the vessel; however, there were a
							few among them who could speak some English.

						At first it appeared as if it would be almost impossible for us to be comfortably
							provided for as to our eating and lodging for the night, amidst all the filth that was
							to be seen on every hand, and it did not require much imagination to believe that the
							place was infested with an abundance of vermin. However, before the evening meal was
							prepared we had gone long enough without eating to relish at least a part of the food,
							which was prepared with greater neatness than we really were expecting. At a late hour
							at night the sisters of our company were crowded into a cabin with other women, and
							the remainder of us had a cabin on the other side of the vessel and managed to make
							ourselves fairly comfortable for the night.

						After sailing all night and nearly all day, some time late in the afternoon we
							arrived at the harbor by Beyrout. About three-quarters of a mile from the shore the
							anchor was dropped and a quarantine flag hoisted. After waiting for some time the
							quarantine officers came aboard the ship, and spent some time in making inquiries and
							investigations. The Egyptians were all taken in small boats to  some place on shore, where, together with their baggage, they were given a
							thorough inspection and fumigation. We had paid something more than a pound each extra
							fare to be brought to Beyrout. After waiting until almost sunset we were marched into
							another department of the vessel, where all of us wrote our names, and paid five
							piasters (25c) as fee for a certificate, which was supposed to be given with the
							medical examination, but no one gave us an examination. We were then permitted to
							land, and the first place at landing was the custom-house, through which the
							proprietor of the hotel to which we were going kindly aided us in getting with our
							baggage.

						The captain of the Russian vessel wanted us to return with them the next day to
							Joppa, which would have cost us an extra pound each; but we concluded God had not
							permitted us to come to this out-oft-he-way place for nothing, therefore did not feel
							led to return on the Russian vessel. We arranged to secure passage on a Syrian vessel,
							which was to start about noon the next day for Haifa, Palestine. At this hotel we met
							a man who claimed to be a Christian, and who said he did not belong to any
							denomination. He was a graduate of the American college of that place. We arranged
							with him to distribute some literature which should be sent afterwards. He also told
							us that he had a friend who had for some time acted as guide through Palestine, and
							who would act as our guide if we so desired, and the charges would be but very
							little.

						The next morning we met the man who was to be our guide. A guide in the Oriental
							countries is called a dragoman. This man could speak English and several other
							languages. After arranging with him to accompany us to Palestine, we began completing
							our arrangements and preparing for another voyage. Beyrout is an important city 
							
								THE CITY OF SIDON.
							
							 on the Levantine coast, and is under the Ottoman
							Dominion of Turkey.

						The manners and customs of the people and the system of administration of the
							government, as might be expected, are very peculiar. One of the peculiarities is that
							the city gate is closed at sunset, when a bugle blast is sounded from the man-of-war,
							after which none can enter the city nor leave it until the next morning. Another thing
							is that a local passport is necessary for every traveler in the country. We,
							therefore, had to procure passports from the British authorities. There was an
							assessment or fee to be collected for almost every favor, and at nearly every place we
							went to attend to business. By the aid of the proprietor of the hotel, we were enabled
							to get all arrangements completed, and we were not surprised to find that our expenses
							from the time we left the Russian ship until we went aboard the Syrian vessel the next
							day were no little amount. The charges for all being one hundred and twenty francs,
							aside from our extra fare (one pound each) that had previously been paid on the
							Russian vessel to take us to that place. Our experiences there by way of expenses
							seemed more like highway robbery than at any place which we had previously visited.
							But as we had not only been successful in procuring a guide, but had also found places
							for the distribution of literature and persons who would distribute the same, we felt
							that our extra trip and expenses were not in vain, but that God had so ordered it for
							our good and his glory. Furthermore, had we not been thus unavoidably brought to this
							place, only a part of our company would have had the privilege of visiting Nazareth,
							the Sea of Galilee, and traveling through Samaria, but would have remained in
							Jerusalem while some of us made the extra trip.

						

						
							THE CITY OF TYRE ON THE MEDITERRANEAN COAST.
						

						

						About noon we left on a Syrian vessel for Haifa, Palestine. We were now again sailing
							on the Mediterranean Sea, known in Bible language as the Great Sea. We passed near the
							place where Jonah was thrown overboard when he was trying to flee from the Lord, also
							passed by Tyre and Sidon. The buildings of the cities are modern, with some very old
							ruins of the ancient cities. Also, we passed the memorable site of Serapta or
							Zarephath, where lived the faithful widow who entertained the fugitive prophet Elijah,
							taking refuge under her roof when persecuted by King Ahab. The story is narrated in 1
							Kings 17: 8-24, and is referred to by our Lord in Luke 4: 26. The present village is
							situated on the hill very close to the ruins of the old one on the plain, and bears
							the name of Surafend, which is a corrupted Arabic form of the Zarephath of the Bible.
							As we passed by the ruins of ancient Tyre, we were reminded that this was the place of
							the residence of King Hiram, who supplied some valuable material for the temple of
							Solomon at Jerusalem. 1 Kings 5: 1-18.

						We now began to realize that we were approaching the country which is looked upon by
							people the world over as being almost a sacred place, because of the scenes and
							transactions of centuries ago, and because of the manifestations of the power of God
							among the people in those places, where Jesus walked upon the soil in traveling about
							over the Holy Land.

						We have on record that Jesus crossed the border of the land, and came into the
							country beyond which we were now passing. It was here that, while he was passing
							through this country, the Syrophenician woman mentioned in Mat. 15: 21-28 came to him
							in behalf of her daughter, who was vexed with a devil. With implicit faith and 
							
								HAIFA AND MOUNT CARMEL.
							
							 confidence in his power and authority, she pleadingly
							continued her request with such importunity and fervency that Jesus could not well
							turn her away nor refuse her request, but said unto her, "O woman, great is thy faith:
							be it unto thee even as thou wilt. And her daughter was made whole from that
							hour."
					

					

					

						ENTERING THE HOLY LAND.

						THE next morning we arrived at Haifa, which is a flourishing
							seaport of German colonists, near the base of Mount Carmel on one side, while the Bay
							of Acre lies to the north on the other side. We could look across the beautiful bay
							and see the little city of Acre, called Accho in the Old Testament (Judges 1: 31), and
							Ptolemais in the New Testament. Acts 21: 7. When Paul was returning to Jerusalem from
							his second missionary tour, he stopped at this place one day with the brethren.

						After taking breakfast with a Hebrew family while our guide was procuring a hack to
							take us to Nazareth, and Tiberias on the Sea of Galilee, the necessary arrangements
							were made for the journey. It was about eight hours' journey by hack to Nazareth. We
							had also planned to reach Tiberias on the shore of the Sea of Galilee on the same day,
							which is six or seven hours farther. In that country if you ask the distance from one
							place to another, they do not tell the number of miles, but will say it is a day's
							journey or so many hours, which would be three or four miles an hour.

						As we journeyed along we frequently asked the question, Can it be possible that we
							are in a land where our forefathers of ancient days lived, and of the patriarchs and
								
							
								AMERICAN GANG PLOW-- TURNS TEN FEET OF SOIL AT ONE
									TIME.
							
							 prophets and apostles, and upon soil where our blessed
							Savior trod? Yes, here were the same old hills and mountains and valleys between them
							where these men of old roamed. It was now the time of planting. There is but little
							change concerning the tilling of the soil and farming from that of the time of
							Abraham. The same kind of an old crooked wooden plow is used, with a short wooden peg
							near the end of the handle to hold to with one hand, while in the other hand the
							plowman carries an ox-goad. Hitched to the plow is a yoke of small oxen or cows, or a
							cow and a donkey, or a donkey and a camel. While watching them toiling, and thus
							scratching through the ground,, we often wished for a good team and an improved
							American plow, to show them how to turn the soil. The grain and hay is still cut with
							a little hand sickle, and threshed upon the ground in the open field or upon some
							large flat rock by the tramping of oxen or flailing it by hand with a stick.

						For several miles our road ran between the rugged heights of Mount Carmel on the
							right and the ancient river Kishon on the left. Along the wayside were beautiful
							flowers in abundance, whose beauty can be known only by being seen. After going a
							short distance we stopped, and while the horses were taking a rest we made use of the
							time by enjoying the scenery of ancient repute, and by gathering bouquets of beautiful
							flowers. We had not gone far until we came in full view of the place on Mount Carmel
							where the prophet Elijah tested God in the presence of the priests of Baal, and fire
							came down from heaven and consumed the sacrifice. It was there Elijah went up to pray
							for rain after there had been a drouth and famine for three years and six months. We
							also saw his place of sacrifice, and where he was praying, from which place 
							
								PLACE OF SACRIFICE-- MOUNT CARMEL.
							
							 he could not see the sea on account of an elevated
							point in the mountain, therefore he sent his servant to look out over the sea to find
							whether or not there was any sign of rain. The servant went and looked, and upon his
							return he said, "There is nothing." Elijah told him to go again, and still there was
							no sign of rain. This was continued until he had gone seven times, during which time
							Elijah was earnestly calling upon God in prayer. Having tested his God in the sight of
							the priests of Baal so shortly before this, he was not to be so easily defeated
							because there was no sign of rain. Therefore he continued his supplications unto the
							Lord; and when his servant returned to him the seventh time saying, "Behold, there
							ariseth a little cloud out of the sea like a man's hand," then was the prayer of
							Elijah suddenly ended, and he told his servant to go and tell King Ahab to hurry up,
							lest the rain overtake him. And soon the heaven was black with clouds and wind, and
							there was a great rain. The record of this incident is found in the eighteenth chapter
							of 1 Kings and Jas. 5: 18.

						We had often read this narrative in the Bible, but now to stand and behold the spot
							upon which this prophet of old prostrated himself before God with such implicit faith
							and sent up his petitions, was a source of inspiration: to us. It seemed to bring the
							words more vividly to our realization than ever before. Our hearts were inspired to
							greater confidence in God, realizing that he was not a respecter of persons, and if he
							so wonderfully answered the petitions of his servants of olden times he would answer
							the petitions of his faithful ones at the present time. The beholding of these places
							of ancient scenes and transactions not only freshened our memories and quickened our
							faith, but encouraged our hearts to push forward to greater usefulness in the vineyard
							of our Master.
					

					

					
						HARVESTING IN THE HOLY LAND.
					

					

					

						THE PLAIN OP ESDRAELON.

						AFTER leaving Mount Carmel we soon reached the beautiful Plain of
							Esdraelon, where Barak and Deborah defeated and destroyed the hosts of Sisera, as
							described in Judges fourth and fifth chapters. It was early in the afternoon when we
							arrived at Nazareth, the city which was the home of Jesus throughout his childhood.
							Here among about fifteen hills, with a narrow valley about a mile and a half wide,
							upon one of the limestone hillsides, lies Nazareth, a town of about three thousand
							inhabitants. Most of the people are Greek or Latin Catholics. There are comparatively
							few Jews and Moslems in this city. The houses have flat roofs, and the streets are
							many of them winding and very narrow. While there are some gardens and orchards, yet
							the surrounding land is not what we would call beautiful. Those who picture in their
							minds Nazareth as being surrounded by beautiful country are mistaken, as the hillsides
							appear rough, rugged, and rocky; and the situation in general would suggest the idea
							that it is still the same as in former days-a place of no great reputation, and one
							will still wonder as Nathaniel of old-- "Can any good thing come out of Nazareth?"

						The city has since the time of our Savior undergone many changes, at times being
							almost completely swept from the face of the earth during the time of war, but
							reviving again, to fall into the hands of other nations and contending powers. It was
							here that Jesus made his home for almost thirty years.

						As we traveled over the hillsides we could picture in our imaginations how in his
							youthful days he traversed those hills, no doubt as did other boys of his time. The
							people of the city little suspected the power and influence 
							
								THE CITY OF NAZARETH.
							
							 that was to be swayed by him in future years. It was
							here in Nazareth in a synagogue on a sabbath-day that he read the prophecy of Isaiah
							concerning himself, and proclaimed himself to be the promised Messiah. For so doing he
							was charged with blasphemy. He had been down to Capernaum and returned to
							Nazareth.
					

					

					

						FROM NAZARETH TO THE SEA OF GALILEE.

						"AND he came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up; and, as
							his custom was, he went into the synagogue on the sabbath-day, and stood up for to
							read. And there was delivered unto him the book of the prophet Esaias. And when he had
							opened the book, he found the place where it was written, The Spirit of the Lord is
							upon me, because he hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor; he hath sent me
							to heal the broken-hearted, to preach deliverance to the captives, and recovering of
							sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised, to preach the acceptable
							year of the Lord. And he closed the book, and he gave it again to the minister, and
							sat down.

						"And the eyes of all them that were in the synagogue were fastened on him. And he
							began to say unto them, This day is this scripture fulfilled in your ears. And all
							bare him witness, and wondered at the gracious words which proceeded out of his mouth.
							And they said, Is not this Joseph's son? And he said unto them, Ye will surely say
							unto me this proverb, Physician, heal thyself; whatsoever we have heard done in
							Capernaum, do also here in thy country.

						"And he said, Verily I say unto you, No Prophet is 
							
								CANA OF GALILEE.
							
							 accepted in his own country. But I tell you of a truth,
							many widows were in Israel in the days of Elias, when the heaven was shut up three
							years and six months, when great famine was throughout all the land; but unto none of
							them was Elias sent, save unto Sarepta, a city of Sidon, unto a woman that was a
							widow. And many lepers were in Israel in the time of Eliseus the prophet; and none of
							them was cleansed, saving Naaman the Syrian.

						"And all they in the synagogue, when they heard these things, were filled with wrath,
							and rose up, and thrust him out of the city, and led him unto the brow of the hill
							whereon their city was built, that they might cast him down headlong. But he passing
							through the midst of them went his way, and came down to Capernaum, a city of Galilee,
							and taught them on the sabbath-days. And they were astonished at his doctrine: for his
							word was with power." Luke 4: 16-32.

						Nazareth was also the place where the angel appeared to Mary, and it was where Joseph
							and Mary returned after their flight into Egypt. Mat. 2: 23. It was situated on a hill
							(Luke 4: 29) in Galilee (Mark 1: 9), and near Cana, which was fourteen miles from the
							Sea of Galilee and sixty-six miles north of Jerusalem in a direct line, but much
							farther on account of the roads winding about the hills and mountains. From the top of
							some of the hills surrounding Nazareth can be seen the mountains called Hermon,
							Carmel, Gilead, Tabor, and Gilboa, and the Plain of Esdraelon, with a beautiful view
							of the surrounding scenes, with which are connected many historic facts and bloody
							scenes of ancient times, together with mighty manifestations of the power of God.

						Leaving Nazareth, the next place of importance was Cana of Galilee. It was in this
							little village that our Lord 
							
								TIBERIAS-- SEA OF GALILEE.
							
							 performed his first miracle-- changed water into wine.
							John 2:1-11. The site which is supposed to be the same place where the house stood in
							which took place the feast was shown to us. A Latin monastery stands over it to
							preserve the historic location. Just before arriving in sight of Cana we saw another
							village on the hilltop to the left, which marked the site of the ancient Gath-hepher
							(2 Kings 14:25), which was the birthplace of the prophet Jonah.

						At the outer edge of the village of Cana is a well or spring where the people of the
							village go for water. Women and children carry the water in large vessels, or
							water-pots, placed on the top of their heads. It is no uncommon sight to see a woman
							walking along the wayside with a water-pot containing four or five gallons of water.
							With this on her head she walks leisurely along the way, frequently without supporting
							it with her hands. Here at this well the flocks of goats and herds of cattle are
							watered. While we were stopping at this well for a short time, there were flocks of
							goats waiting to be watered. We measured the ears of some of the goats, which measured
							from twelve to fourteen inches in length and two and a half inches in width. Their
							ears hang down, presenting a very peculiar appearance.

						The natives here are dark-skinned, and speak the Arabic language. Very few of them
							understand any English. Leaving Cana, we soon arrived at the foot of the
							peculiarly-shaped mountain called Karum Hattin, which is said to be the mountain upon
							which was delivered the famous Sermon on the Mount, as recorded in Mat. 5, 6, 7. The
							darkness of night had gathered around us, but the moon was rising as we proceeded down
							the winding road along the mountainside. While we could not at this time  view the scenery around us as we were nearing the Sea of
							Galilee, we were conscious that we were rapidly descending from the heights to some
							valley blow. On and on we went along our mountain-trail until about nine o'clock at
							night, when we arrived at Tiberias. We spent the night in a Jewish house in this
							ancient city, which was the favorite abode of Herod. There is a tradition that our
							Lord did not perform any of his miracles here, and never entered the city. This,
							however, we have only as tradition; but the city of Tiberias existed in the days of
							our Savior, and although none of the ancient houses remain, yet the city retains the
							same name as when it was spared the fatal doom of the other cities along the shore of
							the Sea of Galilee, upon which Jesus pronounced his woes because they would not heed
							his admonitions nor the signs and wonders wrought in their midst.

						Very early the next morning arrangements were made to cross the Sea of Galilee to
							Bethsaida. For that purpose we procured a small sailboat, which, when there was no
							wind or the wind was unfavorable, was propelled by oars. It was a beautiful morning,
							and the sea was calm. As we looked on every side, to our remembrance were brought the
							things which transpired when our Savior was there. To our right across the sea could
							be seen the place where the five thousand were fed, and where the swine rushed down
							the steep place into the sea and were drowned. Along here could be seen the country of
							the Gadarines.

						The real site of the city of Bethsaida is somewhat a matter of conjecture, but ruins
							of that name not far from Capernaum are those generally accepted as being the site of
							the real city, near where Christ walked on the water. We are told that it was a city
							of Galilee near Capernaum. John 12: 21 and Mat, 11: 21. At what is considered at the
								
							
								RUINS OF CAPERNAUM-- SHORE OF GALILEE.
							
							 present time the site of Bethsaida there are only
							modern buildings and an old mill with some ruins near by. A short distance to the
							right is a spot marked as that of Capernaum; while to the left is Chorazin, of which
							there is scarcely anything to mark the spot.

						The ruins of none of these three cities are sufficient to make the spots inspiring,
							so as to bring vividly to the mind the former transactions, and the wonderful scenes
							and manifestations of the power of God of centuries ago. But the same old hills
							surround this Sea of Galilee, and there is no question concerning their being the
							identical hills upon which occurred the things recorded in the New Testament. The
							river Jordan, entering at the one end and passing out at the other end; the narrow
							valley along the water's edge in some places, while in other places are the
							perpendicular banks where the mountainside extends to the very brink of the water; and
							the sky above,-- all have a similar presentation of that of almost two thousand years
							ago, and to look upon them brings fresh to memory the things of the past.

						This sea in New Testament times was not only known as the Sea of Galilee, but as the
							Lake of Gennesaret (Luke 5:1 and Mark 6:53) and "the sea" (Mat. 4: 15), the Sea of
							Tiberias. John 6:1. In Old Testament times it was known as Chinnereth. Num. 34: 11;
							Deut. 3: 17; Josh 11: 2; 12: 3. The Sea of Galilee is somewhat the shape of a pear,
							the broad end being toward the north. It is about thirteen miles in length and from
							four to-seven miles in width, and is almost seven hundred feet below the
							Mediterranean. The depth of the sea is one hundred and sixty feet. The water is
							slightly salty, but not so much so but that it can be used for drinking purposes. Fish
							abound in the waters, but at the present time no one is allowed to fish without 
							
								SITE OF BETHSAIDA.
							
							 special written permission granted by the authorities;
							otherwise there is a heavy penalty. Upon this sea at the time of our Savior were many
							ships of commerce, and the cities upon the shores were flourishing cities of trade and
							commerce; but now only one or two small fishing-boats or sail-vessels are to be seen.
							Tiberias is the only place of any note on the shores of the sea, and it is not
							considered a flourishing town.

						While the Sea of Galilee is quite beautiful, yet it is not more so than many of our
							lakes in America. Were it not for the historical facts connected with it, there would
							be nothing to attract people to its shores; but because of its past history, as we
							glide over its waters and view the surrounding scenes, memories of the past are
							recalled. The mighty stirring times of centuries ago, the miracles wrought upon the
							face of the waters, the stilling of the storm, the walking upon the water, the healing
							of the sick in the cities and country around about, the casting out of demons, and all
							those things, bring over one a sense of awe and sublimity and holy reverence and
							feelings of inspiration.

						On account of the level of the sea being so far below that of the Mediterranean and
							the mountains and hills around about on every side, it is now as it was in the days of
							our Savior that storms suddenly sweep down upon the face of the water without warning;
							and ofttimes travelers and tourists who are leisurely sailing over its waters,
							enjoying a pleasant ride over the calm face of the sea, are suddenly surprised by a
							storm, and by reality are made to better understand something of the experiences of
							ancient days, as that of the apostles' when they had toiled all night against the
							waves of the sea, and caught nothing; or the time when "the wind was contrary"; or
							when Jesus was lying asleep in the ship, and the tempest became so great 
							
								FISHING ON THE SEA OF GALILEE.
							
							 that they feared their ship would be lost. These and
							many other scenes are brought vividly to memory.

						As we crossed over to Bethsaida the sea was calm, the water clear, and the sun
							shining. We could realize the favor of the Lord upon us in being privileged to thus
							cross to the other side, and by the way meditate upon the goodness of God, and his
							mighty works through his Son Jesus Christ in those places.

						Arriving at Bethsaida, we remained a short time; and leaving the boat with the
							boatmen, we started along the shore toward Capernaum. After going about half way, we
							found the distance was greater than we had thought. Therefore we stopped along the
							wayside, and had a precious little prayer-meeting. While we were going along the way,
							the boatmen became rather anxious to return, fearing that we should make them late.
							They came crying out to us, "The Bedouins will get you! the Bedouins will get you!"
							Though we knew that the Bedouins were reputed as being a vicious people, robbers, and
							thieves, yet we told the boatmen that we were not afraid of the Bedouins. As we
							proceeded still farther, we met a number of Bedouins. Some were carrying guns, and
							some had long heavy sticks for staffs; but they gave us no trouble. We soon found that
							the boatmen were not as anxious for our welfare as for something else; and when we
							came to where they were, they began to beg for "backshish" (money), to which some of
							the company answered, "Muskeen" (we are poor). But all the way back to the boat, a
							mile and a half or over, they were constantly pestering us for "backshish." But from
							past experience in other countries, we concluded it was best to refrain from giving
							them anything for the present.

						When we arrived at the place where the boat was, they, 
							
								BEDOUIN ENCAMPMENT IN THE VALLEY OF ACHOR.
							
							 rather than take it a little farther along the shore,
							preferred to carry us to the boat, a distance of probably thirty feet, having to wade
							in the water where it was about three feet deep. They had doubtless planned this as a
							sure method of procuring "backshish" in case they failed to procure it along the way.
							However, all of us were carried to the boat but two of the brethren. These they
							utterly refused to carry until the desired "backshish" was given. Leaving the brethren
							upon the shore, they came and began to push the boat out into the deep water. Grasping
							an oar as they were about to clamber into the boat themselves, we prevented their
							doing so, and demanded of them to return the boat to where it was, and to carry the
							other brethren to the boat. Finding that it would be impossible for them to take the
							boat away on account of those who were already in it, they went back and brought one
							of the brethren, and then stood and begged a long time before they would bring the
							remaining one.

						Through our guide we told them that they must positively bring him, and what they
							would get no "backshish" as long as he was on the shore. After a time they carried the
							brother to the boat, but were not in the best of humor; and soon, while the others
							were rowing, one of the boatmen took a cigarette from his pocket and began smoking,
							purposely to make it unpleasant for this brother and the sisters. We had to ask them
							to refrain from smoking in such away as to discommode the sisters.

						Seeing that they were determined to make it unpleasant for some members of the
							company, I asked the most persistent one of the boatmen to give me a piece of tissue
							paper, from which he made his cigarette. Not knowing for what purpose I desired it, he
							offered me some tobacco also. Although he could not understand English and I could not
								 understand Arabic, he was soon made to understand
							that I did not care for his tobacco. Taking the tissue paper, without his notice I
							took a comb from my pocket and slipped the paper over it. Placing it to my mouth, by a
							certain sound of the voice I imitated a cornet, and in this way played him a few
							songs. While the others of the company sang some sacred songs, I joined with them, to
							the amusement of the boatmen; then showed them how it was done, and had them to try
							the same.

						By this time they had forgotten all their ill feelings and disappointment concerning
							"backshish." After showing them a few other things, I also showed them my fountain
							pen, which was somewhat of a curiosity. After writing upon some shells my name,
							address, and a quotation of Scripture, I presented a shell to the persistent boatman.
							He then took the pen, and in the Arabic language wrote his name and address. By this
							time they were well pleased and sociable again. Had we yielded to their requests for
							"backshish" under the pressure of the circumstances at the edge of the lake, when
							reaching the middle of the lake they would have probably stopped and demanded more
							"backshish" and threatened not to land until their request was granted. But as it was,
							everything continued pleasantly.

						Upon our return, when about half way to Tiberias, we were suddenly made aware of the
							presence of a storm. In but a few minutes the whitecaps were showing themselves over
							the water, and the waves began to toss our boat until the boatmen were exerting all
							their powers to push forward; but the wind was contrary, and for an hour or so we made
							little headway. The storm was not a severe one, but it was sufficient to make us have
							a vivid realization of former scenes on the sea. When we landed about two  o'clock in the afternoon, we went to our place of
							lodging, at the home of a Hebrew family, and there was awaiting us a dinner including
							fish from the Sea of Galilee.

						While we were on the waters, there was one scene above all others that appeared to
							show the beauties of nature, and really appeared to present to our view the beauties
							of heaven with its glorious and radiant light. Before us was Mount Hermon, which is
							said to be the Mount of Transfiguration. Over the top of the mountain rested a cloud,
							through which the sun was shining, throwing a halo of light over the top of the
							mountain; and as we thought upon the description given of the scene of the
							transfiguration, we could scarcely refrain from uttering the words that Peter did--
							"Lord, it is good for us to be here." Peter was so astonished and overwhelmed by what
							he had seen that he did not know what else to say. This so vividly portrayed to our
							minds the actual scene of apostolic days that we could not have asked for a more
							beautiful view representing the place of the scene of the transfiguration.
					

					

					

						GALILEE.

						MANY things can be said regarding the Sea of Galilee and the
							surrounding sites, which recall the historic events of centuries ago when the Man of
							Galilee walked upon the waters and traversed the hills around about while his
							followers learned lessons of faith by word and example. The following description by
							Sister Nichols gives a beautiful portrayal of the scene and narration of our visit
							while there.

						A beautiful spring day in Galilee's land is drawing to its close. The sun has just
							sunk beneath the western sky, leaving the eastern sky and landscape richly tinted with
							the glowing reflection of his departing rays. 'Tis 
							
								SAFED-- "A CITY ON A HILL".
							
							 the most perfect time of the year: nature seems at her
							best, spring having spread the ground with her fresh green carpet thickly dotted with
							brilliantly dyed poppies; and now it is just that hour of the day, between the dark
							and daylight, when our thoughts love to steal away from the cares of life to be with
							God, and the sacred memories of God and life cluster about our hearts, winning and
							drawing us close to his great loving heart. The rugged hills and low-lying plains seem
							taking their rest after the burden and heat of the day, and all nature is folded in
							the calm of the Eternal Peace.

						In the midst of such surroundings, a small company of God's saints wend their way by
							carriage, up the long, rocky hill, four hours' journey eastward from Nazareth. Their
							hearts and thoughts are blended with the inspiring scene, and the burden of their
							conversation is of Him who once walked over these hills, and in some of these lonely
							nooks between the hills stole away from the villages with their multitudes, and poured
							out his heart to his Father and called upon God to fit and prepare him for the great
							life-work before him.

						Cana has been passed, where our Savior performed his first miracle at the marriage
							feast as recorded by John in his second chapter. Just at sunset 'twas a pretty sight
							that lay before us as we overlooked the valley where Cana is located among the hills.
							Descending the steep rocky hill to the west of Cana, we arrived at the outskirts of
							the village, where is located a wayside well, surrounded by Galilee's native women and
							girls, who after the Eastern custom were bearing water-pots on their heads and leading
							their goats to water.

						This is the well, they tell us, whence the water was drawn which was afterward
							converted into wine. Then 
							
								ORIENTAL IRRIGATION WHEEL.
							
							 we were guided to the spot where the wedding-feast took
							place.

						Leaving this place of sacred association, we ascended into a broad and fertile,
							though somewhat stony plain where dwells the tribe of Naphthali.

						Farther on to our right we passed the large and flourishing village of Lubiyeh and
							arrived at the opening scene of our narrative. Now we came to a spot we have often
							desired to visit-the Mount of Beatitudes, or Horns of Hattin, at whose base the most
							bloody and decisive battle of the Crusades was fought, when the Christians were
							utterly routed by the Moslems.

						It is a strange coincidence which strikes us with horror, that this terrible battle,
							waged nominally in defense of the faith of the Prince of Peace, was fought almost: on
							the very spot where he called his disciples unto him and delivered to the multitude
							the Sermon on the Mount. Mat. 5, 6 and 7. One of the opening sentences of that sermon
							was, "Blessed are the peacemakers; for they shall be called the children of God." This
							seems holy ground and we fain would linger here, but must hasten on.

						The light of departing day is fast fading into the dusk of the evening and night
							folds her warm blanket about us as the beautiful stars of God light up the heavens,
							and we sing the sweet songs of Zion which unfold the message our hearts would tell.
							Here is the first verse and the chorus of one:

						"Joys are flowing like a river, Since the Comforter has come;
							He abides with us forever, Makes the trusting heart his home.

						Chorus:

						"Blessed quietness, holy quietness, What assurance in my
							soul! On the stormy sea, Jesus speaks to me, And the billows cease to
							roll."


						

						
							A BAND OF BEDOUINS-- PALESTINE.
						

						

						Another is:
						"Silently the shades of evening Gather round my lonely door;
							Silently they bring before me Faces I shall see no more.

						Chorus:

						"Come, ye silent shades of evening, Holy mer 'ries cluster round
							me, Pointed up to that fair haven We still hope to gain at last."

						Then other snatches of song, a verse or two of "Nearer My God to Thee," "Lord Jesus,
							My Sweet Rose of Sharon," "Calvary," and "Getbsemane." As we pass on nearer to our
							destination. our hearts become so charged with sacred thoughts that for long intervals
							no sound is heard but that of the horses and the carriage wheels and an occasional
							stroke of the driver's whip.

						How the presence of the Holy Spirit floods our souls! We are nearing Galilee with all
							that Galilee means to a loving follower of the meek and lowly Jesus. As we ascend the
							last steep of the long winding road up the hill, whose summit overlooks the sea, the
							moon, rising out of the eastern sky as if to bless and grace the sublime occasion,
							illumines and makes thrice beautiful the scene about us. At last the summit is
							reached, and there, far beneath our present level, illumined by the soft rays of the
							moon, lies the beautiful, placid Sea of Galilee, and amidst glimpses of scenery almost
							unearthly in their beauty, stillness and lonely solitude, as the sea unfolds to our
							view we slowly descend, by a long winding road, the hill, at the foot of which we
							reach the walls and gateway of Tiberias. It is a late hour, as we have been over an
							hour descending the long hill; so partaking of our frugal meal, we commit ourselves to
							the care of Him who "giveth his beloved sleep," and lie down for the night by the sea.
							Morning  has come, and as the sun bursts forth in the
							east, with eager hearts we make hurried preparation for the day; for, since we are to
							visit the scenes on the shores around the sea by boat, it is wisdom to start in the
							early morning, as our boatmen tell us treacherous storms are apt to burst upon us
							suddenly in the afternoon, rendering navigation in fishing-boats unsafe. Residents of
							Calcutta can well understand this freak of nature.

						We are soon embarked, oars manned and sails hoisted and we shoot off into the clear
							blue waters of the sea. A peculiar sensation of awe yet of safety accompanies one
							riding where the Master so perfectly controlled the elements. Two scenes stand out
							before me more than any others as we glide into the waters opposite Genesaret-- the
							scenes of two of the most wonderful events while Jesus was with his disciples: the
							first taking place the night following the marvelous feeding of the five thousand.
							"And straightaway Jesus constrained his disciples to get into a ship, and to go before
							him unto the other side, while he sent the multitude away. And when he had sent the
							multitude away, he went up into a mountain apart to pray: and when the evening was
							come, he was there alone. But the ship was now in the midst of the sea, tossed with
							waves: for the wind was contrary. And in the fourth watch of the night Jesus went unto
							them, walking on the sea. And when the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were
							troubled, saying, It is a spirit; and they cried out for fear. But straightway Jesus
							spoke unto them, saying, Be of good cheer; it is I; be not afraid.

						"And Peter answered him and said, Lord, if it be thou, Lid me come unto thee on the
							water. And he said, Come. And when Peter was come down out of the ship, he walked on
							the water to go to Jesus."

						

						At the simple command "come" from the lips of his Lord, Peter without hesitation
							fearlessly stepped out of the ship onto the water and "walked on the
								water to go to Jesus." How it must have delighted the heart of the Lord to see
							Peter's trust and confidence! Dear saints of God, hear is a lesson for us. Our Lord
							wants us to have this trust in him and in his Word. In the night of discouragements,
							in the storm of afflictions and disease, open your spiritual eyes, Jesus is there
							before you, on the troubled sea, saying, "Come," and if you look with faith; if you
								pierce through the storm-cloud straight into the face of your
							Lord, losing sight of the boisterous waves about you, wholly swallowed up in the fact
							that Jesus is right there ready and anxious to
							deliver you, you will so completely ignore the devil and so fully realize God's
							presence that in spite of appearance and surroundings, you will get deliverance and
							victory in Jesus, only "be of good cheer; it is I; be not afraid." "Come." We are now
							in almost the same spot where their boat was during the storm. "When they were come
							into the ship, the wind ceased. Then they that were in the ship came and worshiped
							him, saying, Of a truth thou are the Son of God. And when they were gone over, they
							came into the land of Gennesaret." The second scene which stands out prominently this
							morning is beyond Galilee to the north, and separated from the sea by low ranges of
							hills. As our boat swings into position around that curve and out toward the middle of
							the sea, where Mount Hermon comes into full view, we are held as if spellbound as the
							unexpected scene breaks upon our view, and then exclamations of wonder and admiration
							escape our lips, and immediately there is a call for the telescope, that the beautiful
							scene may be drawn closer to us. This mount was the scene of Christ's 
							
								FISHERMEN MENDING THEIR NETS.
							
							 transfiguration. "He took with him Peter and John and
							James, and went t lip into the mountain to pray. And as he was praying the fashion of
							his countenance was altered and his raiment became white and dazzling," "and his face
							did shine as the sun, and his garments became white as the light." Mat. 17: 2. "And
							behold there talked with him two men which were Moses and Elias; who appeared in
							glory, and spoke of his decease which he was about to accomplish at Jerusalem." Luke
							9: 28-31. "And Peter answered and said unto Jesus, Lord, it is good for us to be here:
							if thou wilt I will make here three tabernacles; one for thee, and one for Moses, and
							one for Elias. While he was yet speaking, behold a bright cloud overshadowed them, and
							behold a voice out of the cloud, saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well
							pleased; hear ye him. And when the disciples heard it, they fell on their face, and
							were sore afraid. And Jesus came and touched them, and said, Arise and be not afraid.
							And lifting up their eyes, they saw no one, save Jesus only." Mat. 17: 4-8. Well can
							we imagine the scene this morning, for indeed it looks as if the transfiguration were
							being re-enacted, the lofty snow-capped peaks being overshadowed with clouds, and the
							shafts of sunlight piercing through the mists and clouds give the appearance of a halo
							of heavenly glory over the whole mountain. It is one of those rare sights of a
							life-time never to be forgotten. The day seems especially appointed for our
							satisfaction, and deep gratitude fills my heart for this rare privilege, but soon we
							pass on so far that the hills between the sea and Hermon conceal it from view and our
							attention is directed to more immediate interests.

						To our right and opposite Gennesaret we notice a narrow valley lying in an east and
							west direction, which  forms the meeting of a steep
							bluff and a hill. This is the country of the Gadarenes: down this steep declivity the
							herd of swine violently ran, into which Jesus allowed the legion of devils to pass.
							Mark 5:1-15. There are many pretty valleys and high rocky headlands all along the
							shores, and as we draw nearer to the land of Bethsaida, we realize how vain would be
							the attempt of a pen to portray the rare beauty of this country in the spring-time.
							Though these villages along the northern shores were once large and flourishing, now
							there are very few scattering tribes there, so that the country has been left to the
							beautifying hand of nature, which, after all, is equaled by none of man's attempts,
							especially at this time of year, after the rains and in such a favored climate.

						The plains are luxuriant in thick herbage and brilliantly adorned with myriads of
							wild flowers of the richest hue, nature's own jewels. The ruined remains of the
							esplanade or sea-wall of ancient Bethsaida, the "Home of Fish," can be seen by the
							side of the sea. This then was the home of the Galilean fishermen Peter and Andrew,
							James, John, and Philip. Bethsaida was among those cities upbraided by our Lord
							because they repented not. "Woe unto thee, Bethsaida! for if the mighty works which
							were done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon they would have repented long ago in
							sackcloth and ashes." The woe pronounced upon this city was certainly fulfilled, for
							there is scarcely a house standing to mark the spot.

						From the boat at this place Jesus taught the multitudes on the land, in parables,
							among which was the memoriable Parable of the Sower.

						An intense desire seizes us to walk to Capernaum; to tread the same ground where
							Jesus must often have walked to and from Capernaum to Magdala.

						

						
							BEDOUIN WARRIORS.
						

						

						Crossing by stepping-stones the many delightful brooks and springy places of
							Bethsaida we proceeded on our way through the fields on which Jesus and his audience
							probably looked while he preached to them the Parable of the Sower, for we notice
							along the shore and through the fields all the natural features spoken of in the
							parable: the trodden foot-path, the projecting surfaces of rock, clumps of thistles
							and thorns, and the fertile fruit-bearing soil: also as we pass on plucking a few
							heads of grain for souvenirs, we note the tares among the wheat. How close these
							associations bring us to our Savior. He seen very near indeed as we walk where he
							walked, talked, and prayed, and we kneel down by the foot-path and pour out our hearts
							in humble supplication to him that we may walk even as he walked. Such an intense
							craving seizes me for a more perfect consecration, a more real crucifying of self--
							the Ego-- and I feel that I am sinking down into the will and love of God more than
							ever before. These are precious moments, but seeing the threatening sky, and our
							guides entreating us to return to the boat, we turn our footsteps homeward, having
							caught only a glimpse of Capernaum.

						We tread our way back along the sinuous, hard-beaten path through brambles and over
							brooks again. Days of childhood come to me with memories of green woods and rippling
							brooks. Who has not had the pleasure of being out alone with God and nature and
							listening to nature's song in bird and brook? Tennyson's beautiful Song of the Brook
							comes vividly to mind. It seems to chatter on in its delight, telling of steadfastness
							and faithfulness and sounds so soothing and friendly, but the storm-cast sky demands
							haste. Taking boat again we begin the journey, skirting along the northwestern and
							western shores past 
							
								VILLAGE OF EMMAUS.
							
							 Magdala, forever memoriable for its associations with
							Mary Magdalene, for this was her home. We must stop here if only for a few minutes to
							gather a few of the thousands of beautiful white spiral shells and sea-stones. They
							may be gathered up by double handfuls here, almost as shells. Soon after embarking
							again, clouds thickly overspread the sky and the wind rises. Though the rain and storm
							seem heavy all about us, we are almost entirely exempt, getting only a sprinkle of
							rain; but the boat rolls enough to be interesting. The oarsmen tug painfully at the
							oars as the wind is contrary, rendering the sails useless most of the way, and
							therefore we arrive at Tiberias for a late dinner. We are rather weary to start back
							to Nazareth, but it has been a rare, precious day on Galilee, for beautiful Mount
							Hermon has been seen at its best in the morning, and I am thankful, for as we returned
							from Bethsaida the mount was enveloped in thick fog and misty cloud. The rain has been
							withheld, and we have seen Jesus' sea in sunshine and shadow, fair weather and
							storm.
					

					

					

						FROM NAZARETH TO JERUSALEM.

						LEAVING Tiberias in the afternoon, we began to ascend the
							mountainside on our way back to Nazareth, which place we reached late at night.
							Arising quite early the next morning, arrangements were hastily made for our trip to
							Jerusalem. As there is no carriage road from Nazareth to Jerusalem, because of the
							rough passageway across the mountains, we were compelled to make other arrangements
							for the journey. Our guide went out and soon returned, stating that he had engaged
							ponies for our entire company. Some of us went and examined the ponies, and found them
							to be all satisfactory.

						

						
							THE VIRTIN'S FOUNTAIN-- NAZARETH.
						

						

						When we were almost ready to start, the guide returned again, and said that he could
							not get the horses, as he had had some trouble with the owner, but was about to make a
							bargain with some one else. We had noticed along the way that he had trouble with many
							persons with whom he dealt. Sometimes he would come and say, "I had a fight mit 'em";
							and in telling his experiences, he would tell how he had to slap some, or strike them,
							or grasp them roughly with his hands. We would tell him that it was wrong to act in
							that way, or to fight them. "But," said he, "I shust fight dem mit my hands, and not
							mit my heart; my heart is all right."

						We knew that his heart was not right, and soon had reasons by actual experience to
							learn that it was far from being right. He went away again, and soon returned with two
							large mules and several burros, or donkeys, which were called asses in the days of our
							Savior. He also had two muleteers, or persons to drive and take care of them. These
							were native servants. He seemed to be having considerable trouble in making
							arrangements, even after we had mounted our animals ready to start. However, we were
							soon on our way; Brother and Sister Bailey having the larger mules, and the others of
							the company the donkeys. My donkey was just forty-one inches in height. A Spaniard and
							some Roman Catholics joined in with our caravan.

						The people of that country speak the Arabic language. The Catholics in our caravan
							could understand some Arabic, but could not speak English. The Spaniard could not
							speak English; but Sister Bailey could understand a few words of Spanish, and he could
							understand a few words of Arabic, which afterwards proved to be a great help to us. No
							sooner had we reached the outskirts of the city, 
							
								NATIVE VILLAGE-- PALESTINE.
							
							 than we were made aware that our guide was left
							behind.

						After we had waited for some time, the Spaniard came along, moving his hands from
							side to side, indicating to us that our guide was in a state of intoxication; and soon
							he came riding along scarcely able to sit up, and was almost dead drunk. He had our
							passports in his possession, and we secured them at once. There we were just starting
							on a three days' journey through a country that required a guide to show the way, and
							through one of the most dangerous parts of Palestine on account of the wickedness of
							the people and their enmity against Christians. In the Oriental countries every white
							person is considered a Christian, and generally those of other countries who wear
							European clothes.

						Our first thought concerning the guide was to leave him and undertake the journey
							alone; but as it was difficult to secure a guide at that place, and very dangerous to
							go without one, for a time we were at a loss to know what to do. We asked him why he
							got drunk at such a time. He said they drugged him at the hotel; but as we had noticed
							his strange actions for some time before as if he had occasionally taken a glass, we
							told him that he had undoubtedly drugged himself. To the people who came around him he
							said that he was a Christian, and at the same time was too drunk to sit up by himself.
							The Spaniard told him that he was of the devil.

						Hoping that the guide might within a few hours recover from his drunkenness, we were
							arranging to tie him on his animal and take him along with us; but the muleteers
							seriously objected, and gave us to understand by their motions and other means of
							objection that in passing over the mountain near by there was danger of the animal
							stumbling over the stones, causing him to fall and kill 
							
								VILLAGE OVEN.
							
							 himself, and they would be held responsible, and that
							after we had passed the mountain and reached level country they would not object to
							having him tied. Hastily placing him in his saddle, with all the force he had he
							seemed to insist on pushing himself backward so as to lie upon his back upon the
							animal, and it seemed difficult to hold him upright in the saddle. However, as his
							animal was very small, for about an hour I held him up by main force while we traveled
							along the way. Some of the company remarked that it very much resembled the appearance
							of the good Samaritan of centuries ago. The warm rays of the sun brought the
							perspiration very freely while thus traveling over the rough mountain. We finally
							reached the other side, and as soon as we came to smooth roads we let him have his
							way, so far as lying down was concerned. His head reached back to the tail of the
							animal. We then took a rope and tied him securely and made him as comfortable as
							possible, and soon were ready to continue the journey. While most of the others were
							quite a distance ahead of us, we soon made up for lost time.

						We were now passing through a beautiful level country, though comparatively little
							farming is done there. Thus we traveled along with but little variation in the
							scenery. About half-past eleven our guide suddenly aroused from his drunken stupor,
							and was ready to have the ropes untied. He was very much ashamed of himself, and
							remained quite a distance behind for an hour or so. We, however, encouraged him, and
							soon he became bold enough to ride along in company with the others.

						Along the way we passed Mount Gilboa, which is the place where Saul and Jonathan were
							slain in battle, and from whence Saul went to consult the witch of Endor. 1 Sam. 28:4;
							31:6; 1 Chron. 10:1; 2 Sam. 1: 21. This 
							
								A VIEW OF JENIN.
							
							 mountain is east of the Plain of Jezreel. While passing
							through this large plain and by the noted mountains along the way, we were made to
							realize that we were now in full view of the place of noted occurrences and bloody
							scenes of ancient days.

						In the evening we arrived at the village of Jenin, a place of about thirteen hundred
							inhabitants, including a few Catholics and Moslem or Mohammedan schools and mosques.
							The people are mostly Mohammedans. This village lies at the entrance of the great
							Plain of Esdraelon. Upon one of the Turkish mosques is to be read the following sign:
							"There is one God, and Mohammed is his prophet."

						Here we were unable to secure accommodations at a hotel; but our guide had recovered
							sufficiently to find the owner of a compound, which place included two or three small
							stone houses. These were enclosed by a wall eight or ten feet high. In the enclosure
							were also trees and luxuriant vegetation. One of the houses was secured. The house was
							well built, but contained only one room, about twelve by fourteen feet. The proprietor
							of the compound prepared the room by making beds on the floor for the men, and
							arranged a bed on boxes in one corner of the room for the others.

						We had a talk with our guide and told him that we were very sorry to know that he
							would act as he did, and unless he promised to do better we would not take him with us
							any farther. He promised us faithfully that he would drink no more liquor, but would
							conduct himself properly henceforth. We insisted that he stay with us continually, eat
							with us, and sleep in the same room, and when necessary to go into the village to make
							purchases that some of us go with him, that there be no chance for him to yield to 
							
								NABLOUS AND MOUNT EBAL.
							
							 the temptation of drunkenness. This he promised to do.
							That night three of us dreamed of murder. The next morning as the dreams were told,
							they were so striking that we wondered what the meaning could be. A few days later we
							were made to better understand concerning our dreams, as will be related in another
							chapter.

						The next day we had a very pleasant journey over level country, with nothing unusual
							or of special importance until we came to the city of Nabulus. This is the site of the
							ancient city of Shechem, which is near the place that in the New Testament is called
							Sychar. It is a walled city of several thousand people, nearly all Mohammedans, there
							being only about five hundred Greeks, one hundred and fifty Samaritans, and one
							hundred Jews. The Mohammedans of this place are aggressive, fanatical, hating
							Christians and Jews, and make but little effort to conceal their dislike for both
							religions. We read in the Old Testament of the wickedness of the people of the city of
							Shechem, and it seems that it has always been noted since that time as a place of rank
							wickedness, and its people filled with enmity, hatred, and ready for almost any
							atrocious crime. As we entered the city, we were informed of the disposition of the
							people and had scarcely passed through the gates of the city until we were made to
							realize the truth of the statement. Passing by a school or mosque, where a number of
							young men who were students were just coming out with their red Turkish turban caps
							upon their heads, we soon learned that they were instilled with the same feelings of
							enmity and hatred. They began hissing and making undue remarks, signs, and outward
							manifestations, showing the disposition of their hearts toward us.

						We secured quite a comfortable place at a monastery. 
							As it was getting late in the evening and we desired to begin our journey early the
							next morning, we had to make preparations at once for a luncheon for the next day.

						While the others of the company remained at the monastery, in company with the guide
							I went to the city to make the necessary purchases. We 1bad just begun to make the
							purchases in the shops and markets along the narrow streets, when the native villagers
							gathered around. All seemed to have something to say regarding the purchases; one
							objecting to this, another to that. The guide, knowing their nature and disposition
							and understanding some of their remarks, became very uneasy. They began muttering in
							the Arabic language, to which occasionally he would make a reply. Then some began to
							reach through the crowd to grab at him, and one or two pushed themselves in to where I
							was standing; but as I paid no attention to them, their minds were principally
							attracted to the guide. As they crowded in, I gradually stepped back. Soon the talking
							became loud. The guide called to me, and said we must go. I asked him to finish making
							his purchases first.

						In a few minutes the crowd was increased to a large mob. Many of them with loud
							demonstrations indicated that there was immediate trouble on hand. We were now
							separated by probably fifty or a hundred persons. The guide became frightened, and
							made a hasty exit, and was soon not only out of their midst, but a safe distance from
							them; while I was at the other side in the very edge of the crowd. But while their
							attention was mostly attracted to him, I had silently and quietly stepped back, and
							the angry ones in the middle who had seen me with him at first could not now see me,
							and those who came later did not know that I had accompanied him. Knowing that I had
							to make the 
							
								GILGAL-- PLACE WHERE MANA CEASED.
							
							 best of the situation, I took my umbrella, which had a
							handle like a cane, and twirled it in my hands and looked up at the top of the
							buildings along the street, as if considerably interested, and began walking along the
							street whistling. As my umbrella came down with some force while twirling, those near
							me made way for me to pass through; and keeping to the opposite side of the street
							where the crowd was not so dense, I managed to pass by them without attracting any
							particular attention. I had asked the Lord for protection, and he had given me
							sufficient wisdom for the occasion to make good my escape.

						Upon going to where the guide had stopped, I said:

						"Why did you run? I did not hear anything said that would make any one run."

						"If you could have understood what they said," he replied, "you would have run
							too."

						"This is probably one of the times," said I, "when 'ignorance is bliss.'"

						However, we made good our escape, and in another part of the city procured the
							necessary provisions, and arrived safe at the monastery.

						The streets of the city are narrow, filthy, and winding, and are shut in from the
							sunlight by the overjutting roofs of the houses. Main street is lined with bazaars, or
							market-places.

						This city is near the edge of Samaria, and the Samaritans here have the Pentateuch,
							one of the rare old manuscripts of the books of Moses, in the shape of a scroll,
							written in Samaritan characters, and claimed to be thirty-two hundred years old, and
							to be the work of the great-grandson of Aaron.

						The Samaritans abhor all images and all expressions whereby human attributes are
							ascribed to God. They 
							
								PLACE OF SACRIFICE ON MOUNT GERIZIM.
							
							. believe in getting a full experience in the
							resurrection and last judgment. They expect the Messiah to appear six thousand years
							after the creation of the world, and they do not consider that he will be greater than
							Moses. Three times a year, viz., at the festival of unleavened bread, the feast of
							weeks, and the feast of tabernacles, they make a pilgrimage to the sacred Mount
							Gerizim. They celebrate all the Mosaic festivals, but they offer sacrifices at the
							passover only. Bigamy is permitted if the first wife is childless; and when a married
							man dies, his nearest relation, but not his brother, is bound to marry the widow.

						It was near this city that Jesus at one time met the woman of Samaria at Jacob's
							well. John 4:4-30. It is said that after he left Judea and departed into Galilee "he
							must needs go through Samaria. Then cometh he to a city of Samaria, which is called
							Sychar, near to the parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph. Now Jacob's
							well was there. Jesus therefore, being wearied with his journey, sat thus on the well:
							and it was about the sixth hour. There cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water. Jesus
							saith unto her, Give me to drink." It was here Jesus told the woman of the water of
							life, and said, "Whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never
							thirst; but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing
							up into everlasting life." This well is about a mile and a half from the city.
					

					

						

						LEAVING THE CITY OF SHECHEM.

						THE next morning we arose very early, and started on our journey
							shortly after the break of day, as we had a long, tiresome journey. When we passed out
							of the city 
							
								JACOB'S WELL NEAR NABLOUS-- ANCIENT SHECHEM.
							
							 gates, for a short distance there was a carriage road.
							We were now at a place of a notable scene of the past. To our right towered Mount
							Gerizim, to our left Mount Ebal, with a beautiful narrow valley between. It is said
							that in Joshua's time there were gathered on this spot over three million Israelites
							to receive the law. Here began the warfare between the Jews and Samaritans. When the
							people were gathered together in this valley, Joshua and the high priests who read the
							law were on the mountainside above. We were told that a person upon one of these
							mountains could speak so as to be heard by all the people in the valley and across to
							the other mountain. The scene, to say the least, was a very impressive one. Passing
							the mountain, a little to the left was the site of Jacob's well.

						The morning was very pleasant, but in a few minutes the rain began to fall. Soon we
							turned from the carriage road to our right through a level country, which was traveled
							by animals and footmen. Rain continued to descend for a time, then slacken for a few
							minutes, only to begin again, and so continued until noon.

						After having gone about four miles, the muleteers wanted to return. It was then
							pouring down rain, and a number of us were wet. I had lent my rain-coat to Sister
							Bailey, Brother Bailey had the baby securely tucked away under his rain-coat, and
							Brother Khan was also quite well protected. Sister Nichols was without a rain-coat,
							but had a small umbrella. Soon the wind began to blow, turning her umbrella wrong side
							out, and wresting it from her hands. One of the mules stepped upon it, breaking it.
							Therefore she was fully exposed to the drenching showers.

						We had not gone far when one of the muleteers became sick, and the other one had to
							hold him on his animal. The weather was getting cooler, and the rain coming down 
							
								ST. PAUL'S WALL-- DAMASCUS.
							
							 faster. Our guide also was quite unwell. I had,
							therefore, to take the place of the mule-driver. Some of the animals were laden with
							baggage. Occasionally another caravan would fall in with us. Sometimes we would
							out-travel them, and again another one would outtravel us. On we went, with all the
							tracks and little holes along the way filled with water, tramping through mud and
							water, some of us completely drenched, and almost all chilled. We continued our
							journey until eleven o'clock, when the muleteers stopped, both of them crying and
							groaning, and declaring they would go no farther.

						We were in sight of a village up the mountainside, about a mile and a half distant.
							They insisted upon going to that place; but as there were no hotels and only little
							mud and stone huts without fireplaces and sufficient accommodations, we talked the
							matter over and concluded that it would mean the death of some of us to go to such a
							place and undertake to remain till the storm ceased. We also learned that about one
							hour's journey ahead of us was a small stone hut where travelers sometimes stopped to
							eat their luncheons.

						The guide wanted to turn aside to the village, and the muleteers declared they would
							go no farther. We had to use our own judgment in the matter, and risk the
							consequences. Starting our company ahead, by the help of the guide and one muleteer we
							put the sick man on his animal, and the other muleteer held him on. I used my little
							whip to make the animal go, and had to keep between them and the village until after
							they passed the road leading up to it. After getting them at a safe distance beyond
							the road, I went back after my animal, which was trudging slowly along. Also I found
							Brother Khan so chilled he could scarcely sit upon his animal. After stopping his
							animal  and getting him off on the ground, I started his
							animal at a good pace, and then told Brother Khan we must run to catch up with the
							others. I took him by the arm and managed to get the circulation started sufficiently
							to make him a little more comfortable by the time we reached the others in the
							caravan. Thus one after another had to be dismounted, and special care given to keep
							them from chilling to death. After an hour we reached the little stone hut, which was
							built in circular shape, with no opening except the door. We could reach the roof near
							the edges and in the center it was probably about nine feet to the top. It reminded us
							somewhat of a large cistern with no opening at the top. There was not even a place for
							the smoke to escape.

						One man lived there, a native of that country, who could not understand a word of
							English. Nevertheless, through our guide we told him to hastily prepare us a fire, and
							we would pay him for it. In a few minutes we had his house almost crowded full of
							people and baggage. In the middle of the room was a small stone pillar to hold up the
							center of the roof, and a few stones at its base answered as a fireplace. As soon as
							he began to build the fire, we gave our attention to the muleteer who was sick. He was
							groaning, and seemed to be at the point of death. The other muleteer had been weeping,
							fearing that his friend would die. From all appearance it seemed his end was near at
							hand. Sick, and chilled through, as he was, we laid him down upon the ground floor,
							and rubbed his hands and arms, and started the circulation more freely. Seeing his
							critical condition, we saw he must have help from God or he would soon be dead;
							therefore we offered up our petitions to the Lord, remembering that Jesus centuries
							ago used to pass through that part of the country and heal the sick; and  knowing that he is the same to-day, we called upon the
							Lord, and asked him to stretch forth his hand to heal. The man ceased groaning
							immediately, and we told him to say, "Hamdo Lilla" (praise the Lord). He began to
							repeat the words. And soon of his own accord, as he began to feel the healing power of
							God penetrating his being he continued saying, "Hamdo Lilla, Hamdo Lilla." He was now
							resting quite easy, and the man who lived at the place gave a change of clothing, and
							he was laid in one side of the room and wrapped in dry clothing. He was soon sound
							asleep and resting well.

						In less than two minutes after the fire was started the room was filled with smoke,
							and the only place for it to escape was through the door, which opened toward the
							west. A heavy western wind was blowing in at the opening, while at the same time there
							came a storm of rain, which ended with snow and hail. We were, however, praising God
							for his loving protection, for what he had done for the muleteer, and also for a place
							of escape from the storm.

						After eating our luncheon and getting our things ready to travel, it was decided to
							leave the sick man there until the other muleteer should return the next day. We then
							paid the man for his services and accommodation, gave him some money for keeping the
							muleteer until the next day, and left some food for them both, and we were soon ready
							to start on our journey again.

						The saddles and luggage were placed upon the animals, and soon everything was ready.
							We had not gone far, however, until we were at the very edge of a rough, rugged
							mountainside. Our journey thus far had been over level plains and through valleys, but
							now began the winding around the hills and mountains. Some of us dismounted 
							
								FIELD OF BOAZ, NEAR BETHLEHEM.
							
							 and climbed directly over the top, clambering from rock
							to rock, and down the other side to meet the remainder of the company as they traveled
							along the winding way.

						We had scarcely started when there came another shower of rain. We were now rising to
							a higher altitude, and the wind became more cold and piercing. Dashing showers of rain
							coming now and then kept us well drenched. As we were nearing the top of the highest
							mountains, the wind seemed to be blowing a regular gale, insomuch that at one time one
							of the largest mules was blown out of the track sideways. This may seem almost
							incredible; but had it been taken as far from the track on the other side, it would
							have gone tumbling down the mountainside.

						After traveling for two or three hours through rain and sunshine and the piercing,
							driving wind, we came to more level roads between the mountains. Now and then the
							hills and mountainsides were terraced, and beautiful olive-groves were to be seen
							along the way. This was one of the roughest roads we had ever traveled. Sometimes for
							miles we could see but little else than heaps of stone walls and the almost bare
							mountains and hills. Years, probably centuries, ago there had been an enormous amount
							of work done, probably by some ancient kings, in preparing that country for the
							olive-groves. In some places through which we passed, were narrow lanes with thick,
							rough stone walls on either side, and small fields in like manner walled from the
							stones which had been gathered from the ground, and yet the ground seemed to be almost
							covered with stones. The traveler is rather perplexed to know why there has been so
							much expense in preparing a land that appears to be almost useless. Furthermore, no
							cities, villages, or farmhouses are to be seen near these places. We can only imagine
							what it was at one time when the country was in a more prosperous condition.

						

						
							GRAND COLONADE OF SAMARIA.
						

						

						On this journey we passed by the hill on which stood ancient Shiloh, and also passed
							the place where Hannah brought little Samuel to live after he was consecrated to the
							Lord. 1 Sam. 1: 24, 28. Notwithstanding the appearance of the country during our day's
							journey, and the experience through which we had to pass, the remembrances of the
							ancient history of some of these places brought to our minds the transactions of past
							ages, and we felt greatly repaid for enduring the hardships of the trip.

						Looking out over the hills and valleys while nearing the places where Samuel spent
							his boyhood days, we remembered how God spoke to him in the night, saying, "Samuel,
							Samuel." At first he did not understand that it was the voice of the Lord, but went to
							Eli and asked for what purpose he had called him. It was there that Eli died of sorrow
							when the enemy prevailed against the army of Israel, and his sons were slain in
							battle, and the ark of God was taken by the Philistines. 1 Sam. 4: 10-18. It was at
							that place that Joshua divided the land to the tribes of Israel.

						After continuing our journey for some time, we came to places where our animals had
							to pick their way between the rough rocks in the pathway and over small ledges. Now
							and then some of us who were walking held the riders on the animals as they stepped
							down the rocky precipices.

						On and on the march was continued until the sun was sinking over the hills of Judea,
							when suddenly we caught sight of a city in the distance, but soon the mountain peaks
							hid it from our view. What city could it be? The journey was not continued long until
							again we got a glimpse of the city, which must have been almost ten miles distant.
							Behold, it was the holy city Jerusalem. Our hearts rejoiced as we gazed upon this city
							on Mount Zion, surrounded by 
							
								BETHEL-- PLACE OF JACOB'S DREAM.
							
							 hills and mountains. Again we soon lost sight of it,
							but we were hurrying onward and the day was fading away. The rain had ceased, and our
							clothes, still damp from the rain, were slowly becoming dry. Soon the sun had passed
							down over the western horizon, and night was closing in upon us.

						About dark we arrived at a small village, where there was an inn and stopping-place
							for travelers, a place for the animals to be fed and travelers to receive shelter.
							They did not have suitable accommodations for us to remain during the night. Our
							animals were tired, and as we now had reached the carriage road to Jerusalem, it did
							not take long to decide to dismiss our muleteers and animals and hire a carriage for
							Jerusalem.

						While the change was being made, we went into the inn. A kettle with some coals in it
							was brought for our comfort; and while warming ourselves as best we could from the few
							coals, we also ate our luncheon. In about half an hour announcement was made that the
							carriage was ready. Our company filled the seats of the carriage, and some of us lent
							our rain-coats to the guide, who rode with the driver. Blankets were furnished to make
							us comfortable, and the carriage was closed. Notwithstanding that the night was cool,
							we were able to continue the remainder of the journey quite comfortbly; but we were
							not able to view the country as we went along, because of the darkness of the night.
							About ten o'clock at night we passed through one gate of the city and out through
							another gate and on until we came to the Jerusalem Hotel, where we obtained
							comfortable rooms, baths, and such other accommodations as were necessary.
					

					

					
						JACOB'S WELL.
					

					

					

						JERUSALEM.

						JERUSALEM, the most renowned city of the world in ages past.
							Within its walls rested the glory and power of the Lord, and kings and princes admired
							its beauty and strength, and they were stricken with awe and filled with fear because
							of the manifestation of power in its construction and defense. While King David was
							beholding the beautiful site for a city his spiritual vision was opened to the
							beauties of the church, and in admiration and wonder he exclaimed with prophetic
							words: "Beautiful for situation, the joy of the whole earth, is Mount Zion, on the
							sides of the north, the city of the great King. God is known in her palaces for a
							refuge. For, lo, the kings were assembled, they passed by together. They saw it, and
							so they marveled; they were troubled, and hasted away. Fear took hold upon them
							there." Psa. 48: 2-6.

						The meaning of the word "Jerusalem" from the Hebrew is "inheritance of peace, or
							possession"; but it has not always been a place of peace and happiness. Within its
							walls have been the dark scenes of bloody warfare, famine, distress, oppression,
							misery, and woe. While at times it has been the wonder of the earth because of its
							beauty and the manifestation of the presence and power of God, at other times it has
							been the place of the most heart-rending scenes upon the face of the earth. The Jewish
							writers believe that this city in the days of Melchizedek (Gen. 14: 18) was called
							Salem. It is especially held as a sacred city by the Jews and Mohammedans. It is
							believed by the Mohammedans that the general judgment will take place in the Valley of
							Jehoshaphat, under the direction of Mohammed and Jesus.

						The range of mountains upon which Jerusalem is 
							
								PANORAMA OF JERUSALEM.
							
							 situated forms a watershed between the Mediterranean
							and the Dead Sea. It is about eighteen miles from the Dead Sea and thirty-two miles
							from the Mediterranean Sea. Upon this elevated point of land and upon four or five
							hills or mountains closely crowded together is builded this noted city, surrounded on
							three sides by deep ravines. On the east is the Valley of Kedron, which is also called
							Jehoshaphat, and on the west and south is the Valley of Hinnom. These deep ravines
							come together about half a mile south of the city wall, and extend in an easterly
							direction toward the Dead Sea. There is another valley, called the Tyropeon, or
							"valley of the cheesemongers," which extends from one side, and is connected with the
							valley of the Kedron a little farther from the city, at the Pool of Siloam.

						Within the city walls on the southwest is Mount Moriah, the site of the temple, now
							covered by the Haram inclosure or square which has the Mosque of Omar. Southwest of
							this is Mount Zion, a portion of which is without the city wall. Directly south of
							Moriah is the Hill of Ophel, also without the city wall. North of Mount Moriah is
							Bezetha, or "new city," and west of Bezetha, in the northwest part of the city, is
							Akra. The summit of Akra, however, is sometimes considered to be a part of Mount Zion.
							South of Mount Zion is the Valley of Hinnom, which extends around on the west side of
							the city. The Valley of Hinnom and that of the Kedron unite south of the city. The
							Tyropon Valley lies between Ophel and Mount Zion. North of the city is the Scopus,
							east of it the Mount of Olives, and on the south the Hill of Evil Counsel.

						The elevation of these hills above the Mediterranean is about as follows: Mount
							Scopus 2,715 feet, Mount Olives 2,665 feet, Mount Offense 2,409 feet, Hill of Evil
							Counsel 2,552 feet, Mount Moriah 2,440 feet, Mount Zion 2,550 feet. 
							
								NATIVES EATING DINNER.
							
							 The highest point within the city is that which is
							called the Castle of Goliath, which is 2,581 feet high. The Valley of Kedron is 2,190
							feet, and the general level of the city 2,610 feet. The Hill of Ophel at the Triple
							Gate is 300 feet above the Pool of Siloam.
					

					

					

						HISTORY OF JERUSALEM.

						IT may be of some special interest to the reader to give here some
							of the past history of Jerusalem which is given by Phillip Schaff's "Dictionary of the
							Bible."

						The Jerusalem of our Lord and of his apostles is buried from twenty to eighty feet
							beneath the ruins and rubbish of centuries; the "City of David" lies still deeper
							below the surface of modern Jerusalem. In the fifteen centuries from Joshua to Titus,
							the city was besieged not less than seventeen times; twice it was razed to the ground,
							and twice its walls were destroyed. There is no trace on the surface now to be seen of
							the city in its glory. The ancient streets, walls, and buildings have long since
							disappeared, and the old sites and historical places have long been the subject of
							speculation and most bitter controversy . . .

						The earliest definite notice of Jerusalem is found in the description of the
							boundaries of Judah and Benjamin, where it is called Jebusi, after the people who
							inhabited it. See Josh. 15: 8; 18: 16, 28. The Jebusites still held the city after the
							conquest of the land under Joshua, Josh. 15: 63, but soon after his death the children
							of Judah besieged the city, took it and burned it, and destroyed its king, Adonibezek,
							Judges 1: 7, 8; yet it would appear from Judges 1: 31 that the entire city was not
							subdued, and Josephus states that the siege lasted some time, that the lower city only
							was taken, and that the upper city was so strong, from 
							its walls and the nature of the place, that they abandoned the attempt of completing
							the capture. Compare Judges 19: 10, 11. Through the rule of the Judges and the reign
							of Saul the stronghold continued in the possession of the Jebusites. After David
							became king of all Israel he made Jerusalem his capital, and the city of the Jebusites
							was taken by his chief captain, Joab; it was called "the stronghold of Zion," or "the
							city of David." 2 Sam. 5: 7; 1 Chr. 11: 6. From this time the rising grandeur and
							glory of Jerusalem as the seat of one of the noted empires of the East caused the city
							to take rank along with Nineveh, Babylon, and Tyre.

						2. Under the Kings.-- David began immediately to strengthen and to
							fortify the city by building a wall around it, and to increase the strength of the
							stronghold by connecting it with the city. This citadel he made his residence. He also
							brought the ark from Kirjathjearim to the house of Obed-edom, and thence to the "city
							of David," 2 Sam. 6: 2-16, thus making it the political and religious capital of the
							Israelitish nation. This choice of a capital was made by David, as elsewhere declared,
							under divine direction. Deut. 12: 5-21; 1 Kings 11: 36. It was the place where the
							Lord had chosen to put his name, Psa. 78: 68, as he may have done with the earlier
							spiritual capitals, Gilgal, Bethel, Shiloh, and Gibeon. The city of Zion also became
							the sepulcher of David and of the kings who succeeded him, and his royal gardens were
							in the valleys below.

						Under Solomon the city reached its greatest magnificence. His three important
							additions to the capital as founded by his father, David, were the temple, with its
							massive east wall, the royal palace, and the extension and strengthening of the walls
							of the city. The temple was built on the site which David purchased of Araunah the  Jebusite, 2 Sam. 24: 20-25; 1 Chr. 21: 22-28; 2 Chr. 3:
							1, and which was in Mount Moriah. David had also gathered a large portion of the
							wealth and of the materials required for erecting this magnificent sanctuary to the
							Lord, and had designed to build it himself, but was forbidden of the Lord because he
							had been a man of war. 1 Kings 8: 1, 19. In this vast work Solomon was aided by Hiram,
							king of Tyre, who furnished timber out of Lebanon, and cunning workmen in every kind
							of metal, and those skilled, no doubt, in the mechanical arts, as the Tyrians are
							known to have been unsurpassed in their day in this class cf work. In seven years the
							temple was completed and dedicated, and thus Jerusalem became the one central place of
							all the world to the true worshiper of Jehovah. A palace of grandeur corresponding to
							the extent and power of his empire, Solomon erected for himself within the chosen
							capital, taking thirteen years for its construction; he also built another royal
							edifice to beautify the city, and which is called the "house of the forest of
							Lebanon," perhaps from the "pillars of cedar" around it, 1 Kings 7: 2-7. A palace was
							likewise built for the queen, the daughter of Pharaoh. 1 Kings 7: 8. He extended the
							walls of the city probably around the newly built portions, added towers, and
							increased the height of the walls made by David; so that the Jerusalem of that period,
							with the splendor of Solomon's court, was unsurpassed for magnificence and brilliancy
							by any of the noted capitals of the East. The fame of it reached unto Sheba, whose
							queen came to behold it; and she declared that the half of the glory of the kingdom of
							which Jerusalem was the center had not been told her. 1 Kings 10: 7; 2 Chr. 9:
							1-12.

						The division of the kingdom under Rehoboam, which followed the death of Solomon,
							exposed the city to attack 
							
								RACHEL'S TOMB, NEAR BETHLEHEM.
							
							 from foreign foes. Shishak, jealous of the glory of
							Jerusalem, which had for two generations excelled that of Egypt, tempted by the
							treasures of the famous city, and perhaps influenced by Jeroboam, who had been an
							exile in Egypt and was the leader of the revolting tribes, invaded the land and made
							the southern kingdom tributary to i1he Pharaohs, bearing away the accumulated
							treasures of the temple, including five hundred golden shields, computed to represent
							$720,000-a vast sum for those days. Thirty years later, under Asa, Jerusalem regained
							her independence after the great battle with Zerah at Mareshah. 2 Chr. 14. 9-15. As
							the fruit of this victory, Asa replaced the vessels of the Lord's house taken by
							Shishak, rebuilt the altar, and probably added a new court to the temple, 2 Chr. 15:
							5, 8; these treasures were soon after granted to the king of Syria to secure his aid
							in a war against Baasha, king of Israel. 2 Chr. 16: 1, 2.

						In the idolatrous and troubled times which followed the alliance of the house of
							Jehoshaphat with that of the wicked Ahab, the glory of Jerusalem fell into a decline,
							but it revived for a time under Joash, who repaired the temple, only to despoil it
							when Hazael of Syria invaded the country, and threatened the capital. 2 Chr. 24:
							10-14, 23; 2 Kings 12: 17, 18. Later, under Amaziah, a large portion of the walls of
							Jerusalem was broken down by the armies of the northern kingdom of Israel. 2 Chr. 25:
							23. Uzziah repaired the walls and renewed the fortifications of the city, which were
							still further strengthened by his son Jotham, especially that part of the city on
							Moriah, Zion, and Ophel. It again declined under the wicked Ahaz, but was improved and
							made to approach the former magnificence attained in the days of Solomon by the
							extensive and remarkable works of Hezekiah. 2 Chr. 32:30; Isa. 22:9-11. Manasseh built
							a wall 
							
								A GROUP OF BEGGARS-- JERUSALEM.
							
							 outside of the city of David, enclosing Zion, and
							raised the tower of Ophel to a great height. 2 Chr. 33:14. With the ample supply of
							water provided by Hezekiah through the pools and conduits which he built, and the
							towers of defense constructed by Manasseh, the city was regarded as very strong, if
							not impregnable. Compare 2 Kings 20: 20; 2 Chr. 33: 14; Lam. 4: 12. The kingdom was,
							however, subject to Assyria. The subject king revolted; the capital was attacked, and
							was compelled to surrender to the force: of Nebuchadnezzar, who carried away all the
							treasures of the temple and the palace, and took as captives the princes, men of
							wealth, and the skilled artisans, numbering ten thousand, so that only the poorest of
							the people were left in the land, over whom Zedekiah was made king. Trusting to the
							aid of Pharaoh-hophra, Zedekiah rebelled, and Nebuchadnezzar again laid siege to
							Jerusalem, erecting forts, mounds, and engines of war to batter down the walls. This
							siege was temporarily raised by the approach of an Egyptian army, but the Assyrians
							speedily returned to the city, and invested it more closely than ever. Its
							inhabitants, shut up within its walls, suffered from all the horrors of famine,
							pestilence, and war for a year and a half, when the walls were broken and the place
							taken B. C. 586, the temple, palace, and chief buildings burned, the walls thrown
							down, and the city made a "heap of rubbish" by order of Nebuchadnezzar. The dreadful
							horrors of this siege and destruction are vividly portrayed by Jeremiah. Lam. 2 and 5.
							For fifty years the city lay in ruins.

						3. Jerusalem of Ezra and the Ptolemies.-- Under the decree of Cyrus
							the captives returned to Jerusalem, rebuilt the temple, and made the city again
							habitable; and later, under Nehemiah, the city was fortified, and the walls, which had
							been broken for one hundred and forty years, were 
							reconstructed, notwithstanding the opposition of Sanballat and Tobiah. Neh. 4: 7-22;
							6: 1-16. The extent of the walls built by Nehemiah is clearly indicated in Neh. 3, and
							they must have enclosed a far larger space than the reduced population could require.
							The following description of the city and its extent is from Baedeker's "Handbook of
							Syria" (1876): "The wall extended up the hill from the pool of Siloam toward the
							north. On the highest point of Ophel rose a bastion, which was also intended to
							protect the horse-gate, an entrance of the temple toward the east. Near the
							horse-gate, and within the precincts of the temple, were the dwellings of the priests.
							On the east side it is commonly supposed that there was a second gate, called the
							water-gate. There were also fortifications at the north end of the temple terrace, the
							most important being the Bira, a large bastion restored by Nehemiah, afterward the
							site of Baris. The city was further defended on the north side by the tower of
							Hananeel. There was also the tower of Mea, about fifty yards south of the other; but
							the site of both seems to be far from being even approximately determined. ... The
							wall which enclosed the upper city ran toward the west and had two gates-the gate of
							the center, which led from one part of the city to the other, and, to the extreme
							west, the valley-gate, afterward called Gennath, situated to the east of the present
							Jaffa gate, where Uzziah once erected a tower of defense. In the suburb to the north
							was, first, the corner-gate, which was probably the same as the old gate, and perhaps
							also the gate of Ephraim, the site of which, however, is quite uncertain. From the
							upper part of the city a gate led west toward the valley of Hinnom, called the
							dung-gate, where a rock staircase has been discovered. To the south a wall ran across
							the Tyropceon, at the outset of which lay the 
							spring-gate, or the valley between the two walls. The situation of the potters' gate,
							leading to the valley of Hinnom, is a matter of mere conjecture."

						The city prospered under Nehemiah as a Persian governor. In B. C. 366, Jeshua was
							murdered by his brother, Johanan, through rivalry for the high priesthood, and
							Bagoses, the Persian general, entered the sanctuary, and imposed a tax of fifty darics
							or drachmas for every lamb offered during the life-time of Johanan, which was seven
							years. The two sons of Johanan, Jaddua and Manasseh, held the high priest's office
							jointly until after their father's death, when Manasseh joined the Samaritans, and
							became the first high priest of their temple on Mount Gerizim. In B. C. 332 Alexander
							the Great, after the famous battle of Issus, in which lie gained a decisive victory
							over the Persians, visited Jerusalem, according to Josephus, and the high priest read
							to him the writings of Daniel, predicting the overthrow of Persia by the Greeks. This
							secured to the Jews various favors, among them an exemption from tribute during the
							sabbatical year. In B. C. 320, Ptolemy Soter captured Jerusalem because the Jews would
							not fight on the Sabbath, and large numbers of the people were transported to Africa.
							In B. C. 300, Simon the Just, a favorite hero among the Jews, became high priest, and
							added deep foundations to the temple, probably to gain greater surface on the top of
							the hill, sheathed the great sea with brass, strengthened and fortified the walls, and
							sustained the temple-service with great pomp and ceremony. Ptolemy Philadelphus, under
							whose direction the Septuagint Version of the Old Testament is reputed to have been
							made at Alexandria, also made rich gifts to the temple and its service.

						Jerusalem soon after became the prey of rival parties; 
							
								THE GRASS OF THE FIELD."
							
							 was visited by Ptolemy Philopator, who attempted to
							offer sacrifice in the temple, but was prevented by Simon, the high priest, and by a
							supernatural terror, which caused him to fall paralyzed upon the floor of the court.
							He afterwards showed great hostility to the Jews.

						Jerusalem was taken by Antiochus the Great, B. C. 203, and retaken by Scopas, the
							Alexandrian general, B. C. 199, but a year later was opened by the Jews to Antiochus,
							who rewarded them with large presents of money and materials for repairing the temple,
							and with considerable remission in taxes, declaring their temple inviolable. The city
							again had great apparent prosperity. After the death of Antiochus the Great, B. C.
							187, and under the reign of the infamous Antiochus Epiphanes (since B. C. 175), it
							became again the scene of commotion through strifes and disgraceful Greek customs,
							young men being trained naked in a new gymnasium set up by Jason the high priest, to
							whom Antiochus had sold the office; bribery, fraud, pillage, and riot were common; the
							holy place of the temple was polluted; a foreign garrison was placed in the hill of
							David, overlooking the temple; heathen worship was ordered to be celebrated in the
							sanctuary of Jehovah, and the Jews not slain were forced to submit to every species of
							indignity. Many of them resisted the efforts of Antiochus to destroy their religion,
							and suffered torments and bitter persecutions. See 1 Macc. 1:13; 2 Macc. 4:9, 12;
							6:10-31; 7. The Jews finally made a general revolt against the monstrous tyranny of
							Antiochus Epiphanes. A large army was raised under Judas Maccabeus, who gained a
							victory over Lysias, the Antiochian general, and the Jews re-entered Jerusalem, B. C.
							165. 2 Macc. 8.

						At the death of Judas Maccabus, B. C. 161, the city again had a period of
							disturbance and trouble, caused by  the dissensions of
							local rulers, until the time of John Hyrcanus, B. C. 135, when it was attacked by the
							king of Syria, who encircled it with seven camps, erected on the north a hundred
							towers of attack, each three stories high, and partially undermined the wall. A truce
							was, however, secured; the Syrians were induced to end the siege, and the walls were
							carefully repaired. After the death of Hyrcanus the city was the scene of murderous
							strifes and bloody wars between the petty rulers and the two leading sects, the
							Pharisees and Sadducees, no fewer than fifty thousand persons having fallen in these
							feuds in six years.

						The city was captured, B. C. 63, by the Roman Pompey, who left the valuable treasures
							of the temple intact; Crassus, in B. C. 54, however, plundered the temple and city of
							the treasures which Pompey had spared, amounting, it is computed, to ten thousand
							talents, or from $8,000,000 to $10,000,000. The city was captured by the Parthians
							under Antigonus, B. C. 40, but the next year Herod, afterward the Great, laid siege to
							Jerusalem, supported by a Roman army; the outer walls and lower city were taken in
							less than sixty days, and after prolonging the siege for five months the citadel and
							temple were captured by storm. Later, Herod was made king by the Romans. He speedily
							began to improve and beautify the city, one of the chief of his works being the
							enlarging of the temple, which occupied forty-six years. Under his rule the city was
							restored to something like its ancient magnificence.

						4. Jerusalem in New Testament Times.-- Jerusalem, in the time of
							our Lord, stood in all the strength and grandeur to which it had been brought by
							Herod. This king died a few months after the birth of Jesus, but the royal palace, the
							renewed temple, the fortress of Antonia, built from the older Baris tower, the grand
							theater where games were  instituted in honor of Csar,
							the three great towers of Hippicus, Phasalus, and Mariamne, the bridge of Herod.
							between the upper city and what had been a portion of Solomon's palace,-these
							magnificent structures of Herod remained. The ruin now known as "Robinson's Arch" is a
							part of the bridge of Herod. Except the aqueduct built under Pilate for the better
							supply of the city with water, no important improvements were made from the time of
							Herod the Great until the reign of his grandson, Herod Agrippa, A. D. 41. The second
							wall enclosed the northern part of the central valley of the city; beyond this lay
							Bezetha, or "new town," which Agrippa enclosed by a third wall, that doubled the size
							of the city. After his death Judea again became simply a Roman province, ruled by
							reckless and oppressive procurators, and Jerusalem was the scene of discontent,
							insurrections, riots, and petty rebellions, until Vespasian and Titus began a war to
							put down the insurrection. Jerusalem was besieged. The terrible sufferings and agony
							of the Jews shut up in the invested city, the loss of upward of one million lives in
							the siege, the complete destruction of the city, A. D. 70, form one of the darkest
							pages in the history of this remarkable people. The rebellion was kept up for about
							three years after the fall of the city, when the Jewish power was completely destroyed
							and the Jews denied access to their ancient capital.

						5. Jerusalem under Roman and Christian Emperors.-- The city and
							kingdom having been destroyed by Vespasian and Titus, a new Roman Jerusalem was
							founded by Hadrian upon the site of the ancient city, and called Aelia Capitolina; a
							temple of Jupiter was erected on the ruins of the temple of Jehovah. The Jews were not
							allowed to enter the city, and this law continued until the country  came under the rule of the Christian emperors of the
							Eastern Empire. Constantine restored the old name Jerusalem, and his mother, the
							Empress Helena, devoted herself to rediscovering the lost sites of importance to
							Christians, erecting costly churches to commemorate some of the supposed holy places.
							In the reign of Julian-commonly called the Apostate-an attempt was made to rebuild the
							temple, but an earthquake and other supernatural occurrences caused the work to be
							abandoned, and the event has been regarded as a judgment of God upon an impious
							attempt to falsify the words of Christ. Ammianus Marcelinus, a heathen historian,
							philosopher and a soldier of Julian, thus describes the failure of this attempt to
							rebuild the temple: "Whilst Alypius, assisted by the governor of the province, urged
							with vigor and diligence the execution of the work, horrible balls of fire breaking
							out near the foundations, with frequent and reiterated attacks rendered the place from
							time to time inaccessible to the scorched and blasted workmen; and the victorious
							element continuing in this obstinately and resolutely bent, as it were, to drive them
							to a distance, the undertaking was abandoned." Chrysostom declares that persons of his
							time were witnesses of this defeat of the effort to rebuild the temple, and that the
							above occurrences were the reason assigned for the failure of the project. This view
							has been strongly advocated by Bishop Warburton. . . . In A. D. 614 the Persians,
							under Chosroes II., captured Jerusalem, slew thousands of the monks and clergy, and
							destroyed their houses of worship.

						6. Jerusalem of the Crusaders and Turks.-- In A. D. 637 the city
							fell into the hands of Caliph Omar, and Christians were allowed to worship there, but
							not to erect houses of worship. After unusual severities upon the Christians by 
							
								TWO WOMEN GRINDING AT THE MILL.
							
							 a Turkish ruler, the Crusaders captured the city in A.
							D. 1099; it was reconquered, 1187, by the Mohammedans under Saladin. Thrice afterward
							it was in Christian hands; in 1517 it came into the possession of the Osmans, and has
							remained in the hands of the Turks until the present time.
					

					

					
						THE FALL OF JERUSALEM.

						IN describing the fall of Jerusalem, the historian Kitto says:
							Josephus, himself a Jew and an eye-witness of the facts he relates, gives a
							circumstantial account of the whole war, which furnishes complete evidences, not only
							of the truth of what Moses and the prophets had foretold, but also of all that in
							clearer vision, and to the perturbation and astonishment of his disciples, Christ had
							explicitly revealed concerning its then approaching fate. Heathen writers also record
							many of the facts.

						The prophecies from the Old Testament and from the New relative to the siege and
							destruction of Jerusalem are so numerous that the insertion of them at length would
							occupy a greater space than can here be devoted to the consideration of the subject.
							The reader may peruse them as they are to be found in the written Word. (Lev. 26: 14,
							etc. ; Deut. 28: 15, etc.; Isa. 29: 1, etc.; Ezek. 6: 7; Jer. 26: 18; Micah 3: 12;
							Mat. 21: 33, etc.; 22: 1-7; 24; Mark 13; Luke 20: 9-19; 21; 23: 27-31.) They require
							no other exposition of their meaning. Exclusive of literal predictions, frequent
							allusions are interspersed throughout the Gospels respecting the abolition of the
							Mosaic dispensation, and the utter subversion of the Jewish state.

						A nation of fierce countenance, of an unknown tongue, and swift as the eagle flieth,
							were to come from a distant  land against the Jews-to
							despoil them of all their goods-- to besiege them in all their gates-to bring down
							their high and fenced walls. They were to be left few in number-- to be slain before
							their enemies; the pride of their power was to be broken; their cities to be laid
							waste, and themselves to be destroyed-to be brought to nought-- to be plucked from off
							their own land-- to be sold into slavery, and to be so despised that none would buy
							them. Their high places were to be rendered desolate-- their bones to be scattered
							about their altars; Jerusalem was to be encompassed round about-- to be beseiged with
							a mount-to have forts raised against it-- to be plowed over like a field-- to become
							heaps, and to come to an end. The sword, the famine, and the pestilence were to
							destroy them.

						The Jews lived fearless of judgments like these, when they dwelt in peace, and would
							not listen to the voice of Jesus. They would have no king but Casar; and they trusted
							in the power of the Roman Empire as the security of their state. But He whom they
							rejected showed how God had rejected them, how they were filling up the measure of
							their fathers, and how all these judgments that had been denounced of old, and others
							of which their fathers had not heard, were to be felt by many, and to be all witnessed
							by some who were living then. And the Man of sorrows, whose face was set as a flint
							against his own unequalled sufferings, and who shed not a tear on his own account, was
							moved to pity, and his heart was melted into tenderness, on contemplating the great
							crimes and the coming calamities of the wicked, impenitent, and devoted city: "when he
							beheld Jerusalem, he wept over it."

						The expiration of thirty-six years from the death of Christ to the destruction of
							Jerusalem; the death, previous to that event, of at least two of the evangelists who
							record  the prophecies concerning it; the manner in
							which the predictions and allusions respecting the fate of Jerusalem are interwoven
							throughout the gospel; the warning given to the disciples of Christ to escape from the
							impending calamities, and the annunciation of the signs whereby they would know of
							their approach; the dread that was cherished by some of the earliest converts to the
							Christian faith that the day of judgment was then at hand, and which had arisen from
							the prophecies concerning the destruction of Jerusalem being closely connected with
							those relative to the second coming of Christ and the end of the world (all of which
							things his disciples had asked him to reveal) ; the unanimous assent of antiquity to
							the prior publication of the gospel; and the continued truth of the prophecy still
							manifested in Jerusalem being yet trodden down of the Gentiles-afford as full a proof
							as could now be thought of that the predictions were delivered previous to the
							event.

						No coincidence can be closer in relation to the facts than that which subsists
							between the predictions of Jesus and the narrative of the Jewish historian. Yet, as
							the reader will doubtless perceive, this coincidence is not more clear than that which
							subsists between the testimony of modern unbelievers and those prophecies which refer
							to the past and present desolation of Juda; wars, rumors of wars, and commotions;
							nation rising against nation, and kingdom against kingdom; famines, pestilences, and
							earthquakes in divers places; though the greatest of human evils that mortals fear
							were to be but the "beginning of sorrows"-- the heralds of heavier woes. Many false
							Christs were to appear, and to deceive many. The disciples of Jesus were to be
							persecuted, afflicted, imprisoned, hated of all nations, and brought before rulers and
							kings for his name's sake, and many of them were to be put to death. Iniquity was  to abound, and the love of many was to wax cold; but the
							gospel of the kingdom was to be preached in all the world. The abomination of
							desolation was to be seen standing in the place where it ought not. Jerusalem was to
							be compassed about with armies, a trench was to be cast about it, and they were to be
							hemmed in on every side. And there were to be fearful sights and great signs from
							heaven. These were to be the signs that the end of Jerusalem was at hand. And there
							was to be great distress upon the land, and wrath upon the people; the tribulation was
							to be such as had never been, and would never be. The Jews were to fall by the edge of
							the sword; a remnant was to be led captive into all nations; of the temple, and of
							Jerusalem itself, one stone was not to be left upon another; and it was to be trodden
							down of the Gentiles till the time of the Gentiles should be fulfilled.

						The prodigies which preceded the war, as related by Josephus, are these:

						A comet, which bore the resemblance of a sword, hung over the city of Jerusalem for
							the space of a whole year.

						A short time before the revolt of the Jews, a most remarkable and extraordinary light
							was seen about the altar of the temple. It happened at the ninth hour of the night
							preceding the celebration of the feast of the passover, and continued about half an
							hour, giving a light equal to that of day. Ignorant persons considered this unusual
							and wonderful appearance as a happy omen; but those of superior judgment averred that
							it was a prediction of approaching war; and their opinion was fully confirmed by the
							event.

						The eastern gate of the interior part of the temple was composed of solid brass, and
							was of such an immense weight that it was the labor of twenty men to make it fast
							every night. It was secured with iron bolts and bars, which 
							
								GROUP OF LEPERS.
							
							 were let down into a largo threshold consisting of an
							entire stone. About the fifth hour of the night this gate opened without any human
							assistance; immediate notice of which being given to the officer on duty, he lost no
							time in endeavoring to restore it to its former situation; but it was with the utmost
							difficulty that he accomplished it. There were likewise some ignorant people who
							deemed this to be a second good omen, insinuating that Providence had thereby set open
							a gate of blessings to the people, but persons of superior discernment were of a
							contrary opinion, and concluded that the opening of the gate predicted the success of
							the enemy, and destruction of the city.

						A short time after the celebration of the feast of the passover, before the setting
							of the sun, the appearance of chariots and armed men were seen in the air, in various
							parts of the country, passing round the city among the clouds.

						While the priests were going to perform the duties of their function, according to
							custom, in the inner temple, on the feast of Pentecost, they at first heard an
							indistinct murmuring, which was succeeded by a voice, repeating, in the most plain and
							earnest manner, these words: "Let us be gone, let us depart hence."

						But the most extraordinary circumstance of the whole was this. Some time before the
							commencement of the war, and while the city appeared to be in the most perfect peace,
							and abounded in plenty, there came to the feast of tabernacles a simple countryman, a
							son of one Ananias, who, without any previous intimation, exclaimed as follows: "A
							voice from the east; a voice from the west; a voice from the four quarters of the
							world; a voice to Jerusalem, and a voice to the temple; a voice to men and women newly
							married; and a voice to the nation at large." In this 
							manner did he continue his exclamations, in various places through all the streets of
							the city; at which some persons of eminence in the city were so offended, that they
							ordered him to be apprehended, and severely whipped. This was accordingly done, but he
							bore his sufferings not only without complaint, but without saying a word in his own
							defense; and no sooner was his punishment ended than he proceeded in his exclamation
							as before. By this time the magistrates were suspicious (and indeed not without
							reason) that what he had said proceeded from the divine impulse of a superior power,
							that influenced his words. In consequence of this, they sent him to the governor of
							Juda, who directed that he should be whipped with the greatest severity. This order
							was so strictly obeyed, that his very bones were seen, notwithstanding which, he
							neither wept nor supplicated, but, in a voice of mourning, between each stroke,
							exclaimed, "Woe, woe to Jerusalem!" From this very extraordinary behavior, the
							governor was induced to interrogate him with respect to his character, and the places
							of his birth and residence, and what could prompt him to act as he had done. He would
							not, however, make any answer to either of these questions; upon which the governor
							found himself under the necessity of dismissing him, as a man out of his senses. From
							this period to the commencement of the war, he was never known either to visit or
							speak to any of the citizens, nor was he heard to say any other words than the
							melancholy sentence, "Woe, woe to Jerusalem." Those who daily punished him received no
							ill language from him; nor did those who fed him receive his thanks, but what he
							generally said to every one was an ominous prediction. It was remarked that on public
							festivals he was more vociferous than at other times; and in the manner before
							mentioned he continued for the space  of more than three
							years; nor did his voice or strength appear to fail him till his predictions were
							verified by the siege of Jerusalem. As soon as this event took place, he went for the
							last time on the wall of the city, and exclaimed with a more powerful voice than
							usual, "Woe, woe to this city, this temple, and this people"; and concluded his
							lamentation by saying, "Woe, woe be to myself." He had no sooner spoken these words
							than, in the midst of these predictions, he was destroyed by a stone thrown from an
							engine.

						Having thus mentioned the very singular prodigies which preceded the destruction of
							Jerusalem, as related by Josephus, we shall now proceed to give an account of the
							circumstances which occasioned the war, together with its progress, which at length
							brought on the final ruin and destruction of the Jewish state.

						The commencement of the war was occasioned, partly by the infamous behavior of
							Albinus, the Roman governor of Judea, and partly by the refractoriness of many of the
							principal people of Jerusalem. The oppressions of the Romans were great. Insurrections
							arose in Jerusalem, and towns and cities throughout the country were attacked and
							destroyed by both Jews and Romans. Under the direction of Florus, about twenty
							thousand Jews were massacred at one time in Csarea. Cestius, the governor of Syria,
							waged war against the Jews, devastating the towns and cities with great destruction of
							life, until his army reached Jerusalem in order to be present at the time of the
							celebration of the feast of tabernacles. A fierce battle ensued, and the province
							continued to be in a state of turmoil. In the mean time, during the time of these
							exciting scenes and occurrences, many changes were taking place in various places of
							the Roman Empire. A general council was called, and it was decided upon that Titus
							should prosecute the war 
							
								SHEPHERDS AND THE SHEEP.
							
							 against the Jews, and Vespasian should go to
							Alexandria. Vitellius was the ruler at Rome at the time, but was so overbearing and
							tyrannical as to have the displeasure of the leading men of the Empire. Soon after a
							desperate battle was fought between the troops of Antonius and Vitellius, the latter
							being defeated. Vitellius was unmercifully treated, and finally executed and his body
							thrown into the river Tiber.

						As soon as the fury of this carnage was over, the Roman senate assembled, and, with
							unanimous consent, not only declared Vespasian emperor, but conferred the title of
							Casar upon his two sons, Titus and Domitian; nominating the former to be consul with
							his father for the ensuing year, and the latter to be prtor with consular power. They
							likewise rewarded Mucianus and Antonius, with several others, for contributing to this
							happy revolution; and despatched couriers to Vespasian, at Alexandria, to tender him
							their homage and obedience, and to desire his speedy return to Rome. On this occasion
							the people made two festivals one for their deliverance from the tyranny of Vitellius,
							and the other for the happy advancement of Vespasian to the government of the Empire.
							But it is now time to return to Titus.

						Before Vespasian left Juda, he, by the advice of his council, committed the
							management of the war against the Jews to his son Titus, well knowing his
							extraordinary valor and skill for such an undertaking. Himself had reduced most of the
							country, except Jerusalem; but Jerusalem was the capital city, fortified with three
							walls on every side, except where it was fenced with deep valleys, having the castle
							of Antonia, the temple, the palace of Acra, the towers on Mount Sion, and several
							other places almost impregnable; so that great consultation, and a preparation of many
							materials, were required to carry on such a siege.

						

						The inhabitants of Jerusalem had been for a long time in the most distressed
							situation, owing to the several parties and factions which had taken possession of
							different parts of the city, and were not only murdering each other, but in their rage
							and madness, destroyed such a quantity of provisions as might have served the city for
							several months.

						Jerusalem was involved in these sad circumstances, when Titus, with a powerful army,
							and all kinds of warlike engines, approached, and sat down within six or seven
							furlongs of the city, a little before the feast of the passover. By these means he
							shut up an infinite number of people who had come from all parts to that solemnity,
							which, in a short time, occasioned a great consumption of their provisions.

						On the first appearance of so formidable an army, the several factions unanimously
							agreed to oppose it; in consequence of which, they sallied out with great resolution
							and fury, and putting the Romans to disorder, obliged them to abandon their camp, and
							fly to the mountains. But the Jews were at last repulsed, and driven into the city by
							Titus, who particularly distinguished himself as a courageous and expert warrior.

						When Titus had properly placed his engines (which was not done without great
							opposition), he battered the outward walls, and, on the third day of May, making a
							breach, entered and took possession of the northern quarter of the city, as far as the
							castle of Antonia and the Valley of Kedron. Having done this, he gave the besieged all
							possible assurances of pardon and civil treatment if they would but submit: but they,
							judging his order to be the effect of cowardice, refused to accept of any terms or
							conditions whatever.

						On the fifth day after this, Titus broke through the 
							second wall, and though the besieged made several sallies, and drove him out again,
							yet he recovered the place, and possessed himself of the lower city.

						Though Titus was now thoroughly convinced, in his own mind, that lie could by force
							of arms easily make a complete conquest of the city, yet he was willing, if possible,
							to effect it without any further loss of blood. He therefore, in the first place, sent
							a messenger to the Jews requesting that they would have so much regard to their own
							interest as to surrender a place, of which he could, at any time, make himself master.
							But this not answering his wishes, he despatched Josephus to them, thinking that when
							they were addressed by their own countryman, and in language familiar to them, it
							might probably be attended with success. In conformity to the directions given by
							Titus, Josephus first walked through several parts of the city, after which, stopping
							on an elevated spot, within the hearing of the enemy, he addressed them in words to
							this effect:
						"Countrymen and friends, it is my earnest request, that if you
								have any esteem for your lives and liberties, any veneration for your city, your
								temple, and your country, you will, on the present occasion, give a proper testimony
								of your sensibility, and learn, even from strangers and enemies, to have a proper
								regard to your own interest. You may have observed, that the Romans entertain so
								great a veneration for sacred things, that they make a scruple of seizing any thing
								that is holy; and this they do, though they never presumed to have any share,
								concern, or interest in your communion; whereas you, on the contrary, instead of
								protecting the religion in which you were educated, seem conspiring to complete its
								destruction. Are you not by this time convinced that, your fortresses being beaten
								down and a great part of your walls left in a defenseless 
								
									TOMB OF LAZARUS.
								
								 condition, your weakness is sufficiently exposed, and
								that it is an absolute impossibility to support yourselves much longer against so
								formidable a power as that with which you have to contend ? It is true, that
								engaging in the cause of liberty is a glorious task, provided it be undertaken
								before that liberty is likely to be lost or forfeited; but when the latter is the
								case, it is idle to think of attempting to throw it off, and all further endeavors
								will rather tend to produce a disgraceful death than give the opportunity of
								preserving a life of honorable freedom. A state of bondage to a master whom a man of
								honor would blush to acknowledge his superior is indeed a scandalous state; but
								submission to a people whose authority is acknowledged by the whole world is by no
								means disgraceful. Conscious of this truth, your ancestors, who were more wise and
								powerful than you are, were induced to pay allegiance to the Romans, which they
								certainly would not have done had they not been fully convinced that it was the will
								of Providence they should submit. But wherefore would you any longer continue a
								contest that is, in effect, already decided? For if your walls were yet perfect, and
								the siege actually raised, so long as the Romans resolved not to quit the place, you
								must soon be starved into submission. Famine has already made great havoc among you,
								and the calamity will daily increase, as there is no guarding against the
								consequence of the severities of hunger. It will therefore well become you to
								recollect yourselves, and take advice while it may be serviceable to you. The Romans
								are of a liberal disposition, and will be ready to forgive all that is past, if you
								do not continue to exasperate them till forgiveness would look like weakness. But if
								you resist till they storm th city, instead of mercy, you will fatally experience
								their resentment from the point of the sword."

						

						These friendly admonitions made not the least impression on the perverse Jews, who,
							instead of paying attention to them, treated Josephus with the utmost contempt, and,
							had he not been properly guarded, would have put him to death. In consequence of this,
							Titus resolved to proceed \7ith the utmost severity against them. Accordingly, when my
							fled from the city (which great numbers were constrained to do on account of the want
							of provisions), they were no sooner taken than Titus ordered them to be scourged and
							crucified. This, however, he did not do from motives of cruelty, but with a view of
							striking terror in the multitude, in hopes that they would the sooner give up all
							opposition, and surrender themselves to the superior force of his arms.

						Finding every method ineffectual to bring the Jews to submission, Titus, on the 12th
							of May, began four mounts for his battering-rams, two near the castle of Antonia,
							where lie was in hopes of taking the temple, and two near the monument of John, the
							high priest, where he supposed lie might, without much difficulty, break into the
							upper city. But in two bold sallies, the besieged ruined and destroyed the mounts,
							and, having burnt several battering-rams, and other engines, pressed forward, and
							broke into the very camp of the Romans. At length they were repulsed by Titus, who (in
							a council of war) resolved to surround the whole city with a wall or intrenchment, to
							hinder the flight of the besieged, and to prevent all relief from coming into the
							city, thereby strictly verifying the words of our blessed Redeemer: "The days shall
							come upon thee, that thine enemies shall cast a trench about thee and compass thee
							around, and keep thee in on every side." Luke 19:43.

						This work was executed with such astonishing celerity, that the whole was finished
							within the space of a few days.  But it made no
							impression on the besieged, notwithstanding the famine began to rage with the most
							horrid violence, and such a mortality ensued, that within the space of three months no
							less than 115,080 carcasses of the poorer sort were carried to be buried at the public
							charge, 600,000 were thrown out at the gates; and when the number of dead bodies
							increased to such a degree that they had no place to bury them, they gathered them
							together in the largest houses adjoining, and there shut them up.

						All this time the famine increased to such a degree, that wives took the meat out of
							their husbands' mouths, children from their parents, and mothers from their children;
							old men were driven from their meat as persons of no use, and young men tortured to
							confess where their provisions lay; sinks and holes were continually raked to find
							offal for food, and the very soldiers (who were the last that would want) began to eat
							girdles, shoes, hay, and other articles; and, what was worst of all, and the most
							shocking to human nature, a woman of quality even boiled her own child with an intent
							to eat it. This act appeared so detestable in the eyes of Titus, that (after having
							repeatedly offered peace and pardon to the Jews if they would submit and as often
							received a denial) he publicly declared that "he would bury the abominable crime in
							the ruins of their country, and not suffer the sun to shine upon that city, whose
							mothers eat their own children, and whose fathers, no less culpable, did by their
							obstinancy, reduce them to such an extremity."

						With this resolution he ordered all the groves to be cut down within a considerable
							distance of the city, and, causing more mount to be raised, on the first of July he
							began to batter the wall of Antonia, and, on the fifth, entered the castle by force,
							and pursued the flying Jews even to the 
							
								THRESHING FLOOR.
							
							 temple. Both Titus and Josephus again exhorted them to
							surrender, but all to no purpose: they absolutely refused .every accommodation, and
							even boasted that rather than submit they would glory in enduring the worst of
							miseries. Titus, hearing this, in order to make an easy ascent to the temple, ordered
							the fortress of Antonia to be razed to the ground, and having seized the north and
							west porticoes, or cloisters of the outward range of the temple, he set them on file,
							as the Jews did other porticoes, to hinder the Romans from making their
							approaches.

						On the eighth day of August, Titus, perceiving that the walls of the inner temple
							were too strong for the battering-rams, and that the foundation of the gates could not
							be undermined, was obliged to set fire to them, yet still with an intent, if possible,
							to save the temple itself; but it so fell out that, on the tenth, a certain soldier,
							contrary to the command of the general, cast a flaming firebrand through the golden
							window into the chambers and buildings on the north side, which immediately set them
							on fire. The utmost endeavors were used to prevent the fatal effects of this
							proceeding, but to no purpose. The flames spread throughout the whole fabric, and soon
							consumed the most beautiful structure that ever was erected; while the Roman soldiers,
							pursuing their victory with the most imaginable fury and revenge, cut to pieces every
							person they found about the temple and then set fire to the rest of the buildings.

						During this state of general confusion, those who were the chiefs in the sedition
							found means to retire to the upper and strongest part of the city, called Sion,
							situated upon a steep rock, where they endeavored to defend themselves to the last.
							But, Titus having raised his batteries and made a breach in the wall, they lost all
							their courage, abandoned the towers, which were their only strength, and in 
							
								JERUSALEM FROM SOUPUS.
							
							 vain sought to escape by hiding themselves in vaults
							and privies, whence both John and Simon (two principal ring-leaders of their different
							factions) were dragged out, and the former condemned to perpetual imprisonment, while
							the latter was preserved to grace the victor's triumph.

						The Romans, having now gained the walls, and with shouts of joy placed their colors
							upon the towers, broke loose all over the city, and ranged up and down the street,
							killing all that fell in their way without distinction, till the passages were filled
							up with the carcasses, and the channels of the city ran down with blood, as if it 1hd
							been to quench the fire, which was become, as it were, c:n general conflagration.

						To this fatal end was the famous city of Jerusalem, after a siege of about five
							months, reduced, in the second year of Vespasian's reign, and thirty-eight years after
							our Lord's crucifixion. In this siege it was computed that 1,100,000 perished, and
							97,000 were taken captives, beside 237,490 (according to Josephus) who fell in the
							wars which preceded it.

						The greater part of the buildings in the city being consumed by fire, and the
							soldiers having neither rapine nor object left for their rage and indignation to work
							upon, Titus ordered them to lay the remaining parts of the city and temple level with
							the ground: which order was so punctually executed, that (except three towers, which,
							for their strength and beauty, were left as monuments to posterity of the once
							magnificence of the city) the whole was laid so flat, that, when the Romans left the
							place, it looked as if it had never been inhabited. .. .

						Such was the end of the once famous city of Jerusalem, and such the end of the Jewish
							polity; from which time those obstinate and perverse people were no longer a nation,
							but have ever since been dispersed and despised throughout the whole face of the
							earth.
					

					

					
						MARKET SCENE NEAR THE JAFFA GATE-- JERUSALEM.
					

					

					

						THE CITY OF TO-DAY.

						JERUSALEM, because of its world-wide reputation as the Holy City,
							causes the traveler to look forward with great anticipations. Because of the historic
							facts in past ages one would naturally expect a marvelous city to be presented to the
							vision. When first seen at a distance, or from Mount of Olives, it is an attractive
							city, but upon entering the city, most travelers are sadly disappointed. It is not the
							city that stood in the days of Solomon, with all its splendor and glory. There is not
							a trace of the great buildings nor of the beautiful temple towering above the earth.
							It it not the city as it stood in the days of Christ and the apostles. Neither is
							there any trace of the temple to which the apostles called the attention of Jesus
							regarding its beauty, when he remarked that not one stone of it should be left upon
							another that should not be thrown down. This prophecy was afterward fulfilled, when
							the temple was destroyed. There being such a great amount of gold, which was melted by
							the fire and ran down into the crevices of the rocks and foundation of the building,
							that afterward those searching for the gold removed every stone in order to secure
							their rich treasures, not realizing that by so doing they were fulfilling the prophecy
							of Jesus.

						Jerusalem passed through the sieges of many wars and destructions. At different times
							the city was razed to the ground; but it was each time rebuilt upon its own heaps of
							stone and debris, fulfilling the scripture in Jer. 30: 18, which says, "And the city
							shall be builded upon her own heap." Thus we find above the city as it was in
							Solomon's time is that of Nehemiah, and above this ancient city rebuilt at later days
							the city of the apostolic times, and since its destruction in the year A. D. 70 until
							now we have 
							
								GATE OF CHIST'S TRIUMPHANT ENTRY.
							
							 the modern city builded upon the heaps of the ancient
							cities. Notwithstanding all these changes, there is undoubtedly a marked similarity of
							buildings, streets, manners and customs, and such like. The one who arrives at the
							gate of the city expecting to find within the glorious beauty of past ages, and who in
							his imagination is picturing scenes of wonderful beauty and glory, will meet with sad
							disappointment almost immediately upon passing through the gates.

						The walls of the present city are nearly forty feet in height. There are eight gates
							through the walls. Some of these are broad enough to admit carriage and horses,
							leaving some space on either side, and each consists of a long archway almost like
							passing; through a building. It is about two and one-half miles around the walled
							city. Only two or three streets are suitable for driving with carriages, and they only
							for a short distance. The other streets are narrow, crooked, and winding about, dirty,
							and in many places filthy to the extreme. The city is not built on level ground. Many
							of the streets wind about, up and down the hillside, with rough stone pavement. In
							some places, about every twelve or fifteen feet is an offset of from six to twelve
							inches, making it almost like going up and down a stairway; while in other places the
							streets are more level, averaging from eight to fifteen feet in width. Here will be
							found people crowding along the streets. Among the throng will be many donkeys,
							camels, goats, and dogs. It would take but little imagination to realize something
							about the filth and awful stench in such places. While this is very offensive to the
							traveler unused to such places, the natives of the place seem to pass by without
							giving it notice.

						The dwelling-houses as they appear consist of a number 
							
								WILDERNESS OF JUDEA
							
							 of separate departments, most of them with an entrance
							and a dome-shaped roof of their own. These flat-shaped chambers are pleasant and cool
							in summer. The rooms are of different sizes, a very irregular group. Between them the
							rough passage and staircase are in the open air, a very undesirable arrangement in
							rainy weather, in time of which it is the custom of the women to provide themselve
							with pattens. Some houses have flat roofs, but in this is a solid cupola. The cupolas
							do not spring from the tops of the walls, but a little within them, so that is it
							possible to walk around the outside of the cupolas. Roofs are frequently provided with
							parapets of earthen pipes constructed in a triangular form. Pots and troughs for
							flowers are built in the roofs and courts by the architects. In the walls of the rooms
							are niches serving as cupboards. In some of the houses there are no glass windows, nor
							are chimneys by any means generally used. The charcoal smoke in the absence of the
							chimneys is allowed to escape by the doors and windows. The rooms are usually warmed
							with charcoal brasiers. Only houses built on the European plan and hotels are provided
							with stoves. The floors are made of very hard cement. Many of the streets of the
							bazaars, or market-places, are arched or bridged over, making a kind of blind alley.
							Many of the houses being fiat-roofed or having places to walk about on the top, form
							passageways from the top of one house to another across streets in various places.
							Some give this as an explanation of what Jesus meant when speaking of the destruction
							of Jerusalem. In telling of the time to make their escape, he said for those who were
							on the housetop not to come down. They could make a much better escape over the tops
							of the houses than to go down to the crowded streets.

						The question is often asked, Is there a place in the 
							
								DAVID'S TOWVER-- JERUSALEM.
							
							 walls of the city of Jerusalem called the "needle's
							eye," which camels in order to pass through must have their burdens removed and get
							down upon their knees? We saw no such place in the walls of the city. What there might
							have been in the ancient walls is only a matter of conjecture.

						There are but few streets in the city that are named, and the houses are not
							numbered. The natives have ways of finding places, but it is often with considerable
							difficulty, especially is it so to strangers who visit the city. We asked a business
							man how they managed to find their customers. He said, "We have to in some way learn
							their location of residence; but if they happen to move to another place without
							giving notice, it is sometimes weeks or months before we are able to locate them
							again."

						As the Jews are greatly oppressed and denied many rights concerning citizenship and
							the ownership of property, in many respects it is very difficult to procure a census
							of the population, for many who have been living there for a long time deny
							citizenship for fear of certain kinds of persecution and oppression by the government.
							The place is under Turkish rule, and is divided into religious or national localities
							or quarters. For instance, one part is called the Christian quarter, and others Jewish
							quarter, Armenian quarter, Mohammedan or Turkish quarter, etc. It is difficult to tell
							the exact population, which is probably near 80,000. About the year 1898 an estimate
							was made of about 60,000, of which number about 7,000 were Mussulmans or Mohammedans,
							4,000 Jews, and 12,800 Christians. Those called Christians included 4,000 Latins,
							2,000 United Greeks, 800 Romans, 100 Copts, 100 Ethiopians, 100 Syrians, and 1,400
							Protestants. The Arabs were also included, and a colony of Africans. The different
							nationalities are distinguished by their costumes. 

						

						During the last fifteen or twenty years there has been quite an increase in the
							number of Jews, as through the influence of Baron Rothschild and other rich Jews much
							has been done to aid the Jews in being better cared for in that country, and they have
							had better privileges than before; but their privileges are yet quite limited, and
							they still have a hatred towards the Christians. We were told that over six hundred
							Jews left Palestine last year in order to get work and procure a living elsewhere,
							because of the oppression and deprivation of proper liberties in Jerusalem and
							Palestine. The last statistics of the Jews in the world give the number as 11,037,000,
							of which only about 78,000 are attributed as being residents of Palestine.
					

					

					

						THE JEWS' WAILING-PLACE.

						IN passing through the city down its narrow, winding streets,
							after making many crooks and turns, finally a narnow lane-like place is reached, with
							walls about sixty feet in height on one side. This is near the temple grounds, and
							here the Jews come almost every day of the week, and especially on Friday afternoon,
							to bewail the downfall of Jerusalem. At this place they can be seen in crowds; some of
							them in long, flowing robes; some with bare feet, ragged, and dirty; others in their
							beautiful white linen and turban caps; women in their native gowns. All come for the
							purpose of wailing. While here they read their Hebrew prayer-books. Some of them read
							silently, and some aloud. Now and then they break out in hideous cries, moaning and
							wailing, kissing the walls, striking their foreheads against the hard stone, and
							sometimes pulling their hair or beard, as if bewailing their situation and condition,
								
							
								THE JEWS' WAILING PLACE.
							
							 asking God to give them back their holy city once more,
							and to restore the kingdom to Zion.

						As they stood there bewailing their condition and reading the law of Moses, we were
							reminded of the words of St, Paul in 2 Cor. 3:14, 16, which says: "But their minds
							were blinded: for until this day remaineth the same veil untaken away in the reading
							of the old testament; which veil is done away in Christ. But even unto this day, when
							Moses is read, the veil is upon their heart. Nevertheless when it shall turn to the
							Lord, the veil shall be taken away."

						Truly they are still in blindness concerning the Word of God. They will not accept
							Jesus as the Christ, and go on trying to live under the old Mosaic law, hoping in vain
							for the time of the Messiah and the restoration of the kingdom in the way they are
							expecting. Some of them at least are expecting the time to come when the Messiah will
							come while they are there praying at that wailing-place. They believe the time is
							coming when suddenly that high wall will fall, and they will be enabled to enter the
							holy ground of the temple undefiled with the Messiah as ruler of the kingdom, and some
							of them at least believe that the Jews everywhere will be gathered together again in
							the Holy City, or, at any rate, in Palestine. The poor, blinded souls do not know that
							Jesus Christ through his death upon the cross broke down the middle wall of partition
							between the Jews and the Gentiles. "For he is our peace, who hath made both one, and
							hath broken down the middle wall of partition between us; having abolished in his
							flesh the enmity, even the law of commandments contained in ordinances; for to make in
							himself of twain one new man, so making peace; and that he might reconcile both unto
							God in one body by the cross, having slain the enmity thereby: and came and preached
							peace to you which were afar off, 
							
								DAVID'S STREET-- JERUSALEM.
							
							 and to them that were nigh. For through him we both
							have access by one Spirit unto the Father." Eph. 2: 14-18.

						This partition wall of nationality has been broken down never to be put up again, and
							one nation is not to be distinguished above another in Christ Jesus. We read in 2 Cor.
							5:15,16 that from the time Christ died and arose again no man is to be known after the
							flesh, although before his death and resurrection he and the people of God were known
							as Jews; but since that time the people of God are not known as Jews; that is, not
							known after the flesh, but after the Spirit, and there will never come a time when the
							Jews literally as a nation will be recognized with favor in the kingdom of God, any
							more than any other people.

						The last commission of Christ was for his followers to go into all nations and preach
							the gospel, and whosoever believed should be saved. Mat. 28: 19, 20; Mark 16: 15, 16.
							Since that time the Israel of God are his people through a spiritual birth, and only
							those who have received this change of heart or spiritual birth are the Israel of God.
							This is the meaning of the words in Rom.. 11: 26, 27, which says, "And so all Israel
							shall be saved: as it is written, There shall come out of Sion the Deliverer, and
							shall turn away ungodliness from Jacob: for this is my covenant unto them, when I
							shall take away their sins." The Israel of past ages was the Jews after the flesh; the
							Israel of to-day is those who become Jews through a spiritual birth according to Rom..
							2:28, 29, which says, "For he is not a Jew, which is one outwardly; neither is that
							circumcision, which is outward in the flesh: but he is a Jew, which is one inwardly;
							and circumcision is that of the heart, in the spirit, and not in the letter; whose
							praise is not of men, but of God."

						It is a sad sight indeed to witness the wailing of the 
							Jews when they gather together in real earnestness, and especially to one who
							understands the meaning of the Scripture, and realizes the blindness of those poor
							deluded Jews. While they continue as Jews after the flesh, yet they are no longer the
							Israel of God nor Jews after the Spirit.
					

					

					
						THE TEMPLE GROUNDS.

						AMONG the most noted places in the city of Jerusalem is the
							enclosure of the temple grounds. This enclosure is known as Haram-esh-Sherif. This
							area covers about thirty-five acres, near the center of which stood the temple of
							Solomon, afterwards the temple of Zerubbabel, then the temple built by Herod in the
							time of Christ, which was destroyed by the Romans in A. D. 70. It was the
							last-mentioned temple that Christ prophesied should be destroyed and should not be
							rebuilt. An apostate by the name of Julian, who undertook to prove the prophecy of
							Christ to be false, at one time began the task of rebuilding that temple; but he did
							not proceed far, it is said, until balls of fire burst forth and prevented the workmen
							from continuing their work, and it had to be given up. This was about A. D. 362. The
							rebuilding was a complete failure. Near A. D. 136 a temple of Jupiter occupied this
							sacred spot, and a shrine of Venus was placed upon the site of the Holy Sepulcher.

						At the present time two notable buildings are in this inclosure, the most notable one
							being the Mosque of Omar, the other El Aksa. While there is no outward, visible trace
							of Solomon's temple or of the temple which existed in the time of Christ, nevertheless
							there have been excavations made which prove that it is the original site of Solomon's
								
							
								MOSQUE OF OMAR FROM THE SOUTH.
							
							 temple. Captains Wilson and Warren made excavations by
							sinking a shaft at the west wall of the southern extremity of the Wilson Arch. There
							they found twenty-one courses of beveled stones, three feet eight inches to four feet
							high, making in all seventy-five feet above the foundation rock. All these were in
							their original position, but covered with debris. The topmost of these stone blocks
							were from thirty-five to fifty-five feet below the present surface, being covered to
							that depth by the ruins of the buildings that have been built thereon. The stones of
							this wall underneath the ground are hewn smooth on every side except the outside,
							where they are beveled, and are jointed with mortar or cement, but so accurately that
							a knife can not be introduced between them. Because of certain marks of the masons
							from Tyre and marks of other masons, it is considered quite evident that this is the
							foundation wall of Solomon's temple.

						At the present time the place supposed to be the court of the temple is covered with
							flat stones, which occupy considerable space. Underneath are massive arched pillars
							and hallways, which are said to be Solomon's stables, but doubtless are of more modern
							invention. However, it is a place which would cause one to wonder for what other
							purpose it might have been used, it being deep down below the surface, and there in
							the corners of the massive pillars of rock are holes drilled through, which are
							supposed to have been the places where the horses were tied. In other places are stone
							troughs which are supposed to be where the horses ate their grain. We were told by the
							guide that frequently visitors began scratching around in the bottom of these troughs,
							and ask if any of the grain used for food for the horses can yet be found. While this
							may seem like a ridiculous question, it is not more so than some things 
							
								SOLOMON'S STABLES-- UNDER TEMPLE GROUNDS.
							
							 which we were told by the Catholics in Bethlehem, of
							which things mention will be made later.

						Down below these stables were great cisterns. They were large vaults cut out of soft
							rock, and had a depth of twenty-five feet and a capacity of from ten to twelve million
							gallons. It was said to be enough to furnish a year's supply of water for the whole
							city. A single cistern called the "Great Sea" would hold two million gallons. The
							water was supplied partly by the rain, and partly by an aqueduct, which connected
							these cisterns with Solomon's Pools beyond Bethlehem, about thirteen miles from
							Jerusalem. The overflow from these cisterns was conducted through a rock-cut channel
							into the valley of the Kedron, which also served as a sewer to carry away the refuse
							rising from the sacrifices at the temple.

						The Mosque of Omar, or principal building upon the temple grounds, is in charge of
							the. Mohammedans. It is an octavian building about sixty-six feet on each of the eight
							sides. The whole structure is one hundred and seventy feet high, with a large dome. It
							is built over a large rock, which is fifty-seven feet long and forty-three feet wide,
							and rises from one to six feet above the Mosaic marble pavement. This rock is inclosed
							by an iron railing. It is said to be the place where the Jews made their sacrifices.
							There is also a Jewish tradition that Melchizedek offered sacrifices there, and that
							it is the place where Abraham offered Isaac, where the ark of the covenant in the holy
							of holies stood, and many other traditional scenes. The Mohammedans also have equally
							as striking traditions concerning this place. Visitors before entering these places
							must remove their shoes, and put on some Mohammedan shoes or moccasins. This is done
							that the place may not be defiled by those who are not Mohammedans, because the place
							is supposed to be holy.

						

						
							ARCH OF ECCE HOMO.
						

						

						Notwithstanding the marvelous structure and workmanship of these buildings, yet to
							the Bible reader there is a sense of disappointment, especially so to those who are
							expecting to see the same temple standing that was in existence in the time of Christ,
							and many are the visitors who go there understanding that the original temple is
							there, and some even expect to see Solomon's temple. However, the scene is of such a
							nature that one can easily extend his imagination even to apostolic days, and there in
							his quiet meditations and imaginations see the scene of Christ standing over against
							the treasury where the widow cast in her mite; where the dove-sellers and
							money-changers were in the temple and driven out with a scourge of cords; where Satan
							took Jesus to the top of the pinnacle of the temple and asked him to cast himself
							down. In an imaginary vision can be seen the beautiful snowy white marble and the
							brilliant, shining gold, but, alas! it is all departed. Again, we can imagine the
							apostles Peter and John going up to the temple at the hour of prayer and the lame man
							by the gate Beautiful, where lie received the healing touch of the power of God
							through the instrumentality of Peter and John, and went leaping and shouting through
							the temple. But now we leave the temple grounds for other parts of the city.
					

					

					

						THE CHURCH OF THE HOLY SEPULCHER.

						ONE of the noted places in the city is the Church of the Holy
							Sepulcher. This is occupied by the Latins, or Roman Catholics, Greek Catholics,
							Armenians, and guarded by the Mohammedan custodians. The place, we might say, is
							filled with traditions and superstitions from top to bottom, from beginning to end.
							Although the site of Calvary and  the place of burial of
							Christ are located outside the city, nevertheless inside of the city in this Church of
							the Holy Sepulcher is claimed to be the original location of these places. Almost
							everything in here is of quite modern appearance in many respects. This is a very
							large and capacious structure, having many rooms and places of interest, especially to
							Catholics and visitors believing their traditions.

						As the visitor is shown from place to place, here will be pointed out the place where
							Christ was crucified. A hole in the rock with a piece of marble pot represents the
							place where he was nailed to the cross. They say that is Calvary. Yonder a few feet
							away is where Mary stood when she viewed the body of Christ as it was taken down from
							the cross. There is where the women stood witnessing the anointing. Over here is the
							stone upon which He laid while being anointed. At another place near by is a stone
							which is said to be a piece of the one which the angel rolled away from the tomb. Over
							to one side is the place where it is said Jesus appeared to Mary Magdalene. They point
							out the stone upon which Mary, the mother of Jesus, stood; another place where Abraham
							offered sacrifice; the place where Adam was buried; and the tomb where Christ lay. All
							these places are to be seen in a very small space. But by the time one has listened to
							their traditional stories and seen their traditional sites he has not much confidence
							left concerning the place being the original site as represented by these
							traditions.

						As a tradition to wind up the whole affair in the mind of the traveler, he is told
							about, and shown the place of, the holy fire, a small room, which is probably eight or
							ten feet in diameter, situated in the middle of the chapel, from which it is said the
							holy fire issues forth by miraculous power  once a year.
							To this place are gathered people from many nations during the festival of Easter,
							that they may procure some of the holy fire. Here they come with their candles, which
							are lighted and carried home. It is no uncommon thing for this so-called holy fire to
							be carried with lighted candles to Russia and other countries, where it is taken to
							the cathedrals, and there candles are lighted, and members of the Catholic churches
							come to these cathedrals and give very liberally of their means to have the privilege
							of obtaining some of the holy fire. Those who come to Jerusalem and receive this holy
							fire are granted the forgiveness of their sins, and special privileges and indulgences
							for some time to come. At the time of this festival the place is filled to the utmost
							capacity with pilgrims from every direction. They used to represent the entry of
							Christ riding on an ass from Beth phage, but this was afterward done in the entry of
							the church only. Palm and olive branches were scattered on the occasion, and to this
							day the Latins, or Roman Catholics, send to Gaza for palm branches.

						Out of a round hole, probably five or ten inches in diameter, a little distance above
							their heads the fire issues. After the crowd has been gathered together for hours
							anxiously waiting the moment when the miraculous power will send forth through this
							hole the fire, suddenly it makes its appearance. About 2 P. M. there is a flash of
							fire, and a brilliant blaze exudes through the hole. At this time there is nothing
							short of a regular stampede-- pushing, crowding, fighting, crushing each other in
							order that each may be the first to light his candle. There is a general hubbub, which
							frequently ends with serious results. Some believe it to be of such a nature that it
							will not burn human beings, and will even bear the torture of placing the flame at
							their necks, chests, or other parts of their bodies.

						

						In the year 1834 there was a terrible catastrophe on that occasion. When about six
							thousand persons were in the building a riot suddenly broke out, and the Turkish
							guards thought they were attacked and used their weapons against the pilgrims, and in
							the struggle which followed about three hundred pilgrims were killed.

						We were told that formerly the service was held at ten o'clock at night; but on
							account of the serious trouble which generally arose at such a time often resulting in
							the death of many, the Sultan ordered them to change the time of their festival and
							presentation of holy fire. However, he was told by the priests that the angel that
							came down and wrought the miracle of producing the holy fire came only at ten o'clock.
							But the ruler said he could not furnish soldiers and the proper protection at that
							time of the night and that the angel must come earlier; and as his orders were
							positive and unrelenting, there was no other way out than to have the angel come
							earlier. Accordingly as the ruler of the city ordered concerning the time for the
							angel to come, sure enough at the appointed hour, two o'clock in the afternoon, the
							holy fire made its appearance. One would not need to stretch his imagination very much
							to realize the situation of the affair and of one of the hypo-critical priests sitting
							in there with his invention for blowing the fire through the hole at the moment of the
							touching off his match at the appointed hour. The statement may seem almost
							incredulous, that people would yet undertake to hold such a festival or carry on in
							such a manner, but such is the case.

						In passing through these places, the visitor, of course, is expected to give some
							"backshish" to the one in charge of most of the places. Almost everywhere is some kind
							of a place with money-making schemes, and the Church  of
							the Holy Sepulcher is one of the most ridiculous of the kind imaginable, although
							thousands and thousands of dollars have been spent in its structure and decoration.
							Images, and burning candles, and so-called relics of antiquity are to be found
							throughout the entire place.

						To one who has been brought up to regard the Word of God as sacred, to come in
							contact with all these traditional things and hear the stories repeated over and over
							brings a feeling of disgust. It makes a person feel as if the Holy City had been
							turned over to idolatry, and that not only the Holy City, but the entire Holy Land,
							had become an unholy, God-forsaken place. Truly, it did seem to us while traveling
							through the land that the curse of God was upon it.
					

					

					

						THE POOL OF BETHESDA.

						WE were conducted to a place called the Pool of Bethesda, which is
							said to be the scene of John 5: 2-9, which reads as follows:

						"Now there is at Jerusalem by the sheep-market a pool, which is called in the Hebrew
							tongue Bethesda, having five porches. In these lay a great multitude of impotent folk,
							of blind, halt, withered, waiting for the moving of the water. For an angel went down
							at a certain season into the pool, and troubled the water; whosoever then first after
							the troubling of the water stepped in was made whole of whatsoever disease he had. And
							a certain man was there which had an infirmity thirty and eight years. When Jesus saw
							him lie, and knew that he had been now a long time in that case, he saith unto him,
							Wilt thou be made whole? The impotent man answered him, Sir, I have no man, when the
							water is troubled, to put me into the pool; 
							
								TOMBS OF THE KINGS.
							
							 but while I am coming, another steppeth down before me.
							Jesus saith unto him, Rise, take up thy bed, and walk. And immediately the man was
							made whole, and took up his bed, and walked."

						After paying our usual "backshish" we were admitted through a hallway to an open
							place where there was an opening in the earth with a winding stairway of more than
							forty stone steps, leading down to a pool of water. There below the surface of the
							earth could be seen a portion of what appeared to be ancient-looking porches, with the
							pool of water below. In another part of the city is a large open pool called the Pool
							of Jeremiah, which contains a very large supply of water for the city. As we were
							passing by another place, we saw the Jews making unleavened cakes, which were about
							eight inches wide and a quarter or a half an inch thick.

						There were many other places of interest within the city, but we will now notice some
							places without the city walls.
					

					

					

						THE TOMBS OF THE KINGS.

						AMONG the places of interest outside the walls of the city of
							Jerusalem is that of the Tombs of the Kings. They belong to the French, and are
							surrounded by a wall. There is a staircase hewn in the rock, consisting of twenty-four
							steps nine yards wide, which lead down into the tombs, or rather to a large open
							court, cut out of solid rock. There are channels cut in the rock to conduct the water
							into the great cisterns below. These channels cross the staircase at the tenth and
							twentieth steps, and lead down beside the wall to the right. At the foot of the
							staircase are to be seen the large cisterns.

						

						
							DAMASCUS GATE-- JERUSALEM.
						

						

						The open court is twenty-seven yards by thirty yards. At one end of this open court
							is an entrance to the tombs with some inscriptions and sculpture work above the
							entrance. The first chamber entered is about six and one-half yards square, and from
							it there are four entrances, which lead to tombed chambers. Some of these chambers
							contain rock shelves on three sides. Some have openings which lead through the
							chambers to where there are small openings down into another department below, where
							there are chambers for burying the dead, and these open to some still lower, which are
							entered by means of small openings in the rock sufficiently large for a person to
							climb in and out. These chambers, so far beneath the earth, cut out of solid rock, and
							used as burial-places, are something marvelous to behold. At the present time there
							are no signs of the bones of any one who has been buried there.
					

					

					

						SOLOMON'S QUARRIES.

						NOT far from the Damascus gate is an entrance to a large stone
							quarry. This is an extensive subterranean quarry, extending more than a mile in almost
							a straight line below the level of the city and underneath a part of the city on the
							outside of the walls. The stone is of a beautiful snowy white. Some claim that this is
							where Solomon obtained the stone for the temple, except that for the foundation and
							such as was necessary to bring from Tyre and other places. However, this is only a
							supposition; but as Josephus makes mention of the snowy whiteness of the temple, this
							stone would surely answer the description, for it is a beautiful white. On account of
							its softness, it can be cut into any shape with saws, and will harden, it is said,
							when exposed to the air.

						

						The amount of stone taken from this quarry would be almost enough to build a large
							city. On the sides of the wall are to be seen niches where the lamps of the quarrymen
							hung. The blocks were separated from the rock by means of wooden wedges which were
							driven in. Traces of the mode of working the quarry are still distinguishable.
							However, there is no positive clew as to the exact time of working of this quarry.
					

					

					

						MOUNT OF OLIVES.

						THE Mount of Olives, which is sometimes called Olivet, is a noted
							mountain on the range of hills east of Jerusalem, with the valley of the Kedron and
							Jehoshaphat between that and the city. It is not a single peak, but rather a ridge
							with three or four summits. Here was the place of the scene of some of the most
							striking occurrences in the life of Jesus. John 8:1; Acts 1:112; Luke 19: 29, 37; 21:
							37; 22:39; Mark 11:1; 13:3; 14:26; Mat. 21:1; 24:3; 26: 30.

						It was from this mountain near Bethany, that Jesus ascended into heaven. See Acts 1:
							12. It was here that Jesus used to take his disciples alone to commune with them, and
							where he often resorted as a place of prayer.

						It was upon this mountain that Solomon built the high places for the gods of his
							numerous wives, but these idolatrous places were destroyed by King Josiah. 1 Kings 11:
							7; 2 Kings 23: 13, 14. David fled to this place from Jerusalem to escape from Absalom.
							2 Sam. 15:30, 32; 16: 1.
					

					

					
						MOUNT OF OLIVES.
					

					

					

						THE GARDEN OF GETHSEMANE.

						THERE is probably not a more noted place round about Jerusalem, no
							place that the visitor has a greater desire to see, than the Garden of Gethsemane,
							where Jesus resorted in agonizing prayer to the Father while his disciples slept, and
							he bearing the burden of the sins of the world. This is the place of which the record
							is given by St. Matthew. "Then cometh Jesus with them unto a place called Gethsemane,
							and saith unto the disciples, Sit ye here, while I go and pray yonder. And he took
							with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, and began to be sorrowful and very heavy.
							Then saith he unto them, My soul is exceeding sorrowful, even unto death: tarry ye
							here,, and watch with me. And he went a little farther, and fell on his face, and
							prayed, saying, O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me:
							nevertheless not as I will, but as thou wilt. And he cometh unto the disciples, and
							findeth them asleep, and saith unto Peter, What, could ye not watch with me one hour?
							Watch and pray, that ye enter not into temptation: the spirit indeed is willing, but
							the flesh is weak. He went away again the second time, and prayed, saying, O my
							Father, if this cup may not pass away from me, except I drink it, thy will be done.
							And he came and found them asleep again: for their eyes were heavy. And he left them,
							and went away again, and prayed the third time, saying the same words. Then cometh he
							to his disciples, and saith unto them, Sleep on now, and take your rest: behold, the
							hour is at hand, and the Son of man is betrayed into the hands of sinners." Mat.
							26:36-45.

						Luke says: "And being in an agony he prayed more earnestly: and his sweat was as it
							were great drops of blood falling down to the ground. And when he rose up 
							
								THE GARDEN OF GETHSEMANE.
							
							 from prayer, and was come to his disciples, he found
							them sleeping for sorrow, and said unto them, Why sleep ye? rise and pray, lest ye
							enter into temptation. And while he yet spake, behold a multitude, and he that was
							called Judas, one of the twelve, went before them, and drew near unto Jesus to kiss
							him. But Jesus said unto him, Judas, betrayest thou the Son of man with a kiss?" Luke
							22: 44-48.

						The scenery of the Garden of Gethsemane of to-day is greatly changed from that of
							former times. At the present time there is a wall around what is called the Garden of
							Gethsemane. The wall is probably twelve or fourteen feet in height. The present garden
							is in the shape of an irregular rectangle, the circumference of which is about seventy
							paces.

						On the inside of the walls at regular intervals are stone-like posts, with pictures
							inside the walls representing fourteen stations, which the Catholics claim represent
							the fourteen places where Jesus stopped on the way from the garden to the place of his
							trial and crucifixion. Many traditional stories are told the travelers concerning
							these things by the guides and the monks in the place. While we were in the garden, we
							saw some monks and priests with a crowd of followers who were going and kneeling
							before each of these posts or stations. The priest or the monk would read from his
							prayer-book, they all kneeling round about, then go on to the next one until the
							fourteen places had been reached and prayer offered, and he well paid for his
							service.

						There is a walk a few feet wide around the entire garden just inside the walls for
							the purpose of viewing these pictures and also of seeing the middle part of the
							garden. In the central part are some very old olive-trees. The guides and those in
							charge of the garden say these 
							
								GETHSEMANE.
							
							 are the same trees that were there in the time of
							Christ; but such is not likely th:e case, for when the place was besieged by the
							Romans some time later, all the olive-groves were cut down. However, one tree near the
							ground measures about twenty-five feet in circumference, but a few feet above the
							ground it is only a few feet in circumference, and it is not very tall. Aside from the
							olive-trees there is nothing of much interest, except a few flowers. The keepers of
							the garden offer to furnish every one with a boquet of flowers, which they say is from
							the garden, for which they expect a very liberal "tip" by way of "backshish." They
							generally expect from ten to fifty cents or a dollar for their liberality of
							presenting the flowers.

						Just at the entrance of this garden the visitor is shown the spot where they say
							Judas betrayed the Master with a kiss, and near by is a large rock upon which they say
							the disciples slept while Christ was praying. There is scarcely a noted circumstance
							concerning Christ and his apostles but that the guides or Catholics point out what
							they call the exact place and the scene of such occurrence. One to get the -benefits
							of a visit to such places must needs be well-posted concerning the history and Bible
							narrations, so as not to be misled by these guides, keepers, and money-mongers. Though
							there is not much reliance to be placed upon the statements concerning the exact spots
							of many places, yet it is unquestionably evident that many of them are accurately
							located, while others are not.
					

					

					

						THE BROOK KEDRON.

						THIS brook pastes directly by Gethsemane at the foot of Mount
							Olivet. It is a small stream, dry in the summer, 
							
								OLD OLIVE TREE IN GETHSEMANE.
							
							 but during the rainy season the water sometimes passes
							down in torrents. It rises a mile and a half north of Jerusalem; extends in a
							southeasterly direction to the north-eastern quarter of the wall of the city; and
							sweeps through the valley Jehoshaphat in a deep gorge along the eastern side of the
							city. Its course continues through the wilderness of Judea until it reaches the
							northwestern shore of the Dead Sea.

						It is likely that at one time when Christ was coming down from Mount Olivet he was
							not far from the brook Kedron when he lifted up his eyes and beheld the city of
							Jerusalem, and said: "0 Jerusalem, Jerusalem, which killest the prophets, and stonest
							them that are sent unto thee; how often would I have gathered thy children together,
							as a hen doth gather her brood under her wings, and ye would not! Behold, your house
							is left unto you desolate: and verily I say unto you, Ye shall not see me, until the
							time come when ye shall say, Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord." Luke
							13: 24, 25.
					

					

					

						CALVARY.

						THERE are diversities of opinion concerning the exact location of
							Calvary. Some writers and explorers have located it within the city walls, where there
							is a place governed principally by Latin and Greek Catholics, who locate it at the
							Church of the Holy Sepulcher; while there are others who have located the site outside
							the city walls. It is evident from the reading of the following texts that Calvary was
							at some place outside the city walls: Mat. 27: 32; Heb. 13: 12; John 19: 20-44.

						Some years ago an explorer, Dr. Gordon, located the 
							
								THE GARDEN TOMB-- NEAR CALVARY.
							
							 spot outside the city not far from the old ash-heap.
							The elevation or top of the hill which he selected as the site is something the shape
							of a skull, which faces a deep precipice. Upon this hill is said to have been the
							stoning-place of the Jews, where people were taken to be stoned. According to the
							custom, he who brought the accusation had the privilege of casting the first stone as
							the victim stood at the very edge of the precipice; and when he was knocked into the
							abyss below, stones were hurled down upon him, thus ending his mortal existence. At
							the edge of this precipice near the top of this hill excavations were made. The hill
							is solid stone, except a thin soil on the top. Where the excavations were made, Dr.
							Gordon and other explorers found what they were satisfied were the crevices and cracks
							made by the earthquake which occurred at the time of the crucifixion. The top of this
							hill at the present time is occupied as a Mohammedan cemetery, and visitors in
							general, especially Christians, are not admitted. However, we had the privilege of
							visiting and examining the place to our satisfaction, and also of holding a little
							prayer-meeting on the brow of the hill.
					

					

					

						THE GARDEN TOMB.

						AFTER Jesus had been crucified, Matthew says, "When the even was
							come, there came a rich man of Arimatha, named Joseph, who also himself was Jesus'
							disciple. He went to Pilate, and begged the body of Jesus. Then Pilate commanded the
							body to be delivered. And when Joseph had taken the body, he wrapped it in a clean
							linen cloth, and laid it in his own new tomb, which he had hewn out in the rock: and
							he rolled a great stone to the door of the sepulcher, and departed."

						

						When Dr. Gordon became satisfied that he had really located Calvary, he believed that
							the sepulcher in which Christ was buried was not far away. A short distance from the
							place he began digging down and excavating at the side of a hill near by, or, in fact,
							an extension of the same hill, and finding a place which was perpendicular, he
							continued his excavations for several feet, until he came to a door that opened into
							the side of the solid rock. In this is a room about ten by fourteen feet and seven
							feet high, all cut out of the rock. Extending across near the middle of the room is an
							elevation of a few inches from the floor to distinguish the separation of the one
							chamber from the other. At the farther corner from the door is a white marble slab
							something near three feet wide, set on edge, of sufficient length to form a place for
							a man to be laid. In this place it is supposed Christ was laid. The tomb bears the
							marks and representation as being that of a rich man, as was Joseph of Arimatha. The
							bottom of this sepulcher is from ten to fifteen feet below the level of the surface of
							the ground in the garden in front of it, and far beneath the top of the hill above it.
							Considering the description given in the New Testament and historical facts concerning
							the same, to our mind this is more likely the real sepulcher and Calvary than any
							other place that has been selected.
					

					

					

						BETHANY.

						BETHANY is a little village about two miles east of Jerusalem on
							the road to Jericho. It was the home of Mary and Martha, where Jesus often went. He
							seemed to make it a kind of home, and no doubt spent much time with Lazarus, as this
							was the place where Lazarus was 
							
								THE GARDEN TOMB-- INTERIOR-- PLACE OF RESURRECTION.
							
							 raised from the dead. John 11:18-44. It was near here
							that Jesus ascended to heaven. Luke 24: 50. It is only a small place at the present
							time with a few stone houses inhabited by Mussulmans.
					

					

					

						ACELDAMA-- THE POTTER'S FIELD.

						ACELDAMA is what is known as the "field of blood," the potter's
							field purchased with the money that was given to Judas for betraying Jesus, as
							mentioned in Acts 1: 18, 19 and Mat. 27: 7. This place as now located is on the
							southern slope of the Valley of Hinnom, near the Pool of Siloam. This is a very
							desolate, solitary place, rough and rugged in the extreme. A few monks remain here in
							a kind of convent building, and show the people the tombs for the "backshish" given
							them according to the liberality of the visitor.

						It is a rocky field of stone, perforated with caves and underground tombs. Passing
							from the convent into a cave below, by means of lighted candles, are to be seen here
							and there shelf-like places in the sides of the room, which appear to have been there
							for ages. Openings from the first room or chamber lead into another chamber where
							there are similar places for burying, containing human bones. Then there is an opening
							into a lower department, and on down into another lower department, and thus chamber
							after chamber, department after department, underneath this hill or potter's field, as
							it were, are to be found many places for the burial of the dead.
					

					

					
						VILLAGE OF BETHANY, HOME OF MARY AND MARTHA.
					

					

					

						THE POOL OF SILOAM.

						THE Pool of Siloam is just outside the city of Jerusalem, at the
							foot of Mount Zion and Mount Moriah. There are two pools, or one is rather a
							reservoir. The other, the real pool, is fifty-three feet in length, eighteen feet
							wide, nineteen feet deep, and fourteen feet below the surface of the earth. There is a
							walk lea:ling around the edge of the rocky precipice to steps that lead down into the
							pool. Below is a small opening, from which water flows down towards the large pool or
							reservoir, the large one not being shown in the illustration given. At the present
							time the large one is empty, and is used for gardening purposes. It was used to hold
							water to supply the villages and gardens below until more recent years, when the cess
							water from the city, of Jerusalem passing through it made it so filthy that it was
							finally abandoned as a pool for special use of the water.

						It was to this place the blind man was sent to wash that his sight might be restored,
							according to the record given in John 9: 1-7: "And as Jesus passed by, he saw a man
							which was blind from his birth. And his disciples asked him saying, Master, who did
							sin, this man, or his parents, that he was born blind? Jesus answered, Neither hath
							this man sinned, nor his parents: but that the works of God should be made manifest in
							him. I must work the works of him that sent me, while it is day: the night cometh,
							when no man can work. As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the wold. When
							he had thus spoken, lie spat on the ground, and made clay of the spittle, and he
							anointed the eyes of the blind man with the clay. And said unto him, Go, wash in the
							pool of Siloam, (which is by interpretation, Sent). He went his way therefore, and
							washed, and came seeing."
					

					

					
						POOL OF SILOAM.
					

					

					

						SILOAM, THE LEPER TOWN.

						NOT far from the Pool of Siloam, outside of the city of Jerusalem,
							is a little village of perhaps fifty houses or more, known as the village of Siloam.
							It has only one street leading through it, and that a very rough and dirty-looking
							one. Traveling through this little village would not bring much of an inspiration, as
							might be imagined from the words of the song, "By cool Siloam's shady rill." Many of
							the houses are built out of ancient tombs, and some people live in holes cut in the
							rocky side of some hill, or at the edge of the rocky cliff.

						A portion of this town and another place near by are occupied by lepers. The traveler
							round about Jerusalem, and especially near the Garden of Gethsemane, and on the road
							that leads to Bethlehem or to the Dead Sea, will not fail to meet with lepers on every
							hand. As we were leaving the Garden of Gethsemane, we noticed a few lepers begging
							near the entrance. Having a few small pieces of money, a piece was dropped into their
							hands, cup, or pail. We found as we passed by that there were ten lepers in a row
							begging from all the travelers. Only a few rods farther were a few more crouched down
							beside the stone walls, and farther along were some more sitting in the dust, while
							others were upon rocks or leaning against the stone wall. All of them were begging for
							"backshish" (money). These lepers are a pitiable sight. Some of them have the ends of
							their fingers dropped off, and others probably all their fingers off, and some their
							thumbs. Others have no hands, while the toes of others are missing. Sometimes their
							feet, ears, noses, or some other part of their bodies is gone. Some are blind. These,
							from early in the morning until late in the evening, are to be found along the
							highways 
							
								VILLAGE OF SILOAM.
							
							 and entrances to the most noted thoroughfares for
							travelers. As soon as they see or hear some one coming, they begin the pitiable
							moaning, wailing, and begging of alms. They are generally clad in rags and filthy
							garments. While the government provides a place and a certain amount for their
							support, yet they have learned to beg, and no doubt were they furnished with an
							abundance of food, clothing and other necessaries of life to-day, to-morrow they would
							be clad in their old garments, and found along the wayside begging. They can not speak
							the English language, therefore we were unable to converse with them. There seems to
							be no effort or restrictions to keep them away from the public further than that they
							generally stay at the side of the walk or driveway, but within easy reach of the
							passers-by.

						Leprosy was a disease of frequent occurrence among the Israelites. It is said there
							are now about fifty lepers in Jerusalem. Leprosy results from a kind of decomposition
							of the blood. Several months before the outbreak of the disease the patient feels
							languid, suffers from chills, suffers in the limbs, with attacks of fever; reddish
							spots then make their appearance on the skin, and under them rise dark-red lumps,
							which are more or less moveable in the body. These l amps unite into groups resembling
							bunches of grapes. The mouth and lips swell and the eyes run, and the patient is
							frequently tormented with attacks of itching over the whole body. The mucous membrane
							begins to be destroyed, and nodules from internally also. The organs of speech,
							hearing, and sight become affected. Generally the swelling bursts, and turns into
							dreadful festering sores; heals up again, but only to break out at a different place.
							The fingers become bent, and some of the limbs begin to rot away. This kind of leprosy
							with its accompanying swellings  differs from the smooth
							leprosy, which produces flat, painful, inflamed patches on the skin, followed by
							sores. Other diseases are frequently brought on by leprosy, but the patient sometimes
							drags on his melancholy existence twenty years or more. There is one kind of leprosy,
							which we saw at another place, where it was not noticeable upon those who were
							afflicted while in its first stages to cause them any inconvenience; but they had
							spots as white as snow in various places on their hands, feet, face, and other parts
							of their bodies. However, this develops in many cases into serious trouble and
							affliction.
					

					

					

						THE ASH-HEAP.

						JUST outside the walls of the present city of Jerusalem is a place
							known as the "ash-heap." This is said to be the place where for centuries the ashes
							from the place where the sacrifices were burned were taken and piled upon a heap. In
							conversation with some of the inhabitants of Jerusalem with whom we were acquainted,
							we were told that a few Years ago when they came to Jerusalem the ash-heap, was about
							twenty feet higher than it is now, and others who came earlier stated that it was
							forty feet higher. The ashes have been used for plaster, cement, and building
							purposes.

						Ashes from this heap have been sent to other countries and scientifically and
							chemically examined, and said to consist of ashes from the bones of animals:. When we
							read in the Old Testament of the number of animals sacrificed in Jerusalem and burned
							upon the altar, it does not require much imagination to believe that there would be a
							special ash-heap of great magnitude, and that it would require centuries to dispose of
							the same, as the ashes of that heap to-day are being used.
					

					

					
						BETHLEHEM.
					

					

					

						BETHLEHEM.

						BETHLEHEM is a town about six miles south of Jerusalem. Because of
							its famous birth-place of Christ and other notable events of ancient times, it is
							unnecessary to give here any further history of what took place in those days. The
							city has been destroyed and rebuilt at different times since the days of Christ. There
							is, however, a building called the Church of the Nativity which is said to be the
							oldest in Christendom, built in A. D. 330 by the Empress Helena. It is said to be
							built over the place where Christ was born. Like the Holy Sepulcher in Jerusalem,
							there are many traditional stories and superstitious ideas regarding this place and
							the things connected therewith. The building is divided into three departments, one of
							which is occupied or governed by the Armenians; the other two by the Greek and the
							Latin Catholics. The time of our visit to this place was a special time of worship and
							a day highly revered on account of some ancient traditional circumstances, and the
							pilgrims had gathered together from far and near to give special reverence in their
							worship of the image of the cross, similar to what we found in Rome. Here we found the
							same idolatrous worship.

						The pilgrims entered t:e ground floor of the building, where services were being
							conducted by the priests and monks, which was nothing more than a mere form of
							operations, and now and then a few words said with many formal performances. Near the
							end of the room, to one side, was an entrance to a staircase leading down to the
							chapel below. Near this stairway were the shoes of those who went down into the
							chapel, as they considered it a holy place. The place above and below is illuminated
							with candles.

						As we descended the stairway and entered the long 
							
								MARKET PLACE IN BETHLEHEM.
							
							 narrow chapel below, to our right was a place
							representing the manger, made of marble, in an inclosure with a few steps leading to
							it. In this marble manger was a wax doll representing the infant Christ. In this
							building were also the Virgin Mary, the crucifix, and other images for worship.

						The pilgrims would go to the back end of the hall, and there women and men would
							stretch themselves out prostrate on the stone floor face downward. After lying there a
							short time and kissing the floor, they would arise, and move forward with their feet
							to the place where their heads were before, and upon their knees would bow, striking
							their heads against the floor, and then move forward to where their heads were before
							and strike the floor, and continue this until they reached the steps which led up to
							the platform where the manger and other images of worship were placed. They would kiss
							the steps and after going through divers performances and doing obeisance to the wax
							doll and other images, would pass on for those who were coming behind to also
							participate in the same formal worship.

						Passing on from place to place through the city, we were told some of the most
							ludicrous and ridiculous stories by which tradition had made the various places
							famous. Some of these were too ridiculous to mention.

						The plain of the shepherds' field is about a mile from the town. The country round
							al:out is very rocky, and has a desolate appearance.
					

					

					

						SOLOMON'S POOLS.

						THE noted Pools of Solomon are beyond Bethlehem, and about
							thirteen miles from the city of Jerusalem. They are said to be the pools built by
							Solomon, and served for the water supply of Jerusalem. There are ruin aqueducts, or
								
							
								CHRISTMAS DAY IN BETHLEHEM.
							
							 underground water courses, which conveyed the water
							from those pools to the city of Jerusalem, which give evidence that they were used for
							that purpose. Below the surface of the earth at the present time in places are to be
							seen portions of these aqueducts. At one place at the city walls these aqueducts are
							to be seen also.

						These pools furnish the water for Bethlehem at the present time. There are large
							tanks which rise one above the other, and are cut from solid rock and walled with
							masonry. The size of the largest, or lowest, basin is five hundred and eighty-two by
							one hundred and seventy-five feet, and fifty feet in depth; the middle pool four
							hundred and thirty-three by two hundred and thirty by thirty-nine feet; the upper
							three hundred and eighty by two hundred and thirty by twenty-five feet. These were fed
							by wells and springs in the mountain and an underground fountain, which furnished an
							abundance of water for the tank. This is regarded as "the sealed fountain, or spring
							shut up," which is probably the one referred to by Solomon in giving an illustration
							concerning spiritual matters. The water from these pools was conducted to the city of
							Jerusalem, where it was deposited in pools and cisterns for the supply of the city,
							and doubtless the overflow passed on into the pools below the city.

						There are to-day a number of pools not only within the walls of the city, but also
							outside near by in the villages. At the edge of the city are places for pools and
							reservoirs, where much water could be deposited and held in reserve. The idea that
							there was no water in or around Jerusalem in which to baptize the three thousand
							people is a very flimsy objection to baptism by immersion; for in a number of those
							large pools and reservoirs hundreds of people could enter at one time if
							necessary.
					

					

					
						GENERAL VIEW OF POOLS OF SOLOMON.
					

					

					

						THE DEAD SEA.

						As we were desirous of visiting the Dead Sea and the river Jordan, our guide procured
							a carriage for our company, including himself, at a cost of three napoleons to make
							the trip in one day. As our time was very limited, we had only one day for that
							purpose. The guide told us that most travelers took three days for the journey: the
							first day for the journey to the place, one day in visiting, and the third day to
							return. The driver said he could make the trip in two days, but did not like to
							undertake it in one day. Finally he concluded, for the price, to hitch three horses to
							the carriage and make the trip.

						At daybreak the next morning we left Hotel Jerusalem, which is situated just outside
							the walls of the city, and were soon on our way, passing Bethany and near by the old
							site of Bethphage, on and on, winding about the hills and over barren country until we
							came to a place called the Good Samaritan's Inn. This is on the road to Jericho,
							doubtless the same old road of ancient times noted for its robbers and thieves. The
							Good Samaritan's Inn is a modern inn, consisting of a compound, with the walls
							connecting to the ends and sides of a building. At this building travelers can stop
							and remain for the night, or procure some refreshments, such as they are, and can put
							their horses and other animals in the compound and feed them, ready for the
							continuation of the journey. Along this place on one side are some small holes or
							caves consisting of large room-like places called the "robbers' dens." Farther on at a
							point in the turn of the road is another such place, making it convenient for bands of
							robbers to signal to each other from either of those places concerning any travelers
							who may be coming or going.

						

						
							GOOD SAMARITAN'S INN-- ON THE ROAD TO JERICO.
						

						

						While we stopped here, the sisters, being tired of riding, walked on, and soon passed
							by the robbers' den and were out of sight. As soon as the guide was aware of the fact,
							he became very anxious, and said they were in imminent danger of being kidnapped and
							carried over the hills as were other lady missionaries a few years ago by the Turkish
							and Bulgarian people. He had me to accompany him, and urged that we make great haste
							to overtake them. However, no harm befell them along the way.

						We soon reached a high point of land where the remainder of the way was almost
							constantly down grade, and in many places very steep until we were nearing the valley
							of the Jordan and the sea. A place was pointed out to us near by among the rocks in a
							deep ravine where it was said that Elijah was fed by the ravens. Among the rocks were
							caves which were also said to be a place of seclusion for thieves and robbers.

						A little after noon we arrived at the Dead Sea, where an hour or two was spent at the
							water's edge. On account of our limited tire, we were not able to cross to the other
							side. This sea is sometimes called "Salt Sea," "the Sea of the Plain," and ancient
							historians have denominated it "the Sodomitish Sea," "the Sea of Sodom," "the
							Sodomitic Lake," etc. The Arabs call it the "Lake of Lot." It is situated sixteen
							miles from Jerusalem on a straight line, hut many miles farther by the carriage road.
							It is about forty-six miles in length, ten miles in width, and covers an area of three
							hundred square miles. The water is quite clear, but contains much salt, insomuch that
							a person thrown out into the water will not sink, and can sit down in the water or
							float on his back or in any way he pleases. There is, however, a liability of the head
							going down and the feet up. At the southern end for two or three miles 
							
								THE DEAD SEA.
							
							the shore is comparatively level, while on other sides
							it is mountainous, and at one place a promontory extends out into the lake, and is
							described as being a plat of soft marl, encrusted with salt, and containing large
							quantities of sulphur in a very pure form.

						It is supposed that the Dead Sea is the location of the city of Sodom, from which Lot
							made his escape before its destruction, and his wife looking back was turned into a
							pillar of salt. People who have visited the Dead Sea are asked if this pillar of salt
							is to be seen. There is nothing that would give any one a recognition of anything
							representing a human being made of salt. On this island-like place extending into the
							water are some elevated places, and along the shore is a place called "Salt
							Mountain."

						The river Jordan flows into this sea, and it is estimated that six million tons of
							water fall into the Dead Sea daily, all of which must be carried off by evaporation,
							as the sea has no outlet. Near the shore of the sea are elevated places or small hills
							which are pointed out as the location of the site of the ancient city of Gomorrah.
							However, this is only conjecture. Round about this sea the climate is very warm, as it
							is 3,697 feet below Jerusalem, and surrounded by hills and mountains, and, except the
							reeds and canebrakes clustered along the marshy streams, and a few trees, there is but
							little vegetation. Soon we were again on our way in the valley of the Jordan.
					

					

					

						THE RIVER JORDAN.

						AFTER traveling a few miles from the Dead Sea we came to a bend in
							the river Jordan, where we stopped to spend a little time in viewing that noted
							stream. This has also been the place of many noted scenes of ancient days and 
							
								THE RIVER JORDAN.
							
							 manifestations of the power of God. It was near this
							place where the power of God was manifested by the parting of the waters so that the
							children of Israel could pass over into Canaan, and where Elisha smote the waters with
							his garments and passed over, also near the place where John was baptizing in Jordan
							and the people of Jerusalem and Judea came. It was at that time Jesus came and was
							baptized by John, when the dove descended upon him, and God said, "This is my beloved
							Son, in whom I am well pleased."

						At the time when we were there the Jordan was not overflowing its banks, and the
							stream is not a wide one except during the time of the overflowing. However, it is
							deep, and near the Dead Sea very muddy and has a miry bottom; and at the place which
							we visited were reeds, canebrakes, groves of small trees, and tall weeds. While we
							were there, the man who came to us at Shechem to get saved at that place, now
							requested us to baptize him in the river Jordan. Remembering the commandment of Jesus
							to go into all nations, teaching the gospel and baptizing them in the name of the
							Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost, and this man claiming to have fully repented
							and given up his sins, and there seeming to be a radical change in his life, we obeyed
							the Word, and there in the presence of our little company be was immersed in the
							waters of the Jordan.

						As the afternoon was rapidly fading away, it was now time for us to speed onward. We
							soon passed the modern village of Jericho, and some distance away were pointed out
							some ancient ruins, which were said to be those of the old city of Jericho. From here
							we soon arrived at the foot of the mountain, where there was to be a continual ascent
							almost the entire remainder of our journey. The horses, however, began to balk. The
							driver after making several 
							
								MODERN JERICHO.
							
							 attempts and going a short distance at a time,
							determined to turn back and remain at Jericho until the next day. Had it not been that
							we still had possession of the money he was to receive, he would have turned back; but
							we were almost obliged to reach Jerusalem that night. Most of us walked the greater
							part of the way up the mountains. Sometimes all of us walked, and yet the horses would
							balk with the empty carriage.

						After stopping several times to feed and change the horses, sometimes putting one in
							the middle, sometimes another, we finally reached the summit after night. It was some
							time after dark that, while passing through Bethany, our carriage was stopped. We were
							on the inside, with the curtains closed. The guide was riding on the seat with the
							driver, and after waiting for some time he came hurriedly to the carriage and asked me
							to get out and come there quickly. Upon doing so I found a man at the horses' heads,
							and he and the driver having a heated conversation in the Arabic language. When we
							approached, coming up facing him, he quickly left for the other side of tile street.
							What his intentions were we do not know, but remembering that we were still on the
							Jericho road, we knew something of the dangers, and suspected him to be a robber.
							However, no one was harmed. Late at night we arrived at Hotel Jerusalem, where our
							journey was ended.
					

					

					

						THE AMERICAN COLONY.

						OUTSIDE the walls of the city of Jerusalem, near the outskirts of
							the city, is what is known as the American Colony, which consists of about one hundred
							and twenty-five men, women, and children. These people have a few 
							
								VIEW OF ANCIENT JERICHO.
							
							 buildings. In one of the largest is their place of
							worship, boarding-house, and other arrangements for them to live as one family. They
							have one common table, and informed us that all were supplied from one purse, having
							"all things common." Some of these people have been there for more than twenty years.
							Somewhere near the year 1894 or 1895 about seventy persons left Chicago for Palestine
							to meet with some of their brethren in Palestine, forming this company known as the
							American Colony. They claim that their intentions are to live in Jerusalem and study
							the Bible in a literal sense by comparing its teachings with the natural surroundings
							of the country. They claim that their principal teachings are the golden rule and
							"love your neighbor as yourself," etc.

						They have a store in the main city of Jerusalem for selling curios made of olive
							wood, and photographs of the land of Palestine. From this store considerable money is
							made by selling these curios for relics from the Holy Land to visitors from other
							countries. We were informed that for a few years they did not believe in their members
							marrying; but recently they have changed their views on that line, and some are being
							married.

						Having been acquainted with two or three of this colony before they left America, we
							desired to meet them. Not knowing the name of the colony to which they belonged, nor
							the location of their home, and in fact, not knowing whether they were living in
							Jerusalem, we were at a loss to know how to find them. We were also requested by
							Brother and Sister Pollock, who were formerly of Moundsville, to make inquiry
							concerning his father, who went to Jerusalem with this colony and soon afterwards
							died. They were anxious to know some of the particulars of his death and burial. Some
							one had also requested Brother Bailey  to gain some
							information concerning another man. At first we were unable to find any clew to any of
							these persons. One day as we were walking along one of the main streets of Jerusalem
							we came near three curio stores side by side. All three of them had about the same
							appearance. Some of the company were about to enter the first one, but some way I felt
							a particular inclination to go into the second one, and made a remark to that end.
							After we had been in this store for some time, Brother Bailey made some inquiry
							concerning the one for whom information had been requested, and the keeper of the
							store gave him the desired information. Soon after this while in conversation with the
							proprietor, I asked him if he knew of a Mr. Levy and Beaumont, to which he replied
							that he did.

						"Do they live in Jerusalem?"

						"Yes, sir," he replied.

						"Can you give me any information concerning them?"

						"Yes, sir, I can give you considerable information."

						"You are acquainted with them, then?"

						"Yes, sir."

						"When did you last see them?"

						"I saw them this morning. They live in the same home with me."

						"Can I arrange to meet them?"

						"Yes, sir. We shall be pleased to have you call at their home at the American Colony
							in the outskirts of the city."

						"Did you know a man by the name of James Pollock, formerly of Denver, Colorado?"

						"Yes, sir."

						"He is dead, I understand?"

						"Yes, sir. He died several years ago."

						"Do you know anything about the particulars of his death?"

						

						
							CEMETERY-- DAMASCUS
						

						

						"Yes, sir. I was at his bedside when he passed away."

						"Was there anything special concerning his last hours?"

						"Nothing special. He seemed to die peaceably after having been afflicted a few
							days."

						"And where was he buried?"

						"He was buried in the cemetery of the German Colony, about two and one-half miles
							distant."

						"Do you have religious services at your Colony?"

						"Yes, sir; to-morrow is Sunday, and we have our regular services in the forenoon and
							afternoon, and would be pleased to have you attend the same."

						Next day in the afternoon, according to the invitation, three of us visited the
							American Colony, and attended their services, which consisted of reading from the
							prophecies and some from the New Testament, after which a few remarks were made by one
							of their number. Although they seemed to be very sincere in their belief and worship,
							yet we could not say that there were any signs of real spiritual life, and I do not
							think they make any profession of having a change of heart by a real spiritual
							birth.
					

					

					

						RELIGIOUS CONDITIONS OF PALESTINE.

						THE principal religions of Palestine are those of the Mohammedans,
							Jews, and Christians. The Mussulmans (Mohammedans) form about three-fourth of the
							population of Syria. They still regard themselves as the possessors of the special
							favor of God, and as rulers of the world, preferred by the Lord to all other nations.
							Those who are called Christians are principally the Greek and the Latin Catholics. The
							Latins are known as Raman Catholics. Then, there are the Armenian Catholics and the
							Coptic Catholics. 
							
								FRANCESCAN MONKS-- LATINS.
							
							 There are also a few Protestants. These Catholic
							Christians almost all, while they believe in God and in Christ, worship the image
							instead of the Lord himself.

						The real headquarters of the Protestants in Syria is at Beyrout, where there is what
							is known as the American College, a religious institution. In and about Jerusalem are
							a few Protestant missionary stations and missions of various kinds, but comparatively
							little is being done by them. Generally speaking, the religious condition of the Holy
							Land is in a sad plight. Their worship is nearly all form. They seem to have drifted
							to almost the furthest extreme from the simple teachings of Jesus Christ, and there is
							but little of his power manifested among those who claim to be his followers.

						The Jews, Mohammedans, and so-called Christians are said to be at almost sword's
							point with each other. The existing prejudices between those of different religious
							beliefs, and their different nationalities, mariners, and customs, languages, mixed
							with their various traditional beliefs and superstitions, make a very difficult field
							for prommulgating the pure gospel of Jesus Christ.

						Traveling over what is known as the Holy Land, and round about what is called the
							Holy City, vividly brings to the mind the fact that truly the country has had the
							curse of God upon it. Even the land itself, which in many places was once fertile and
							productive, now seems only a barren waste; and the people seem to know but little
							about the improvements and practical ways of farming, tilling the soil, and making use
							of modern inventions. The Mohammedans and many of the other natives of the Holy Land
							reject Christ; the Jews reject him, and most of the so-called Christians worship his
							image and the image of the Virgin Mary; consequently it is a God-forsaken country. In
							our 
							
								MOSLEM SHEIKS AND EFFENDIS.
							
							 travels in the various countries we found the lack of
							civilization and modern improvements accordingly as they rejected Christ.

						Our stay in and about Jerusalem being of short duration, we did not have the
							privilege of attending religious services in many places among the Protestant
							Christians. Aside from our visit to the American Colony on Sunday, we also attended
							the services of a Christian Alliance Mission. Here we were permitted to present the
							gospel, which was interpreted into the Arabic to those who could not understand the
							English. These people believe in divine healing and sanctification, and therefore we
							had the liberty of presenting considerable of the Word of God without any
							objection.

						During the day we also visited a mission home that was conducted by a few European
							women, mostly from England. Also, we had previously met two or three men who had been
							connected with this home for a few years. The mission was carried on rather on an
							independent line by the members of different denominations. They would keep Saturday
							as the sabbath. Their principal belief was to crucify the flesh in order to gain
							higher spiritual attainments. This had been propagated and carried out through the
							orders of one of the men. He had charge of the home for about four years. We had met
							this man previous to this time, as the reader will probably remember was heretofore
							mentioned. The night that we were at Jenin, on our way to Jerusalem, when three of us
							one night dreamed of murder, this man was sleeping in the same room. We had not then
							learned of his wickedness and fanatical ideas.

						Upon our visit to this home we were cordially received by the women who. were then in
							charge of it. While they were entertaining us, we were shown some photographs, 
							
								JEWS OF JERUSALEM.
							
							 and recognized the face of this man heretofore
							mentioned. Learning that we had met him, they began to talk quite freely concerning
							him and his work. We found him to be one of the most extreme fanatics that we had met
							for some time, and he seemed to have a wonderful power and influence over every one in
							the home. Thy believed his teaching, and feared to disobey him. There were six women
							who belonged to the home and posed as religious teachers. A, part of the time two or
							three men made that their home.

						Among the many fanatical ideas and things propagated by this man was that all things
							that they hated most or dreaded to do was what they must do. For instance, if they
							were not feeling well, they must work very hard at the,most drudging work that could
							be found. If they came to the table and had no appetite, he would fill their plates
							heaping full of meat and other solid food, and such like, and would require them to
							eat it all. Were they to come to the table hungry, they were allowed but a very small
							amount of food. Whatever he desired of them, they were under obligations to obey.

						He finally became almost wild in his aspirations and fanaticism, and at one time when
							there was some opposition by one of the women, he bit her little finger almost off,
							which at the time of our visit she had bandaged. About three weeks before this he
							became so enraged and wild that he entered the room where they were sitting at the
							table, locked the door, and took a very large knife and cut the clothing of three
							women from head to foot, and tore the same from their bodies. They seeing that he was
							at a point of insanity dared not resist, and it was some time before one of them could
							make an escape and secure the help of another man, who bound him to the bed with
							ropes. While there the women heard him give orders to his friend to kill  all six of the women. Three of them were to be killed in
							one room, and three of them on the porch. The man to whom he gave this order was so
							under his power that lie intended to carry out the request. One of the women made her
							escape to the German Consul, who took charge of the affair, and the man was allowed to
							escape. After learning these things we were not surprised that we dreamed of murder
							while sleeping in the presence of this man in Jenin.
					

					

					

						SOME CUSTOMS AMONG THE MOHAMMEDANS.


						IN many ways the customs of the Mohammedans are much like those of
							the Jews. Most people in and about Jerusalem wear turban caps. We were informed that
							among the Mohammedans circumcision is performed on boys up to six or seven years of
							age or even later, the ceremony being attended with great pomp. The child is conducted
							through the streets on a handsomely decorated horse. The boy generally wears a turban
							of red cashmere, and is sometimes dressed in girls' clothes, with conspicuous
							ornaments, his face about half covered with an embroidered handkerchief. A noisy troop
							of musicians head the procession.

						Girls are generally married about the age of twelve or thirteen, sometimes as early
							as ten years of age. The man in search of a bride employs the services of a relative,
							or of women whose profession it is to arrange marriages, and he never has an
							opportunity of seeing his bride until the wedding-day, except when the parties belong
							to the lower classes. When everything is arranged, the bridegroom has to pay purchase
							money, which is higher if the lady is a spinster than it is if she is a widow.
							Generally  speaking, about two-thirds of the sum, the
							amount of which always forms a subject of lively discussion, is paid down, while
							one-third is settled on the wife, being payable on the death of the husband or on his
							divorcing her against her will. The marriage contract is now complete. Before the
							wedding the bride is conducted in gala attire and with great ceremony to the bath.
							This procession is headed by musicians with drums and other instruments, and they are
							followed by several of the bride's married friends and relatives in pairs, and after
							these come a number of young girls. The bride is entirely concealed by the clothing
							she wears, being usually enveloped from head to foot in a cashmere shawl, and wearing
							on her head a small cap or crown of pasteboard. Another company of musicians brings up
							the rear. The procession moves very slowly. The bride is afterwards conducted with the
							same formalities to the house of her husband.

						The ceremonies observed at funerals are not less remarkable than those which attend
							weddings. If the death occurs in the morning, the funeral takes place the same day;
							but if in the evening, the funeral is postponed until the next day. The body is washed
							an l mourned over by the family and the professional mourning-women. The schoolmaster
							reads by its side several portions of the Koran. The ears and nostrils of the deceased
							are filled with cotton. The body is then enveloped in its white or green
							winding-sheet, and is at length carried forth in solemn procession. The foremost
							persons in the procession are usually six or more poor, and, generally, blind men, who
							chant the creed, "There is no god but God. Mohammed is the ambassador of God. God be
							gracious to him and preserve him." The bier with the deceased enveloped in a
							winding-sheet is borne by friends. After the bier, come the female relatives with 
							
								BETHLEHEM WOMEN AT HOME.
							
							 disheveled hair, sobbing loudly and frequently,
							accompanied by the professional mourning-women, whose business it is to extol the
							merits of the deceased. The body is first carried into the mosque, and prayers are
							there offered on its behalf. The procession then moves towards the cemetery, where the
							body is interred in such a position that its head is turned towards Mecca.

						Another peculiar custom of the Mohammedans is that the separation of the sexes is as
							strict after dealt as during life. In family vaults one side is set apart for the men
							and the other for women exclusively. Between these vaults is the entrance of the tomb,
							which is usual covered with a single large slab. The vaults are high enough to admit
							of the deceased sitting upright in them when he is being examined by the angels Munkar
							and Nekir on the first night after his interment, for according to the belief of the
							Mussulnmans the soul of the departed remains with his body for a night after his
							burial.
					

					

					

						JAFFA-- JOPPA.

						JAFFA, which is also in these modern tines called Yafa, in ancient
							times was called Joppa. This is a city of several thousand inhabitants, about fifty
							miles from Jerusalem by railroad, but much nearer on a straight line. In passing from
							Jerusalem to Jaffa, we passed through some rich farming country, and near the city are
							some beautiful orange-groves and other kinds of fruit.

						It was here where Tabitha was brought to life through the instrumentality of Peter,
							as mentioned in Acts 9:36-43. It was the place of the home of Simon the tanner, and
							where Peter was upon the housetop praying when in a vision he saw the sheet let down
							from heaven. The Lord in this way 
							
								THROUGH THE ROCKS-- JAFFA.
							
							
							
								HOUSE OF SIMON THE TANNER-- JOPPA.
							
							 revealed to him that he was no longer to call the
							Gentiles unclean, as the Master had already commanded him to go into all nations and
							preach the gospel, and said that whosoever believed and was baptized should be saved,
							and he that believed not should be damned.

						The houses are very closely crowded together, and the streets are narrow, crooked,
							dirty, and ill-managed. We were conducted to a place which was pointed out as having
							been the home of Simon the tanner, and we were taken up a flight of stairs to the top
							of a house which was said to be the house upon which Peter was praying when he saw the
							vision. Of course, this is only a supposition. The house has unquestionably been
							destroyed, and even though it may possibly be the exact spot, another house has been
							erected upon the remains of the former one. However, people visit the place, and many
							go away believing that they have stood upon the exact place where Peter was when he
							prayed.

						It was this seaport where the wood was brought from Lebanon for the building of
							Solomon's temple, or house of the Lord, which was built after the captivity. See 2
							Chron. 2:16. Cedars were brought from Lebanon to Joppa. See Ezra 3:7. It was at this
							port also that Jonah took ship for Tarshish. Jonah 1:3.

						The harbor of this place is a very dangerous one to enter on account of the rocks,
							and the ships anchor about half a mile from the shore, and all passengers and baggage
							must be brought on rowboats to the shore. If the sea is very rough, passengers can not
							be ]a led, but must go to some city or seaport farther along the coast. The boatmen in
							rowing to and from the ships have a kind of singsong expression spoken in the Arabic
							language which they continue to repeat over and over, every time they draw their oars.
							After looking about this city for a short time we entered one of the rowboats and were
							soon on board the ship, ready to say farewell to the land of Palestine,
					

					

					
						THE HARBOR OF JAFFA-- JOPPA.
					

					

					

						A SAND-STORM ON THE DESERT.

						IT was late in the afternoon when we left Jaffa and before break
							of day next morning we were again at Port Said, Egypt, where we arrived in time to go
							aboard the ship for Bombay, India, which was to start shortly after noon. After making
							all arrangements and going aboard, we all felt encouraged to know that we had made our
							tour through the Holy Land safely and successfully, and were soon to be on the way to
							India. We were now at the mouth of the Suez Canal, which is about one hundred miles in
							length, and which connects the Mediterranean and the Red Sea.

						When we were about ready to start, there came a severe sand-storm on the desert. We
							were in the city near the shore, and the houses gave us some protection. The air was
							so filled with sand that we could scarcely see. It became almost dark, as the sun was
							hid by clouds of sand. This continued for three or fur hours. As soon as it had
							subsided the cable was loosed, and we were soon sailing once more.

						The first part of our journey was through the Suez Canal for a distance of about one
							hundred miles. The canal is from two hundred to three hundred feet in width, extending
							through a barren, desert land. It requires from fifteen to eighteen hours to make this
							voyage, as the government will not allow a vessel t travel over about six miles an
							hour in the anal, and the vessel must be piloted through by a government officer.
					

					

					

						THE RED SEA.

						AFTER passing out of the canal we came into the Red Sea, where we
							had about thirteen hundred miles of smooth 
							
								SUEZ CANAL BETWEEN MEDITERRANEAN AND RED SEAS.
							
							 sailing before reaching Aden, Arabia, in the Gulf of
							Aden. We had not gone far after coming into the Red Sea until we were reminded we were
							passing the place where the children of Israel crossed over when fleeing from Pharaoh.
							To our right was Egypt, whose shores were lined with barren mountains; while on the
							left was the wilderness waste of land without vegetation. As we continued our voyage,
							in the distance was the dim outline of Mount Sinai, where the law was given to Moses
							on two tables of stone. To witness this scene would not require much imagination to
							realize the necessity of having a firm trust in the Lord in order to be supplied with
							food in such a desert country. But it was here that God sent down the manna from
							heaven from day to day in sufficient amount to supply them with the necessary food. As
							these places came before our vision, they brought remembrances of past events, of the
							manifestations and the power of God when the children of Israel were obedient, and of
							his judgments when they were disobedient. It is true at the present time that
							obedience to the Word of God will bring about the manifestation of his power for good,
							and disobedience will call forth his judgments.

						We continued our voyage on the sea until land could be seen on neither side. We had
							now lost sight of the lands noted because of their historical events of centuries ago,
							where the people of God wandered in bondage and captivity, the places of their
							deliverance, and battles, and victories over their enemies.

						Upon our arrival at Aden, Arabia, soon after dark, we learned that we were to be
							transferred from the steamship Marmora to the steamship Orient bound
							for Bombay, India. At this place we did not land, but after being hurriedly,
							transferred we were soon on our way eastward.

						

						The next day we struck the monsoons, which lasted about one day and night. Our vessel
							being a large one, these winds did not affect the sailing to any great extent. Some
							time during the night our vessel was struck by the monsoon. There being two port-holes
							in the side of our ship from our cabin, it was not long until the water from the waves
							came rushing in through these holes. As Brother Khan and I slept near the port-holes,
							the water came rushing in upon our cots, especially on the lower one, and we had to
							move to the cots at the other side of the room, as our cabin was very large, having
							four beds. Half asleep, we removed to the other beds. Soon one dash of water after
							another came in until we could hear the water rush back and forth on our floor.
							Finally a heavy sea sent the water clear across to the other end of the room upon our
							bed, thoroughly awakening us. About this time the porter came in and shut the
							port-holes, and took up the water that had accumulated in our room. The water thus
							issuing through the port-holes did not frighten us, as we had thus far on our journey
							sailed for many thousand miles, and had become somewhat accustomed to heavy seas, and
							the tossing about of the angry waves.

						For several days the thermometer in our cabins registered eighty degrees Fahrenheit
							day and night. Our time was passed in talking to passengers, reading and studying the
							Bible, writing, singing, and praying. Around us on every side was water, with now and
							then a vessel in sight, and but little else to break the monotony of the scene, except
							little flying-fishes gliding along above the water, having almost the exact appearance
							of birds; but also occasionally there were shoals of porpoises, a large kind of fish,
							leaping several feet above the water, seeming to enjoy the sport. On the morning of
							April the ninth we arrived at the harbor of Bombay.
					
				

				

					

					INDIA.

					

						ARRIVAL AT COMBAY, INDIA.

						BOMBAY is one of the largest cities of India, situated near the
							center of the western coast. Shortly before our arrival in the harbor, while reading a
							paper, I saw a notice concerning the plague in India. The paper stated that during the
							previous week in the Punjab district in northwestern India over thirty-four thousand
							people had died with the plague, and that both plague and cholera were raging in
							various parts of India. This appeared very much as if we were going into a very
							dangerous place, but we remembered that God had ordered our going and that the
							Psalmist says the steps of the righteous man are ordered of the Lord. Knowing that we
							moved at his direction we did not fear to enter the land. His protection had been with
							us in every land through which we had passed up to that time, despite the discouraging
							reports we had heard.

						Just before leaving America we were told that the Atlantic Ocean and the
							Mediterranean Sea were in a peculiar state of commotion, and that it was a phenomenon
							which puzzled scientists in giving an explanation, also that there was almost always
							sure to be a storm period beginning the 25th of January. As we were to start from New
							York on the 23rd of January, we knew we should be on the ocean during that period. We
							came in contact with the storm about that time, but were brought safely through. Soon
							after, while we were on the Bay of Biscay on our way to Africa, some passengers
							informed us that it was very unsafe to go to Africa at that time, as we were risking
							our lives by doing so, for the country was in a state of unrest and turmoil because of
							both internal and external troubles, and  insurrections
							were liable to break out anywhere and at any time. Upon our arrival we found such to
							be the case, but remained the full extent of our time, and accomplished what we felt
							the Lord desired us to do, without any harm befalling us. Our next news, while on our
							way to Egypt, was that a plague had broken out in Egypt; but this did not change our
							plans. Then came the news that war had broken out between Russia and Japan, and we
							were booked to take a Russian vessel to Palestine. When we were about ready to start,
							we learned that Palestine was quarantined against the plague in Egypt, and we were not
							allowed to stop at Jaffa, but were taken about one hundred and forty miles on the
							Russian steamer. But through it all we could see the hand of the Lord, as we were
							brought into places which it was necessary for us to visit, and which probably
							otherwise we would not have visited, and at all times we received protection from the
							hand of the Lord. And now when the news came of the terrible plague raging in India,
							we had not the least fear, knowing that God was just as able to keep us there as
							during the forepart of our journey.

						As soon as we left the ship at Bombay, one of Thomas Cook & Sons' native agents
							was found, who aided us in getting our baggage through the custom-house, and making
							all arrangements concerning our tickets and other necessary business. By his help we
							had no trouble in getting our baggage through the custom-house. Our trunks and large
							valises were all placed together, and having our smaller ones with us, Cook's agent
							took our papers that we had filled out concerning our baggage, and made all
							arrangements, so that when the officer came for examination, they examined only two or
							three of our small satchels, and merely glanced at them. We were not required to open
							our trunks.

						

						
							ORIENTAL WOMEN, HEAD-DRESS.
						

						

						We were now in this hot Oriental country. Although it was only the ninth day of
							April, the thermometer was above ninety degrees Fahrenheit. We next proceeded to a
							general store owned by English merchants, where each of us purchased an umbrella and a
							large hat called a "topee." After making the necessary purchases and sending a
							telegram to Calcutta with information concerning our arrival, we went to the railway
							station to purchase tickets for Calcutta. Our trunks were weighed and the excess
							baggage on them paid to Calcutta, which was eighty rupees, but the agent reduced the
							amount to seventy-five rupees, or $25.00. First-class tickets would have cost us about
							$35.00 each, but we purchased third-class for about $5.50 each. We had, however, the
							privilege of riding in intermediate coaches, and had two compartments to ourselves.
							The different classes are divided into first-class, second-class, intermediate, and
							third-class. Four missionaries traveling together are entitled to purchase tickets and
							ride one class higher than that which their tickets call for, with the exception of on
							the mail-train. But we desired to leave on the mail-train. The coaches were quite well
							crowded; nevertheless we were permitted to take the intermediate class. The seats
							extended across the car full length, and had no cushions, two seats to a compartment,
							with berth or wire-bottomed cot above, held in place with a chain. Having blankets and
							quilts with us, we substituted them for cushions. The entrance to the car was a side
							door, at the end of the compartment on either side of the coach, like the English
							cars.

						About four o'clock in the afternoon our train started on its fourteen-hundred-mile
							journey to Calcutta. It was Saturday evening. On Sunday we passed through much
							desert-looking country, and through the famine districts, with the sun beating down,
							and the thermometer standing at one 
							
								BOTANICAL GARDENS-- CALCUTTA.
							
							 hundred and five inside the car. India being governed
							by the English, the traveling in that country is much the same as in England, with the
							exception of the language. However, the guards (conductors) and some of the policemen
							and the officers were* able to talk English. Aside from them, few spoke anything but
							some of the Indian dialects.

						Monday morning when we looked from the car windows, we found we were in a more
							fertile district, but the country was quite level, the same as what we had been
							passing through the day before. About nine o'clock we arrived at Howrah, which is the
							name of the station in Calcutta. In purchasing tickets from Bombay, the ticket does
							not read to Calcutta, but to Howrah, like it is in purchasing a ticket from Liverpool
							to London; it does not read from Liverpool to London, but from Liverpool to
							Paddington, Paddington being the principal London station on that line of railroad. As
							our train pulled into the station, we were there met by a number of native brethren
							and sisters who had come to meet us. Among them were Brothers Mundul, Moses, Halder,
							Roy, and Biswas. Also *Sister
							Khan and baby, who were there to meet Brother Khan. It had been exactly one year since
							he departed for America. It was the eleventh day of April, 1904. After meeting with
							the brethren and getting all arrangements made, there were a number of coolies ready
							to take our baggage to the carriage, which was waiting on the outside. They carried
							the trunks and heavy baggage on their heads. We were soon on our way through the
							crowded streets, and in half an hour the carriage stopped in front of 39-4 Sukeas St.,
							which was to be our home while in the city of Calcutta. We had arrived just one week
							earlier than they were expecting us.

						Upon receipt of our telegram stating that we were in 
							*Sister Khan died
								December 12, 1904.
							
							
								VIEW OF CALCUTTA.
							
							 Bombay and would be in Calcutta Monday morning, they
							set about with much earnestness, and prayer that the Lord might help them to have all
							arrangements made. For a few weeks they had been hunting a suitable place for a home,
							but were not able to find such a place to rent until after the telegram concerning our
							coming was received. Then the entire building had to be renovated and set in order,
							and their household goods moved into it. By the time we reached the place, they had it
							quite well arranged, although only a portion of the household articles moved in.

						We were now in a country where the manners and customs were altogether different from
							those of our own country. As we were there to work for the Lord, and as I desired
							during my stay to learn as much as possible about the manners and customs of the
							people, I knew it was necessary to go among the different classes and be one among
							them as much as possible.

						We had not been there very long when we were told that breakfast was ready. There
							were about thirty persons, including children, staying in the Home at the time, with
							"things in common." In the middle of the house was an o,1en court about eighteen or
							twenty feet square. There was no roof over this part of the building. Around this
							court, on the first and second floors, was a space of about six feet, making a
							hallway, with cement floor. At one end of the court, on the second floor, in this
							hallway were spread narrow straw mats. They were placed all along the hallway, with
							plates at proper distances apart for persons to sit on the mats back of them. We all
							came in and sat down in a row. We did not sit down on chairs, for there were on
							chairs. The natives use these mats for their seats; consequently we sat down, crossed
							our legs, placing our feet underneath us. Before each of us was a plate, and a cup of
							water.

						

						
							A COCOANUT TREE.
						

						

						After thanks were returned, a native sister came along with a large dishpan full of
							rice. She was barefooted. They always serve tables in bare feet. She began at the
							first plate, dipping out a handful of rice at a time until all the plates were well
							filled with rice. Then another waiter came along with some chicken curry. The curry is
							very hot gravy, made hot by peppers and spices. Some of this gravy was poured upon the
							rice, and two or three pieces of chicken laid upon the plate, which altogether
							constituted our breakfast. But now came the interesting part of it to us. There was
							neither knife, fork, nor spoon. However, we were not disappointed in this matter, for
							we had been made acquainted concerning their custom of eating with their fingers. In
							fact, before leaving America I had tried the same at home in the presence of my family
							and Brother Khan. Of course, it was not only interesting but amusing to both us and
							the natives, as we, perhaps, were at first more awkward than they were. We began by
							mixing the rice and gravy with our fingers, then proceeded to eat the same by taking a
							small portion at a time in our fingers and conveying it to our mouths. It is the
							custom there to use only the right hand in eating, and to keep the other hand clean.
							First the right hand and fingers are wet with a little water. After the meal is
							finished, some water is poured on the right hand, and it is washed without using the
							left hand, except for pouring the water.

						After our first meal the household goods were brought from their former home, and our
							rooms were furnished with a table and chairs, and with cots and beds with a frame-work
							and mosquito-bars over. Thereafter we had our dishes, knives, forks, spoons, the same
							as in America. Brother Khan had become very well acquainted with the American customs,
							and tried to supply us accordingly. We  then had our
							meals at the table to ourselves, except occasionally when we preferred to go to
							another part of the building where the natives were eating and sit down and eat with
							them in native style. Our doing so occasionally, greatly pleased them, and helped to
							win their confidence.

						One room in the Home was for the purpose of holding meetings and a place for worship.
							The first evening all gathered together for the evening worship. They were of course
							expecting great things of us, having been reading the Trumpet and
							the reports of the many people healed in America and of the manifestation of the power
							of God, and Brother Khan had also written them concerning the many places in America
							where he had met with the various assemblies. The natives were now expecting to
							immediately see some wonderful manifestations of the power of God. There had before
							this been some evangelists from America there, some of whom were not in line with the
							Word of God in life or doctrine. It was therefore a natural thing for the natives to
							desire to see unusual fruits of a holy life and the power of the Lord, in order to
							fully establish confidence.

						There was a man in the little assembly that night upon whom they expected to see the
							manifestation of the power of God through his healing. He had been a Baptist
							missionary for many years. About the year 1897 he lived about three hundred miles from
							Calcutta. A native teacher who had for a long time been in a critical condition with
							rheumatism learned from the brethren in Calcutta and from some of our books of the
							wonderful answers to the prayers of the people in America. He found that some had been
							healed by sending for a handkerchief in accordance with Acts 19:12; so he had the
							brethren send to America for prayers, and the handkerchief was sent accordingly. It
							took two months for his letter to go and another one to 
							return during which time he was a very great sufferer. When it was received and
							applied according to the instructions, God sent his mighty healing power, and the man
							was made well instantly. His limbs were straightened and the pain ceased, and he was
							able to go about praising and glorifying the name of the Lord. This Baptist missionary
							happened to be present at that time, and he began to investigate the doctrine, and was
							enabled to receive much light upon the Word of God; but afterwards, for fear of losing
							his salary, and his social standing among the people, he failed, to walk in the light,
							and went into darkness and sin, until finally about six months before our arrival, he
							fell and fractured his hip. After this he came to the Home at Calcutta for the purpose
							of getting healed, although yet he was unwilling to make a complete sweep of the
							matter and take a full stand for the Bible way, but rather professed over a number of
							things in order to get healed.

						This was the man who was put up as a test case of healing to prove whether for not we
							were really of God and what we professed to be. The man was hoping to be healed that
							night, and the native brethren were expecting the same. We did not know the
							circumstances of his life. When we prayed and the work was not instantly done, some
							began to doubt, and, questions arose in their minds concerning us, though they did not
							express themselves openly. One brother declared that we ought to remain in the room in
							prayer until the work was done, if it took all night. Brother Bailey and I saw at once
							that the lame man was in a bad spiritual condition and under the power and influence
							of an evil spirit, and that there was something in the way of his deliverance which
							had to be searched out. We saw also that the church had drifted into some ways of
							fanaticism. I had to stand up and tell them that they had dropped their 
							
								ELEPHANT AT WORK.
							
							 faith and confidence when the manifestation was not
							what they expected to see, and that God wanted some things brought to light, which
							would be done in due time if all stood true. I had to even mention the name of one
							brother, and talk publicly to him on this line, although he was a very dear brother
							and a young minister. It was rendering judgment soon after our arrival, at our first
							meeting for worship; but God owned it, and before many days all were convinced that I
							was right in the stand I took, and it proved a means of increasing their confidence in
							us.

						We had a lengthy evening worship each evening. Sometimes Brother Bailey or I
							preached, and Brother Khan interpreted. A few in the audience could understand
							English, but most of them could not. At first it was quite difficult for us to speak
							through an interpreter; but we soon became accustomed to it, insomuch that we were not
							much inconvenienced on that line. The manner of interpretation was, first, we would
							speak a sentence or a part of a sentence, and then the interpreter would immediately
							interpret into the Indian language. Our company generally sat on chairs in front, and
							the others on mats on the floor, with their legs crossed and feet under them. In this
							way they would sit and pray, sing, testify, and sometimes preach while in that
							position. Occasionally some of us would take our places on the mats with them.

						On Saturday night after our arrival they had a reception meeting for us in the court
							next to the worship room. They had composed some songs welcoming us to India, and as
							these were sung they marched around us, clapping their hands, and throwing wreaths of
							flowers around our necks. These were beautiful white flowers strung upon a strong
							thread. It was their way of expressing their gratitude, and we could only sit there
							and weep with melted hearts to see 
							
								A BENGALI HYMN.
							
							 them rejoice that some one had come to help them along
							in the way of salvation.

						Notwithstanding all their love and gratitude toward us, the enemy had laid his plot
							to bring in a compromise if possible. During the absence of Brother Khan another
							brother had assumed the oversight of the church and Home. He was sincere and
							self-sacrificing, but very fanatical concerning dress, eating, matters of economy and
							living, and doctrinal points about such things. He tried to bring all the brothers and
							sisters to his idea of these things, and had all under bondage. He soon came to my
							room and asked to have a talk, and said he had twenty-one points to speak of at
							present. The first one was concerning the frequency of observing the Lord's Supper.
							tie was inclined to think it ought to be observed every time the church met, or at
							least very often, in order to remember the Lord's death.

						Another point was the head-dress of the women. It is the custom of the women of that
							country to wear a "shira," a long piece of white cloth wound about the body, and one
							end over the head, like a shawl. He and about all the others held it was a requirement
							that they wear a head-cover, especially when in prayer or when in meeting. He did not
							say much to me about it, but talked to Sister Bailey and Sister Nichols, and finally
							asked them to put a covering on their heads when at meeting. After preaching on the
							subject, we saw the matter was sure to soon be brought to a focus in some way. It
							caused a council to be held among themselves, and they decided that two or three of
							them should wait on us and give their decision that nothing more should be said
							publicly about the matter. Brother Bailey and I saw that they were on a line of
							compromise and fanaticism, and in error, and that they were determined we must fall in
							line. We told them that they were in error, and that 
							
								ORANG-UTAN, INDIA.
							
							 we did not come all the way to India to compromise
							truth and error, neither would we agree not preach it publicly, but if there was no
							other way of getting them to see the truth, we would preach it publicly and fully
							expose the error of their false doctrine. For a day or two it looked as if a few of us
							would have to stand alone. A number of them came to one of the rooms, and we had a
							special meeting and conversation concerning the matter, and the Lord helped us to
							explain the eleventh chapter of First Corinthians, and they saw their error and
							acknowledged that we were right. From that time unity prevailed.

						We did not object in the least to their wearing their head-covering according to
							their custom, whether in the meeting, at prayer, or elsewhere, if done as a matter of
							custom; but we did object to it being made a Bible doctrine. It was not a matter to
							become contentions over as a custom of the church. But like it was with the
							Corinthians, some of them were in the habit of wearing a head-covering because of the
							custom of the country, and so e believed that it ought to be a requirement of all to
							wear the head-dress during the time of prayer, and some did not deem it necessary.
							Paul gave them to understand that it was all right to observe the custom of the
							country, and wear the covering, and that while it was all right to do so from the mere
							standpoint of the custom of their country, yet he said, "If any man seem to be
							contentious, we have no such custom, neither the churches of God." 1 Cor. 11: 16. And
							we had to tell the people of Calcutta, that, while it was all right for them to wear
							the head-dress, yet if they or any one else seemed to be contentious over the matter,
							there was no such custom nor requirement in the church of God.

						The brother who had so earnestly contended for his ideas on this line, after
							considerable expounding of the Scriptures  and praying
							over the matter, saw the truth as set forth in the Word of God; but it was not long
							after until he began to realize, as he continued in prayer alone before God, that he
							was not in a proper spiritual condition, and the next day while praying for his son a
							circumstance was brought about which made him realize and know that he himself had no
							experience of salvation. Then he could plainly see how he had drifted into such a line
							of fanaticism and ways of bondage. He began calling upon the Lord for help, and soon
							obtained a real experience of salvation. From that time forth there was a wonderful
							change in his life, and he soon became a real help to others, instead of bringing them
							under bondage and fanaticism. The first Sunday after our arrival there were eighteen
							consecrations. The second Sunday nine were baptized in the canal near by.
					

					

					

						CAMP-MEETING IN CALCUTTA.

						THE camp-meeting commenced May 1st, and lasted ten days. At first
							the congregation was not very large, and only a few consecrations, and little visible
							results, although we were having quite good meetings, and a few were being saved and a
							few sick healed. Brother Bailey and I had to do most of the preaching, and Brother
							Khan interpreted. Brothers W. M. Roy, J. M. Roy and M. Moses, and Sister Nichols each
							preached once, and Brother Khan once or twice. As the Lord began to manifest his power
							in healing some who were sick, we were sent for to go to different places in the city
							and pray for the sick. Requests came in through the mails and by person, and the Lord
							answered prayer in healing. Others began to put in for healing and spiritual help. The
							congregations increased in number.

						

						One day a young Baptist came and asked us to pray that he might be saved. At night we
							preached on divine healing and the casting out of devils, and a number came forward
							for prayers, who received help according to their needs. Among the number was a woman.
							When we prayed for her, and rebuked the devil, the devils cried out with loud cries
							and strange noises, with manifestations of the body, which convinced the audience in
							such a way as could not be gainsaid that it was a clear case of devils. She was
							delivered and saved. The young man who was saved that day came for the healing of his
							ear. He had been totally deaf in one ear ever since he was a small boy. He was
							instantly and perfectly healed. There was much shouting for joy, which continued after
							the meeting, with a queer Indian performance of singing, shouting, shaking hands, and
							forming circles, something like an Indian dance.

						The next day a brother from Bogra who had been deaf in one ear for a number of years
							went to praying in his native tongue, and said, "Lord, you healed that young man, and
							he was just like I am. He was totally deaf for a number of years in one ear, and that
							is just the way I have been. Now why won't you heal me?" He received the evidence that
							he would be healed that night. After the discourse was finished that night, he, with
							others, came forward, and was instantly healed while we were praying. Before this we
							had heard him say but one word in English. One day previous to this he had been sent
							to our room for a spoon, and told that when he asked for it to say "spoon," which he
							did. But when he was healed, while our hands were yet upon his head, he sprang to his
							feet, threw up his hands, and shouted in English, "Praise the Lord!" With his hands
							above his head, his elbows slightly bent, and standing upon his feef, with his knees
							bent about like his 
							
								BULLOCK CART AD DRIVER IN SIAM.
							
							 elbows, he began leaping up and down, shouting the
							praises of God for his perfect healing. We met both of these men a few weeks later and
							found them still well and perfectly healed, and praising God for his blessings upon
							soul and body.

						Among the others who came forward for prayer that night was a young married man who
							was a Hindu, a worshiper of idols. He had consecrated in the meeting on Sunday before
							the camp-meeting began. His brother was at home seriously sick. As he was kneeling at
							the altar, we went to him, and asked what he desired from the Lord. He said that he
							was not asking anything for himself, but for his brother, who was at home sick and had
							been for some time, and very grievously afflicted. His brother was about fourteen
							years of age. The remainder of the family were all idol-worshipers. We all knelt in
							special prayer and asked God to heal that boy. The next morning this man came, saying,
							"Last night during the hour of prayer my brother was made well, to the astonishment of
							the family."

						At the close of the meeting that night a servant on the outside was waiting to have
							us go to another part of the city to visit a native missionary who was very ill. It
							was almost eleven o'clock at night when we arrived. We found the man in a critical
							condition. He had been a missionary of the Church of England, and secretary and one of
							the leading members of the Missionary Society in Calcutta for a number of years. He
							was suffering, he said, on account of his sins. God had been trying to lead him to a
							holy life; but he would not walk in the light, and therefore he was permitted to have
							his own way, and although still a missionary, had gone deep into sin. His sufferings
							were intense, and had been for quite a long time. He could  get no help through medical assistance, and said that God was permitting
							him to be punished for his disobedience. He told us that he must have help for his
							soul whether he got his healing or not, and that he would walk in the light as God
							made it known to him. We prayed for the salvation of his soul, then anointed him with
							oil in the name of the Lord, according to the Word of God, laid our hands upon him,
							asking God to heal him. Hie quieted down to some extent, and after giving him some
							words of encouragement we left him.

						The house was now crowded to overflowing, also the hallways, and out along the
							streets the people crowded to hear the gospel. The last night of the meeting I
							preached from 7:30 to 10 to a large audience, whom the Spirit of the Lord held
							spellbound. Although speaking through an interpreter, God gave perfect liberty and
							freedom in presenting the Word. The meeting closed with victory. Five more were
							baptized at the close of the meeting.
					

					

					

						THE MAN WHO HAD NEVER HEARD OF JESUS.

						ONE day as Brother Moses and I were making some purchases in the
							city, we came to a place where a poor native was standing in a pool of blood, with his
							head bent over near the curbing of the sidewalk. There bareheaded, barebacked, in the
							hot sun, suffering with intense pain, he was weeping loudly, having in some way
							received an injury to his foot. Brother Moses, speaking to him i, his native language,
							asked him to get up on the pavement, which he did. Some cloth was procured, and a
							bandage made for his foot. After it was properly dressed, Brother Moses asked if we
							should pray for him. We then asked him if he knew 
							anything about Jesus Christ, to which he replied that he did not. He said that he had
							never heard of. him. We then told him of some of the wonderful healings that the Lord
							had been doing the past few days at the meeting, and asked him if he would believe if
							we prayed for him. He replied that he would. A crowd had gathered about us. As we
							knelt, we laid our hands upon his foot, asking God to send the healing power. He was
							yet weeping, the tears rolling down his cheeks because of the pain; but instantly
							while we were praying God sent the healing power, and his weeping was turned to
							laughing, and his tears swept away, and he began to rejoice. The change was
							instantaneous; he felt the power of God go through him. Being in a hurry, we started
							away with a bag of sugar which had just been purchased. We had gone but a few steps
							when the man caught up with us, began pulling the bag of sugar, and insisted upon
							taking it, and immediately placed it upon his head and started on before us. He wanted
							to do something to show his gratitude for our attention to him, and knew of no other
							way by which he could express his feeling of gratitude.

						This made quite an impression upon my mind, to think that here was a man who had
							never heard of Jesus Christ and his power to heal, and upon the first opportunity he
							submitted himself to God and believed and received the healing touch. If a poor
							ignorant heathen can receive such benefits in so short a time, what ought we to do who
							have heard the Word of God time after time for years, and have seen the manifestation
							of his power? Should we not almost be put to shame because of our lack of faith?

						The last commission that Jesus gave to his followers was to go to all nations and
							preach the gospel, and he said, "These signs shall follow them that believe." Among
							the 
							
								NOMADIC TRIBE OF BENGAL.
							
							 signs mentioned were that in his name they should cast
							out devils, lay hands on the sick, and they should recover. See Mat. 28: 19, 20; Mark
							16: 14-18. In the same commission he gave the promise of salvation to those who
							believe, and as we read nowhere in the Bible that these promises were to be denied
							believers, we can go forth with all confidence, knowing that God will fulfil his
							Word.
					

					

					

						OPPOSITION OF MISSIONARY SOCIETIES.

						THE missionary societies and sectarian preachers had heard of our
							coming, and many of them had seen the Gospel Trumpet and some of our
							other literature; therefore in a special conference in Calcutta the matter as to what
							they were going to do with us was brought up for consideration. They finally
							unanimously decided upon the plan of the old wicked Jews and Pharisees, who arrested
							Peter and John, and threatened them, and commanded them to speak no more in the name
							of Jesus, that there be no more such work done as healing the lame and the sick.
							Notwithstanding that the different denominations were at sword's point on many
							questions concerning the Bible and its teachings, and concerning their peculiar
							religious beliefs and their divers differences concerning their creeds, governments,
							and such like, they were a unit in taking a stand to fight the truth, and to prevent,
							if possible, the spread of the gospel, that the sick might not get healed, nor devils
							be cast out, nor the corruptions of their creeds be exposed.

						After some consideration their decree was passed that a committee be appointed to
							wait upon us and inform us concerning the step that had been taken by this
							self-imposed, august body. We were to be requested to drop our  "fanatical" ideas, such as teaching divine healing, casting out devils,
							against the divisions and corruptions of sectism, living free from sin in this world,
							and many other things to which they objected. We were then to be requested to fall in
							line with them and to join their society, or, in other words, be one with them,
							insomuch that we would not oppose or expose their crookedness. Furthermore, we were to
							be informed that if we did not yield to their wishes they would unitedly take a stand
							against us, and oppose us on every line, and if possible prevent us from working in
							India. It reminded us very much of Sanballat of old. When Nehemiah was building the
							walls of Jerusalem, Sanballat desired him to stop the building and come and make a
							league with him, or let them all work together; but Nehemiah was commissioned of the
							Lord to do his work, and determined to go ahead and build the walls, and fight his way
							through if necessary. At first the enemy tried to ridicule them. Making a failure in
							this, he tried to scare them, and then tried to coax, but all to no avail. The
							building of the walls continued. Although this body of would-be preachers and
							missionaries informed us that they would oppose us, and would do everything possible
							to stop our literature from being received among the people, we remembered that God
							had commissioned us to preach the gospel and to preach it in all its purity without
							compromise and with love toward all men and suffering humanity.

						The one chosen as a committee to deliver the message was Brother Khan's former
							professor in college, who still held him in very high esteem. With a very grave
							countenance and much seriousness he delivered his message, but plead with Brother Khan
							to turn from his ways and belief, and said that he could have a high position in the
							church and the college. But these things had little weight. Brother  Khan informed him that he had thoroughly considered this
							matter in the light of eternity and the Word of God, and that he was moving by the
							direction of the Spirit of God in accordance with the Word, and was also acting in
							accordance with his conscience; therefore could not conscientiously do otherwise than
							continue the course which lie was pursuing. And he also informed him that God was
							honoring the Word in saving souls, healing the sick, and doing what had been promised
							believers. The professor seemed greatly grieved, yet, at the same time, as for
							himself, he feared to further press the matter, lest he receive a greater disfavor of
							the Lord.

						Accordingly as they had decided they began their work, and wrote to different parts
							of India to colleges, schools, and missions where our literature had been received,
							warning the people against the literature, and urging the ministers, missionaries, and
							teachers to warn the people against our literature and also against us. However, like
							the persecutions in the days of the apostles, it only worked out to the furtherance of
							the gospel. In a few days some of their letters were sent to us, the senders telling
							of the warning that had been given. Those who sent the letters to us stated that some
							of our books and papers had been received and were still acceptable. And now as the
							warning had been given, they were anxious to get hold of more literature, as they felt
							it was according to the Word of God, and they also desired us to send some ministers
							to preach the whole gospel.
					

					

					
						 A VISIT TO ASSAM.

						ON Wednesday morning, May 11, Brother Bailey and I and some native
							ministers, Brothers Moses, Dhorham, J. M. and W. M. Roy, started for Cherrapoonjee and
							Shillong in Assam, Northeastern India. After traveling about one hundred and fifty
							miles on the train, about two o'clock in the afternoon we took steamer on a river,
							after which we traveled on two other steamers until Saturday evening, when we arrived
							at Chattuk.

						Almost all along the river in this low, level country the river-banks were lined with
							villages. We could scarcely look out at any time without seeing villages, and this
							continued from Wednesday until Saturday. We were told that very few missionaries were
							working in that part of the country among those people in the darkness of sin and
							heathenism. Truly we felt the great need of teaching them the ways of the Lord, and
							pointing out the way to heaven.

						After leaving the steamer late Saturday evening, we found a native brother from near
							Cherrapoonjee, who had engaged two rowboats for us and our baggage. These boats had a
							bamboo cover over the top, which somewhat resembled an old pioneer wagon-cover. The
							trip before us by water was about ten miles. We had gone only a short distance until
							we came to the jungles, principally of a high thicket of reeds, or something like
							canebrakes, from about ten to twenty feet in height above the water, and so thickly
							grown that we could see only a few feet from the boat. As a portion of the jungles is
							overflowed frequently, a road had been made for a quarter or half a mile by cutting
							these reeds and bushes off below the water, making a long, narrow passage, just wide
							enough for the boat, which was pushed by two natives with bamboo poles. These 
							
								NATIVE BOATS ON THE RIVER-- INDIA.
							
							A VISIT TO ASSAM. boatmen were naked, with the exception
							of a small piece of cloth around their hips. It was no uncommon sight to see them
							going about the village streets and elsewhere attired in this manner.

						Frequently these narrow passages would open into a pond or little lake, where there
							were no bushes. This would have to be crossed, and occasionally there would be two or
							three roads leading out into different places. Some time during the night the boatmen
							became alarmed, fearing they were not going in the proper direction; therefore they
							fastened their boat, and remained until the morning, lost in the jungles. Soon after
							daybreak we found our way, and came to a place where we landed for a short time, then
							went on our way. We had not gone far until we came to a place where the stream was
							about twenty feet wide, rather winding, and the water deep, and running very swiftly.
							By a sudden turn of the boat, one of the boatmen and Brother Dhorham were thrown
							overboard; but both being able to swim were soon rescued.

						About ten o'clock in the morning we reached a small village, where a change of boats
							had to be made, as we were now in a larger stream and were soon to go still farther up
							the stream, where the river was narrow and very swift, and a smaller boat was
							required. While waiting here we sang a few songs, and about fifty natives came to
							listen. As soon as the boats were ready, we continued our voyage up the rapid, shallow
							stream. Sometimes the boatmen had to get out and pull and push and guide the boat
							among the rocks in the rapids.

						About noon we arrived at a little village along the stream, at which place our voyage
							ended. From here we were to travel ten miles over the hills and mountains of
							Cherrapoonjee. It was very warm, and we had but two ponies.
					

					

					
						COOLIES BREAKING STONE.
					

					

					

						AMONG THE DEVIL-WORSHIPERS.

						WE now entered the country of the devil-worshipers, or the people
							who sacrifice to devils. We had heard considerable about them, and knew something
							about the people where we were going; but as the three native brethren were from that
							part of the country, we knew God would help us to give the people the Word of God.
							These people have many traditional and superstitious beliefs. A few years ago they
							were mere roaming savages. At the present time one does not have to go far among them
							to find those who are scarcely half civilized, and who, will flee at the sight of a
							white man. They have their religious beliefs and traditional customs.

						When any of their number becomes sick or seriously afflicted in any way they send for
							their priest. There is generally a priest for every village. The people almost all
							live in villages. The priest comes and brings with him a board, which we call the
							"devil divining-board." At one end of this board is placed some earth, in which are
							also placed some ingredients of some kind, and in the center of the board are placed a
							few grains of rice and also on each corner of the board. The priest then takes up an
							egg in his hand and after some peculiar performance or saying a few words, throws it
							down upon the center of the board, breaking it. If a certain portion of the shell goes
							to a certain corner, that indicates that the sick one is the cause of the disease. If
							it goes to another corner, it signifies something else, and so on around, and this is
							continued until it indicates also what kind of sacrifice is to be made. One egg after
							another is broken until the priest is satisfied concerning the indications. There is
							generally a pile of eggs left unbroken. The sacrifice is then made to the devil;  but we were told that the priest generally gets the
							benefit of the same, although there are sacrifices sometimes made from which the
							priest receives no benefit further than his pay, and even human lives are
							sacrificed.

						The native brother who met us with the boats pointed out the place where about a year
							ago his brother seventeen years old, while going to his work one morning along the
							road leading through the jungles, was suddenly caught by some of those savage
							devil-worshipers and carried into the jungles, the ends of his fingers were cut off,
							and an instrument was run through his nose, so as to get his blood to sacrifice to the
							devil. His body was then thrown into the river, where it was found a few hours later.
							Quite frequently human lives are sacrificed in that community, although much has been
							done there on the line of civilization. To the extent such is carried on farther back
							into the interior, we can only surmise.

						At the place where we left the boat there was a village near the shore, and we had
							passed only two or three houses when we came to a place where a sick woman was sitting
							on the porch, or rather under the shed of the house, and the priest sitting near by
							sacrificing a chicken. By him lay the divining-board, a pile of unbroken eggs, and a
							number of broken ones. The chicken was scarcely half grown. It was still fluttering in
							his hands. He hastily removed the entrails, and we were told that this was done so
							that the chicken would be all right to eat after he got through with it. Whether he
							ate the chicken afterwards we did not learn. Our curiosity being somewhat aroused, we
							went to the place and through an interpreter began to talk to them. A crowd of
							villagers soon gathered about. The priest was inclined to joke, and did not consider
							our interruption anything objectionable. After asking them a number of questions 
							
								TRAINING A BEAR.
							
							 concerning their mode of performance, we told them of
							the power of the Lord to heal the sick in answer to prayer, also told them of a number
							of persons who had recently been healed in Calcutta. The word had come before us in
							some way concerning the meeting and the healing that had been done. The woman
							seriously objected to being molested, and gave us to understand she did not want our
							prayers, but we were not aware of the effect it was having upon the villagers.

						We proceeded to the other side of the village to a place called a hotel. Had it been
							in America or some other country, we should have thought it preposterous; nevertheless
							it was rather amusing to us to call it a hotel. It reminded me very much of my boyhood
							days, when we had a similar-looking place built on the top of our log hog-pen for a
							corn-crib. But now it was time for the noonday meal, and we had a tiresome journey
							before us; therefore we accepted the invitation to this boarding-house or hotel. The
							foundation poles were upon large bamboo posts, set in the ground, about six feet high.
							A house was built out of these poles, by a kind of framework fastened together in some
							way, with a straw roof on the top. The hotel consisted of one room about eight by ten
							feet. The floor was made of bamboo poles from four to six inches in diameter, split in
							the middle, with the round part turned up. There: was no furniture in the room. A few
							stones were placed together in one part, upon which a fire was built to do the
							cooking, but there was no chimney for the smoke to pass through. It had to find its
							way out through the grass roof, the cracks in the side, and at the door. There was a
							very dilapidated-looking ladder, which served as steps up to the entrance. Climbing up
							these steps we crawled in. Some straw mats, or rather mats made from splits of bamboo,
								
							
								A TRAINED ELEPHANT.
							
							 were thrown down for us to sit upon. Then we were
							served with some meat, rice, and milk.

						After finishing the meal, when almost ready to begin our journey, some who had heard
							us talking to the priest and the sick woman, went home and told their friends about
							it, and that those were the ministers from Calcutta, where the big meeting was held.
							Some of their friends being sick, and having heard some of the gospel taught before by
							one of the brethren who had been through there, sent and asked us if we would not come
							and pray for them. We went, and found a woman and a small girl sick, for whom we
							prayed. The woman expressed a desire to be saved, and after some instruction and
							prayer she believed for the salvation of her soul. Upon our return, a week from that
							time, she came to the riverside, and was baptized in the river.

						We were soon on our journey over the hillsides, through groves, where the jack-fruit
							was hanging from the sides and limbs of the trees, and where there were various other
							kinds of fruits and nuts, which help to supply the natives with food. The jack-fruit
							is in appearance much similar to a hedge-apple, but many times larger. It protrudes
							from the large limbs and also from the body of the tree, with a stem about the size of
							a man's finger, and the fruit ranging from eight to twenty-four inches in length, and
							from six to ten inches in diameter.

						After going a few miles, we came to another village, where a priest was breaking eggs
							to determine the sacrifice to be made for a sick child. After talking to them a short
							time, the parents and the priest informed us that this was the way their forefathers
							did and taught them to do, and that they did not care to change their ways.

						After going about five miles from the first village, we  were passing through another village, and it was raining. Some one who had heard of
							us before, and expected us to pass through there, came and told us that there was a
							lady very sick who desired us to come and pray for her. We went back. The rain poured
							down in torrents while we were there. However, we spent the time in instructing her in
							the way of salvation and healing. She was lying upon a mat un the ground floor. We
							were told that she had been thus afflicted for five years, similar to the one
							mentioned in Mark 5: 25, 26. She had tried doctors, devil-worshipers, and everything
							she knew. For a year she had been a terrible sufferer, and for four months had
							received no sound, natural sleep, because of her severe pain and sickness.

						After a few words of instruction she yielded herself to the Lord as best she knew.
							She had previously to this time received some instruction from one of the brethren.
							After praying for her soul, we laid our hands upon her in the name of the Lord, and
							asked him to send his healing power. She still lay in the same position. Then we
							commanded her in the name of Jesus to arise, which she did, and was much better, but
							still suffering. We again prayed, and she was enabled to praise the Lord for his
							wonderful help. As we had quite a journey before us, we had to immediately leave; but
							a few days later she was brought five miles to our meeting, and the next day after our
							meetings closed, while on our way back to the river, when we came to this village, she
							came out desiring to be baptized. She walked down the steep hillside to the stream,
							and was baptized, and walked up the hill again to the village, giving the Lord the
							praise and the glory.

						It was getting late in the afternoon when we arrived at Cherrapoonjee. Here we found
							the fruits of the labors  of some of these native
							brethren whom the Lord had called not only out of the darkness of heathenism and
							devil-worship, but also out of sectism. The same God that had been calling his people
							out into the one body, the one church, and to preach the whole gospel, had called
							these native ministers to go forth and preach the Word in its purity. At this place
							quite a body of believers were raised up, and heeded the words of the Master to what
							light they had. We found also that the brethren had been preaching the gospel on the
							same line that we were preaching it, and that God had given them the same experience
							of salvation. The people were anxious to hear the Word taught in all its fulness. They
							had erected a house of worship, and meetings were appointed. We began soon after our
							arrival.

						The people here in Assam very much resemble our American Indians, both in appearance
							and in many of their customs. Their manner of sitting down while in the house of
							worship is different from those in Calcutta, as here they sit down with their feet
							flat on the floor in front of them, their knees upright. The women sit down in a row
							along the wall in this manner, and another row directly in front of them, leaning
							against the knees of those behind them. In this way a great number of them crowd into
							a room, more than could be seated otherwise. The women take one side of the house, and
							the men the other. But few seats or benches were in the house. Those were mostly in
							front for the ministers. Almost the entire congregation sit on mats on the floor. In
							fact, they generally prefer sitting in that way to sitting upon seats.

						At this place they speak the Khasi language. We had two interpreters while in Assam.
							One was Brother W. M. Roy from Shillong; the other, Brother J. M. Roy, a native of
							that country. who had for some years been in college 
							
								A HYMN IN THE KHASI LANGUAGE.
							
							 at Calcutta. Both of these brethren have been giving
							their time and talents in the gospel work without salary. Also, Brother Dhorham has
							for some time been doing evangelistic work at the villages round about. At the first
							opportunity for an altar service, more than twenty-five came forward for prayers. In
							making their way forward to the altar, but few of them would rise and walk forward,
							but slid themselves along in the same posture as they had been sitting. Not being able
							to speak the language, we were at some disadvantage in instructing so many who had so
							little chance to hear the Word preached on the various themes of salvation. However,
							some of them claimed to receive the needed help. Arrangements having been made for us
							to be there the next Sunday, we had to go to Shillong in the mean time, and return in
							time for the meetings. We therefore stayed only two or three days.
					

					

					

						CASTING OUT DEVILS.

						INDIA is quite a noted place for the superstitious ideas of its
							people, because of the ignorance among the more savage and uneducated tribes. As they
							advance in the ways of civilization, many of these superstitious ideas are swept away.
							In Assam among those people who sacrifice to devils there are many superstitions
							concerning the devil and his power. There are also people who are called witches. In
							some parts of the country is, it is said, a certain kind of snake which is kept in the
							house alive, and to which human lives are sacrificed. One day, while passing along the
							streets of a city, we passed by a house in which, we were told, lived a woman who was
							a witch, and who kept one of those snakes. Some time before this quite a prominent man
							was found dead near there, his blood having been sacrificed to this snake.

						

						
							WITCH OF GHOOM.
						

						

						In case of sickness, they have many ways of charming evil spirits, which, they say,
							are generally the cause of the disease. Sometimes the people gather together with
							musical instruments, and have an Indian performance or dance to overpower or drive
							away the evil spirits. Frequently, in ease of a severe affliction or a real
							manifestation of the devil, they send for a priest, who comes in the evening just
							about the time it begins to get dark. Really it does seem that the devil has a
							wonderful power over the people of that country. They have given way to their
							superstitions and sacrifices to the devil so long that they seem to be almost entirely
							under his power, and are afraid not to follow his dictations or not to sacrifice to
							him.

						It frequently happens that the devil will actually carry on a conversation in an
							audible voice through the organs of speech of his victim. Upon good, reliable
							authority we were told of a lady near there, who a few years ago was taken sick with
							cholera. In former years she had sacrificed to devils, but more recently some of her
							older children had come in contact with the preaching of the gospel, and had accepted
							Christianity, and she herself had begun to believe in Christianity, and disobeyed the
							devil, insomuch that she failed to make some sacrifices which she during another spell
							of sickness had promsed to make.

						When she became sick, and it was apparent that she would die, some of the members of
							the family and friends insisted upon sending for the priest. He came after dark, and
							sat outside the house, going over his enchanting words. Soon the devil seemed to come
							and manifest himself through her, using her organs of speech. Hie began to talk to her
							and the family. Hie said to the oldest son, "You do not believe in this, and your
							mother will die." Knowing that his mother was so near the point of death, the young
								
							
								A TIBETAN PRIEST CASTING OUT EVIL
							
							 man feared to say anything, lest it might result in
							something serious. He quietly submitted to the performance. The devil said to the
							woman, "This time you are going to die. You promised to sacrifice to me before, and do
							certain things, which you failed to do, and now as a punishment you will die." Finally
							the woman agreed to make the sacrifices which she had promised before, and also to
							make the present sacrifices that were required. When everything was submitted to the
							will of the devil so that he could have his own way with them, he was willing to take
							his departure that he might have power over them in the future. The priest on the
							outside then took a handful of mustard, and drawing back his hand, took a step or two
							and threw the mustard against the side of the house, and said to the devil, "Go." This
							was repeated a few times, and finally with a great noise he took his departure; and,
							strange to say, the woman was immediately well.

						This incident was told us by an eye-witness. At first thought it may seem to some to
							be in direct opposition to the Word of God; but after being among: those people for a
							while and realizing to what extent they are under the power and fear of the devil, it
							did not seem so strange. The Bible tells us in both the Old and the New Testament of
							the power of the devil, of how the magicians of old worked miracles which seemed even
							as great as those worked through Moses and Aaron. When Paul was going about preaching,
							one time he met a damsel who had been doing many wonderful things through the spirit
							which she possessed; but when that spirit was cast out through the instrumentality of
							Paul, she was powerless. She had no power any more to make money for her keepers, and
							they were greatly enraged.

						

						
							A DANDY FOR CARRYING PEOPLE.
						

						

						In the sixteenth chapter of Revelation and the fourteenth verse we read of "the
							spirits of devils working miracles." If he worked miracles in time past, it would not
							be strange should lie do the same at the present time; and if some of those miracles
							were almost exactly like those wrought through the people and by the power of God, it
							would not be strange should there be similar manifestations now. Jesus went about
							laying hands on those who were sick, and casting devils out of many (Luke 4: 40, 41);
							the Apostles were given power to do the same (Mat. 10: 1); the Seventy were given
							power over devils (Luke 10: 17-20); and the promise was to "them that believe," which
							includes us if we are believers of the gospel in this present day. Mark 16: 16-18. Is
							it, then, strange if the devil tries to make some close counterfeits in the
							manifestations of his power? So we found it in India, and especially in Assam.

						In that part of the country where they sacrifice to the devil, lie has most of them
							completely under his power, and through those ignorant and superstitious priests as
							his agents he keeps them in subjection. The performance of the priest in throwing
							mustard is only one of the ways the devil has to keep the people under his power, and
							he can take possession or touch their bodies at his will. Through former leagues they
							have made with him by promising to sacrifice, they feel under obligation to send for
							the priest; and in order to make it more impressive upon their minds, the evil spirit
							in the sick person will yield to the influence and command of the priest, who is the
							devil's instrument. Thus, we find many afraid to accept Christianity because of the
							threats of the devil. When the Word of God is preached with authority from heaven,
							exposing these things, it ofttimes enrages the enemy; but 
							
								NEPALY COOLY WOMEN.
							
							 he must flee before the Word and power of God, and his
							kingdom can not stand in the presence and power of the Holy Spirit.
					

					

					
						SHILLONG.

						WE next went to Shillong, thirty-three miles distant and held
							meeting until Friday, then returned to Cherrapoonjee. Before leaving Cherrapoonjee the
							first time. prayer was offered for quite a number for healing as well as salvation.
							This trip of thirty-three miles had to be made in one day, some of it over hills and
							mountainous country; with only two small ponies for the entire company. Besides the
							native ministers, several native brethren and some women, who desired to attend the
							meeting, walked the entire distance, and after two or three days walked back
							again.

						Shillong is a place where a great many English people live, but our meetings at that
							place were mostly held among the natives. When we arrived in the city, about nine
							o'clock at night, we were taken to the home of a native brother, who had lived among
							the English people long enough to have their manners and customs to quite an extent.
							At this place we were well cared for. Soon after our arrival, according to the Eastern
							custom, we were invited into another room, where the brother had arranged for water to
							be brought for the washing of our feet. We had been traveling all day long through the
							hot climate, and the hot bath for our feet was real refreshing. It reminded us of the
							objections which many people in America raise against the ordinance of feet-washing as
							set forth in the thirteenth chapter of St. John; but the brother did not offer to wash
							our feet, because that was not the custom. The custom to-day in those Oriental
							countries is the same as it was 
							
								MANNER OF CARRYING STONE-- NEPALY WORKMEN.
							
							 with the ancient Jews, and that is, water is brought
							and set before the visitor, and he is to wash his own feet.

						A few evenings later we had an ordinance-meeting in the same house, and there
							observed the ordinance of feet-washing as commanded by Jesus. John 13: 14, 15. It so
							happened that the same brother that a few evenings before had brought water for me to
							wash my feet now brought water and began to wash my feet. The first evening he
							observed the custom of the country by letting me wash my own feet; the last evening
							lie observed the ordinance of the Bible by himself washing my feet while others washed
							each other's feet according to the Word of God, showing clearly that they understand
							the difference between the custom of the country and the ordinance of the Bible.

						At this place the house was crowded with earnest listeners, and large crowds gathered
							on the outside to listen to the Word of God. There were a number of consecrations for
							salvation: some for the forgiveness of sins, and others for the experience of
							sanctification. There were also two or three baptismal services, and we were all much
							blessed in the fellowship of the Spirit.

						From here we started in the afternoon on Friday for Cherrapoonjee again, and soon
							after dark arrived at a village ten miles away. After having something to eat,
							arrangements were made for a meeting, as some of the brethren had before preached in
							this place, and a house of worship had been erected. The people were so eager to hear
							the Word of God that they arranged for a meeting to begin at nine o'clock at night,
							which was as soon as we could get ready. The house was crowded, with quite a number on
							the outside, and at the close of the service, a number came forward for prayers.

						The next morning we continued our journey. Before 
							reaching this village, word came to us that some who had been prayed for who were
							seriously afflicted had been healed. Among them was the sister of an Indian chief.
							This chief sent us four ponies, which met us along the way, that we might be enabled
							to ride the remainder of our journey. We then continued our meetings at Cherrapoonjee
							over Sunday with much interest. The natives arranged for the time of the services, and
							we were informed on Saturday night that the first service for preaching would begin at
							seven o'clock 
								A VILLAGE MARKET IN THE KHASI HILLS.
							 in the morning, another service at 10:30, then a baptismal service,
							preaching at 2:30, after which ordinance services were to be held, and preaching at
							night. Hundreds of people gathered along the shores of the stream to witness the
							baptismal service. Among the number baptized was a leper who was saved during the
							meeting. There are two kinds of leprosy in this country: one in which the fingers and
							toes drop off, and the blood throughout the entire body seems to be greatly
							disordered; and another kind,  which breaks out in large
							spots as white as snow. We met a number of both kinds of leprosy, some very pitiable
							cases.

						It would have been very amusing to the people of America to witness some of the
							things at the baptismal services. Many of the men in that part of the country wear no
							shirts, being entirely bare to their hips, and from the hips down wear a kind of
							winding-sheet of thin white cloth, called a "dooty." However, most of them who have
							lived among the civilized people, wear, especially when attending services, a common
							shirt hanging loose at the bottom over the other clothes. All who were to be baptized
							were properly dressed; but as we were preparing to enter the water, we saw them begin
							to take off their shirts, and as but few of them could understand English, it was with
							some difficulty that we at first made them understand they must leave their shirts on
							while being baptized. Had they removed their shirts and been baptized, the people of
							that country would have thought nothing strange about it, as such attire is only an
							every-day scene; but we informed them that they must advance on this line, and also
							informed the native ministers that they must teach them concerning these things, as
							well as others along the line of advancing in the ways of civilization. Among the
							brethren at these places, were some who had attended college, some who had taught
							school, some who held government positions, some who were merchants, and others who
							were from the lowest walks of society; but God is searching out a people among
							them.

						There are quite a number of Presbyterians and Methodists in these communities; but
							they are bitter opposers to holiness, regardless of the words of the apostle in Heb.
							12: 14. They also oppose divine healing and the teaching concerning the oneness of
							God's people and church as recorded in John 17: 19-23, and Acts 20: 28.

						

						
							A ROAD SWEEPER.
						

						

						There are also some very peculiar customs here concerning marriage. It is the custom
							among these hill people that when a man and woman desire to be married, they simply go
							to living together as man and wife; but should they desire to separate and become
							divorced, they must go through a certain performance in order to make it legal. There
							is a kind of shell, the shape of a common sea-shell, about an inch in length. The
							husband takes seven or nine of these shells in each hand; and if the wife is willing
							to grant a divorce, he hands the shells in one hand to the woman. They hold them a
							while, and then exchange, she putting her shells into his hand. This is repeated a few
							times, then they throw their shells to the wind, scattering them, and that completes
							the ceremony of a divorce. Then they are free to go and marry whom they please.

						Some difficult problems, however, arise for missionaries to settle regarding the
							marriage affairs. Among the many kinds of mixed-up affairs on this line was that of a
							man who came to the meeting and said he desired to be saved, but that his marriage
							relations bothered him, and he did not know what to do. He said he had lived with a
							woman as his wife for a year or two, and was unable to live longer with her. Hie then
							went and lived with another woman, whom he loved, and one or two children were born to
							them. During this time the first woman gave them both considerable trouble, and
							threatened them in such a manner that they feared for the safety of their lives, she
							demanding that he come back and live with her. Finally, through fear, he went back and
							lived with the first woman, and at the time of his conversation with us was living
							with her; but she was making his life miserable, and he was anxious to live with the
							second one, but was afraid to do so, and desired to know what course he must pursue.
							He 
							
								PAHARIA MOTHER.
							
							 could receive no protection from the English government
							in court unless he would get out license according to the English laws, and be married
							according to those laws. Then if there was any trouble, he could have access to the
							court. But he was troubled to know which one it would be right for him to get a
							license for and marry in accordance with those laws. This is only one of the many
							mixed-up ways of marriage in that country.

						Among the Mohammedans the men generally have a plurality of wives. Frequently a man
							has as many as four or five wives. The custom of marriage among the Mohammedans is to
							marry at a very early age. Probably when the children are at the age of a few weeks or
							months the parents get together and make a contract of marriage. The father who has a
							daughter agrees to pay a certain dowry, or amount for the marriage of his daughter.
							This marriage is completed by a ceremony when the daughter reaches the age of about
							ten or twelve years, when she is taken to her husband, and frequently they become
							mothers at the age of eleven or twelve years. Few Mohammedans came to those
							meetings.

						In Assam the hills and mountains are torn up by earthquakes. In the year 1897 there
							was a terrible earthquake, which tore down houses in the villages and cities, tore up
							the hills and mountains, destroying the roads, and, in fact, almost wrought
							devastation in the whole country. A brother told us that in one village one hundred
							and twenty-seven persons were killed, and that as he rushed out of the house, he saw
							the ground opening, but leaping over this opening in the earth, he reached a place of
							safety. The earthquakes are so frequent that even the rocks and sides of the mountain
							were broken loose and filled up the roads winding around-the mountain where we had to
							travel. One evening 
							
								ELEPHANT RIDING.
							
							 while I was sitting by the window reading a letter,
							there came a shock of an earthquake which sounded like distant thunder. One of the
							brethren came rushing in from the other room, and said, "What is that?" We replied it
							was an earthquake.

						Cherrapoonjee is said to be the place of the heaviest rainfall in the world, there
							sometimes being five or six hundred inches of rainfall in a year.

						After closing our meeting at this place, we proceeded on our way back down the rivers
							until we reached the station where we could take the train for Darjeeling in Northern
							India.
					


					

					
						DARJEELING, NORTH INDIA.

						AT the place where we took train for the north, Brother Bailey
							went to Calcutta, while Brother Moses and I proceeded alone. Some time in the morning
							we came in sight of the Himalaya Mountains. Just before reaching them we came to some
							extensive tea-gardens. In this part of the country the soil is not so well adapted to
							raising rice. Here were to be seen boys and men riding elephants that had been trained
							to take the place of horses. In the woods and jungles on the mountains were wild
							elephants and other wild animals.

						Along the way were encampments of soldiers. When we reached the station near the foot
							of the mountains, where we were transferred to the mountain train, soldiers crowded
							into the train, some of them in the same coach with us. They were on their way to
							Tibet, as the English were then just beginning their forced march to the capital of
							Tibet. The place where we were going was less than one hundred miles from the Tibetan
							line, Tibet is a land  that has always been closed
							against the entrance of the gospel. Missionaries have never been allowed to cross its
							border without being arrested. Brother and Sister Jarvis at one time undertook to
							cross the border, but were arrested and brought back.

						Since our visit there the English, after a few months' skirmishing and a few bloody
							battles, entered the sacred capital of the Tibetans, and compelled them to make a
							treaty according to the intention of the English before their invasion. One of their
							objects was to open up a peaceable trade with that country. This will undoubtedly give
							English and American missionaries a privilege of crossing the border with some
							protection by the English government in case of disturbance. However, a missionary
							crossing the borders even now must run a great risk of losing his life.

						After reaching the foot-hills of the Himalaya Mountains, our train continued winding
							around the mountainsides, crossing deep chasms, passing along the edge of the rocky
							cliffs and over deep ravines, for almost half a day until we had reached an elevation
							of seven thousand feet, or considerable over a mile above the point where we were a
							few hours before. Here we were above the clouds, and could look out over the deep
							valleys with the clouds below us. Only a few miles from where we were, by going around
							the point of a mountain, Mount Everest could be seen. This is the highest mountain in
							the world.

						Upon our arrival at Darjeeling we met Brother Khan and Brother Mundul, who had come
							from Calcutta to look after some business, and also to aid in looking after a place to
							establish a mission work in the city. There was a slight ,drizzling rain, and the
							climate much cooler. A light overcoat and a raincoat over it only kept us comfortable,
							while at the same time in Calcutta the sun was beating down in scorching rays.

						

						
							ABOVE THE CLOUDS IN THE HIMALAYA MOUNTAINS
						

						

						The brethren had secured lodging-places for us. As Darjeeling is a great
							resorting-place for the people to flee from the hot, burning climate to the cooler
							regions, all the hotels were filled to their utmost capacity, and it was with some
							difficulty that they found lodging. However, the brethren found a native lodging-place
							for themselves, but no white person was allowed there. Afterwards they found a private
							boarding-house for me, but no natives were allowed to remain there. While the
							boarding-house was carried on to some extent on American plans, yet it was expected
							that the traveler furnish his own bedclothes. Fortunately, I had a sufficient amount
							with me.

						We were now among another class of people, who have a different religion, different
							language, and different customs. Aside from the English who resort there during the
							hot weather, the principal part of the inhabitants is people of Tibet, some of whom
							live there, while others come there to trade. They speak the Tibetan language. Brother
							Moses had spent about six months here some time previous to this, learning the
							language, consequently he was able to interpret for us. As we were to remain only
							until the next day, we were kept very busy visiting from place to place.
					

					

					

						THE TIBETAN PRAYER.

						TIBETANS are mostly Buddhists, and have many forms of religion
							different from other countries. They are quite religious, notwithstanding their
							meanness and vicious ways. There is much attention given to praying, but they have
							invented many ways to get rid of any special exertion on that line. One of their
							peculiar prayers consists of six syllables. It really consists of the Sanscrit words,
							"Mani 
							
								SITTING POSITION OF NATIVES IN NORTHIFRN INDIA.
							
							 Padme." These are between two inexpressive syllables--
							"Om" and "Hum." This is believed to have been composed by a man with reference to some
							sainted friend. "Om" is borrowed from the Hindus. It is their most sacred syllable.
							"Hum" is sometimes translated "amen."

						"Mani Padme" is said to denote the gem in the lotus. The lotus is the sacred flower
							of Oriental heathenish countries. It would read, "Om the Gem in the Lotus, Hum." It is
							not a prayer, for nothing is asked, but it may be considered an ascription of praise.
							"Whatever be its origin or meaning" says Wilson, "no other prayer used by human beings
							in any quarter of the globe is repeated so often. Every Tibetan believes it to be a
							panacea for all evil, a compendium of all knowledge, a treasury of all wisdom, a
							summary of all religion; but if you ask Buddhists to give you a reason for this
							belief, very few are able to give an intelligent reply."

						According to the most learned doctors of philosophy that are found in Tibetan
							monasteries, it is certainly addressed to their patron deity, and the real secret of
							its efficacy is in the fact that each one of its six syllables has a potent influence
							on some one of the six courses of being, that is to say, in some one of the six hinds
							of transmigration through which they believe every living individual has to pass. The
							oftener, therefore, this mystical formula is repeated, the shorter will be the time an
							individual crosses through some of these six forms of existence every one of which
							involve misery or evil. Or it may be that by repenting these, he may be able to escape
							some of the six forms of existences altogether. Strange indeed as it may appear to us,
							it is impossible to shake the faith of at Tibetan in the absolute infallible efficacy
							of his six favored mystic syllables. He repeats them, not at all as if he were praying
							in  the modern sense, but as if he were a farmer who is
							planting the best seed in the most productive soil and watering it incessantly
							according to the most scientific principles of irrigation and a bountiful harvest is
							absolutely certain to reward his efforts.

						These six syllables are muttered morning and night by every man, woman, and child
							wherever the influence of the lamas has extended. The mystic words are impressed on
							clay and sold by the lamas. They are also cut on doors, trees, monuments, stones, and
							rocks. Some of the inscriptions are of gigantic size, and can be seen at considerable
							distances. Rich and zealous Buddhists maintain at their own expense companies of lamas
							(priests) for the sole object of propagating the "Mani Padme" formula. These strange
							missionaries may be seen, chisel and hammer in hand, traversing sea, hill, dale, and
							desert-- their only mission to engrave the sacred six syllables on every rock in their
							path. The same is placed on long stone walls. This is the chief prayer; however, there
							are other prayers consisting of from one to six words.
					

					

					

						THE PRAYER-WHEELS.

						IF the prayers are written and made to revolve, they have the same
							efficacy as if they were actually repeated. The number of times the prayer-wheel is
							turned is credited as so much prayer merit stored up for the benefit of the person who
							turns the wheel. The cylinder of the wheel is generally of metal, with a prayer
							engraved on the outside, as well as written on paper and inserted inside. It is held
							in the right hand and whirled around like a child's toy by means of the handle, in the
							direction of the sun. If made 
							
								A LAMA OF TIBET WITH PRAYER WHEEL.
							
							 to revolve the other way, it would e a cause of
							demerit.

						Then again, the words of the prayer are written and printed thousands and thousands
							of times on rolls or strips of paper, and enclosed in much larger cylinders which are
							set up in temples, monasteries, passages, houses, villages, by the roadside, and in
							every possible corner for the mass of the people, who are too ignorant to read, and
							too indolent to engage in continuous oral repetition.

						As we were visiting in one of their chief temples, we saw a wheel about six feet in
							height, and as large as a barrel, which people could come and turn at their leisure. A
							bell at the top would signal each turn of the wheel. Those who had money and were too
							lazy to turn it, would hire a cheap hoy to turn it for them. There were others run by
							water-power.

						Around this temple were counted about forty prayer-flags, which were pieces of muslin
							from twelve to twenty feet long and about two feet wide, fastened to the top of bamboo
							poles upon which were printed the prayers, and every time the flags waved in the wind
							the prayers were repeated.

						During the worship the monk or priest rings his prayer-bell to call attention to the
							beings that are worshiped or to keep off evil spirits by combining the noise with the
							waving of the "dorg." The "dorg" is a metal bar about four inches long, having two
							extremities which spread out in globular form, or like small oval cages formed on
							hoops of metal. It is used to drive away evil spirits, especially in the performance
							of ceremonies and the repetition of prayer. The instrument is held between the finger
							and thumb, and waved backwards and forwards, or from side to side.

						The original "dorg" is supposed to have fallen direct 
							
								TIBETEN PRAYER FLAGS.
							
							 from Indra's heaven. Because the priesthood claim to
							wield this thunderbolt sent to them from heaven, they have a great influence and power
							over the ignorant and superstitious people. Along the streets of the cities and the
							roads and railroad, down the mountainside, here and there the prayer-flags were to be
							seen waving in the air.

						After purchasing a prayer-wheel and some other things of importance, and a piece of
							their ancient writing, we started southward.
					

					

					
						BOGRA.

						A>FTER riding the remainder of the day and that night, early next
							morning we arrived at Bogra. Here we met some of the native brethren whom we had met
							at the camp-meeting in Calcutta. They had charge of a small mission at this place and
							were working by way of handing out literature, selling Gospels, talking privately, and
							doing some public speaking in the bazaars, or market-places.

						Bogra is a district which has about forty-three hundred villages and cities. India is
							rather divided up among the missionaries, in a sense. For instance, where one
							denomination has worked, that part of the country is generally considered to be under
							control of that religious body, so far as religious rights are concerned, and other
							denominations are not supposed to encroach upon its rights. However, this is only a
							sectarian scheme for managing the work and the people. When Jesus sent forth his
							ministers, he told them to go into all the world and preach the gospel. At another
							time he said, "The world is the field," and he placed no limit to their circuit.
							Brother Khan and a few others had visited Bogra a few years before, and up to that
							time missionaries had not entered that field to open 
							
								BEGGAR MUSICIANS.
							
							 the work. The people in that country are Hindus and
							Mohammedans. The Hindus are idol-worshipers, and the Mohammedans believe in Mohammed
							instead of Christ.

						It was now Sunday, and we could only remain until the next morning; therefore we
							desired to make the best of the situation. In the afternoon we went to the bazaar, and
							there in that large open market-place by the street could be seen probably more than
							two thousand people. These were of the more common class. As the climate is very hot,
							most of these men and boys had on but little clothing. In fact, out of two thousand
							there that could be seen at one time probably not three hundred of them had any shirts
							on, but were bare from their hips up, with the exception that some of them wore
							turbans, and others a thin piece of cloth over the back of the neck, hanging down in
							front, which was worn to protect the back of the neck from the heat of the sun. It was
							not difficult here to have a large audience to listen to the singing and preaching. At
							any place near by within three minutes a large crowd could be gathered together. The
							brethren separated, two or three going together to different places, and preached the
							Word to the people for some time.

						Application was made to the authorities to secure the use of the city hall, which was
							a well-built structure of English design, and the hall also well seated. Special
							invitation was sent to the governor, the city authorities, and most of the influential
							people of the city. After meeting the class of people that were assembled in the
							market-place, we were wondering what kind of an audience would be assembled at night;
							but upon our arrival at the hall, at a glance we saw quite a different class of
							people. The hall was well filled with the high-class Hindus, who were quite well
							dressed, and most of them educated.

						

						
							A BHUTIA LADY.
						

						

						At this place they speak the Bengali language, and while I presented the gospel in
							the English language, Brother Khan interpreted. Services had scarcely begun when the
							entire audience suddenly rose to their feet. At a glance we saw the cause of this
							sudden commotion. Some dignitaries were just entering the room, and this was a due
							reverence or obeisance to them. They were native government officers. The procession
							was led by the governor and the chief officers and magistrates of the district of
							Bogra. They came forward and were seated close in front of me where I was
							speaking.

						At the time of their entrance I was beginning to explain the difference between the
							worship of idols and that of worshiping the Lord, and also set forth the power of
							Christ and the benefits received through believing on him. Notwithstanding the
							presence of the dignitaries and their magistrative power and influence, we did not
							fail to declare the whole counsel of God. The Lord poured out his Spirit upon us, and
							the name of the Lord was glorified. The gospel had never been preached in that hall
							before, nor had this class of people assembled in Bogra before to listen to the
							gospel. If any of them had ever heard it preached, it was while they were in some
							other part of the country.

						At the close of the discourse, the governor came forward, grasped my hand, and
							introduced himself with an expression of delight in hearing the gospel preached. He
							then introduced us to the other officers, and we spent some time in conversation. He
							begged us to remain longer, and promised they would come out and hear us preach; but
							our arrangements were such that only one day could be spent at that place, as I was
							soon to return to America. Early next morning a servant came walking up to the
							mission-house with a large tray upon his head, rounded up  with the most beautiful, luscious, and delicious fruits the city could afford,
							together with a note from the governor to me stating that he desired me to accept this
							present as a token of his appreciation and gratitude for the services of the previous
							night. The outlook is favorable for a good work to be wrought in that part of the
							country, if those who go there are filled with the power and Spirit of God.

						About ten o'clock Monday, we bade farewell to the people of Bogra, and proceeded
							westward twenty-five miles to Santahar, where we were to change cars for Calcutta.
							Here we met two brethren who also were at the Calcutta meeting. A few weeks previously
							they had rented a little house to begin mission work at that place, and distribute
							tracts to people who were traveling to the resorting-places of the north. One of these
							brethren was the one who was deaf in one ear for a number of years, and was instantly
							healed during the camp-meeting in May. After spending a short time here, our train
							arrived, and we were soon on our way to Calcutta, where we arrived and found the
							brothers and sisters praising the Lord and working for the rescue of perishing
							souls.
					

					

					
						VISIT TO LAHORE.

						SOON after our arrival at Calcutta, we were again at the Home, at
							which place we remained a day or two, during which time we held some more meetings. In
							the midst of the discourse one day we noticed a gentleman whom we had not seen in the
							meetings before, but who appeared to sanction all that was being said, and was highly
							pleased with the teaching of the Word. At the close of the service one of the brethren
							asked if we knew this man. We replied that  his face
							seemed familiar, but we were unable to remember his name. The brother said, "This is
							the missionary of the Church of England who was very sick the night you went and
							prayed for him after meeting during the camp-meeting." He told us that the Lord had
							healed him. He was now well and strong, and said that he was determined to walk in all
							the light of the Word of God.

						One of the brethren said, "We have heard from many who sent in requests for prayer by
							letter and otherwise during the camp-meeting, and all that we have heard from were
							healed." One boy living two or three hundred miles away was healed of cholera, and
							there were many other marvelous healings.

						As the time was nearing for me to leave India, there were a few more places to visit.
							The next place was Lahore in Northwest India, about twelve hundred miles from
							Calcutta. About dark one evening we left home for the railway station, about two miles
							and a half distant. Upon our arrival at the station Brother Khan, who accompanied me
							on this trip, purchased the tickets while I remained in the carriage with the baggage.
							As the train was not to start for about fifteen minutes, we had sufficient time to
							secure a compartment at one end of a coach, which for a time we had alone. After
							entering the car Brother Khan soon discovered that he did not have the railway
							tickets. He searched his pockets and all around about the place, but could not find
							them. We did not know whether they had been lost or some one had acted as pickpocket.
							The railway officer was informed. He told us to go to the booking-office and if
							possible find out the number of the tickets, and said the guards would be on the
							lookout in case any one handed in that number.

						We then returned to the car not knowing just what to ITSTT TO IIAHORE. do, nor where to continue the search, as it was now nearly time
							for the train to start. We knelt down in our compartment and asked the Lord to direct
							us to the place where the tickets could be found, as they had cost us over thirteen
							rupees each. The prayer was short, but we had agreed according to Mat. 18:19,
							remembering the words of Jesus: "Again I say unto you, That if two of you shall agree
							on earth as touching anything that ye shall ask, it shall be done for them of my
							Father which is in heaven. For where two or three are gathered together in my name,
							there am I in the midst, of them." We realized that we were sufficient in number to
							claim that promise, and arose from our knees believing that God would direct us. We
							passed through the station across an open courtyard to the street, to an open
							driveway, near where the carriage had stood before we left it. Brother Khan went to
							speak to an officer about it, and we all came together at a place near by. The street
							lights were shining sufficiently at the place that as we looked down at our feet we
							there saw the tickets. We went to our car again, and knelt in prayer and thanked the
							Lord for his direction and answer to prayer.

						We were soon on our twelve-hundred-mile journey. The heat was quite intense. In the
							afternoon of the second day we arrived at Lahore. This is a city of one hundred and
							seventy thousand inhabitants. We were told that in the city and immediate vicinity the
							week before over fifteen thousand people died of the plague and cholera. This place is
							in what is called the Punjab district. This was the district of which we read in the
							paper just before landing in India that over thirty-four thousand people had died of
							the plague the week before, and we were told that there had been an average of over
							thirty-four thousand a week to_ die of plague ever since our arrival in India. This is
								 one of the hottest places in India. The mercury
							frequently rises to about one hundred and twenty degrees in the shade, but a
							temperature of one hundred degrees in Calcutta would be more oppressive than one
							hundred and twenty in Lahore, as the heat is more damp and oppressive in Calcutta.

						Upon our arrival at Lahore, Brother Robert Jarvis met us at the station, and we were
							soon in a carriage on our way to the Faith Missionary Home conducted by himself and
							wife for the relief and education of famine children. The Home is in the limits of the
							corporation of the city, about two miles and a half from the station; but is beyond
							that part of the city which is closely occupied by houses. They have a very beautiful
							location. At the present time it is almost like living in the country. Their place
							consists of several acres, and is surrounded by a wall a few feet high. In this
							inclosure are other buildings, most of which consist of brick walls with thatched
							roofs, made of some kind of straw or grass. Most of the houses in the villages
							throughout India are covered in this way, the roof being from six inches to a foot in
							thickness.

						At the Faith Home are about one hundred and seventy children that have been rescued
							during the famine. Most of them at the time were in a starving condition. Some were
							near the point of death. Their parents had died from starvation, and they were left as
							helpless wanderers throughout a land of famine and starvation to pick their living as
							best they could. Some of these children had wandered about for a few hundred miles in
							this critical condition, and it seemed by the direction of Providence in some way
							found this home, where they are fed, clothed, and are being educated and taught the
							way of salvation.

						Among the children were some Mohammedans, Hindus, and other idol-worshipers; but now
							all are being taught the 
							
								AN INDIAN BLACKSMITH SHOP, LAHORE, INDIA.
							
							
								NATIVES MAKING CLOTHES AT ORPHANS' HOME.
							
							 evils of idol-worship, and are taught the way of
							salvation. Some have accepted Jesus as their Savior, and received a real change of
							heart, and a few of the older boys or young men go out on missionary tours, preaching
							the gospel. While we were there three of them who had been out for a month or two
							returned, and were received by Brother and Sister Jarvis with much rejoicing. They
							reported that God had wonderfully worked with them in the villages, and that at one
							place over one hundred people had accepted the gospel, and were desiring to be
							baptized, and quite a number at other places in like manner.

						The religious teaching here is undenominational, anti-sectarian. They are taught the
							same as Christ and the apostles taught-- that when a person is converted and receives
							a change of heart, this spiritual birth places him into the church of God without any
							further ceremony. This is the same church that Jesus said he would build. Mat. 16:18.
							Here as well as at other places where we had been in the various parts of India and
							held meetings, we found people believing and teaching the gospel as set forth in the
							New Testament, outside of all creeds and humanly-organized churches. We found brothers
							and sisters in Christ with whom we could feel the fellowship of the Spirit the same as
							in America and other countries, who are bound together by the love of God instead of
							by the discipline of some creed.

						On Sunday morning we had the privilege of being in the Sunday-school with those
							children, and of afterwards speaking to them publicly in their meeting, which they
							very much enjoyed. The Punjab language was spoken here. We spoke in English, and one
							of the native instructors in the school very willingly interpreted for us. The
							children sat in rows on mats on the floor before us, and were very  attentive and glad to hear us tell about the gospel of
							Jesus Christ and of what was done through the power of the lord in other parts of
							India and in other countries.

						After the service with the children another service was held, and in the evening the
							workers and teachers and some 
								SAWING LUMBER IN INDIA.
							 of the older children who were saved gathered together in a room, where we
							had an ordinance service in accordance with the thirteenth chapter of St. John and
							Luke 22: 14-20. At this service a native lady teacher and missionary interpreted while
							we spoke publicly. They were all very much  encouraged
							by our coming. Quite a good work is being done at this missionary home, and the
							outlook is that a number of those children will at some time go forth as missionaries.
							The work is supported by free-will offerings. Quite a number of the children are
							supported by people in America at the rate of twenty dollars each year. Any one can
							send twenty dollars a year and have a child selected as his own to support, and thus
							provide for the fatherless. Those thus taking a child feel a great responsibility by
							way of support, and also in praying that God may raise up the child to a life of
							usefulness, and God will surely reward those who are helping on these lines. While
							there a number of children were brought before us, and we were told the names of some
							of the supporters in America. Almost all of them are bright-looking children. Some
							were still suffering from famine sores, and prayer was offered for their relief.

						When Brother and Sister Jarvis took their stand upon the Word of God against sectism,
							quite a number of the supporters ceased to send in any further support for the
							children; but God honored their faith and trueness to him, and began to raise up
							others to supply the needs. On account of a recent fire destroying some of their
							buildings and the contents, and new buildings to erect, and another famine
							threatening, they have been in quite close circumstances at times, with real testing
							times for their faith.
					

					

					

						THE LAND OF FAMINE.

						CERTAIN portions of India have always been productive, and have
							never been visited by famine; but even where the soil is the most productive little is
							known about farming.  A large portion of the country,
							which, if properly arranged might be made into beautiful, productive farms, with
							vine-yards, orchards, and fields of waving grain, is as yet producing only a little
							rice, and here and there a few vegetables, and other things which require but little
							work. They plow with the old crooked wooden plows, and seem to know nothing about the
							modern improvements of other lands, and no doubt most of them do not care to know much
							about such improved methods. There are vast territories of land in India which for
							years have been almost barren wastes. Parts of it sometimes are quite productive for a
							few years, and people settle over its vast area, making their homes, only to meet with
							the disappointments and horrors of famine.

						There have been a number of famines at various times, but in the year 1897 was one of
							the worst known. On account of the lack of rain for many months, the country was
							devoid of vegetation, the rivers and streams dried up, and people died from hunger and
							thirst on every hand. Starvation stared every one in the face throughout the famine
							district. Now and then some had sufficient food for a time; but when there ceased to
							be any more water, they could not live on food alone. At other places there was some
							water to be had, but no food; while in other districts there was neither water nor
							food, and thousands dying daily. Rescue stations were established by the government
							and humane societies at different places along the railway stations. While many of the
							people came to these places for relief, yet thousands of them died along the way.
							Others managed to reach the place, but were so exhausted through starvation that they
							died soon after their arrival; nevertheless many were rescued, and survived through
							the famine.

						

						This attracted the attention of the world. People of America and other countries sent
							food and money. Notwithstanding that some agents who were greedy money sharks applied
							much of it to their own use, yet there were others who sacrificed their lives in
							helping those famishing people. There were many who faithfully dealt out the food to
							the best of their ability. We here quote from a notice published in 1897 in the Foreign Mission Journal written by an eye-witness, who says:

						"I have had the melancholy satisfaction of visiting the famine-stricken in the
							extemporized Poor Sheds, and the Relief Works at Narsingpur and Jabalpur. Language
							fails to express the extreme want and wretchedness here witnessed. The shrunken and
							shriveled forms of young and old tell the awful story of slow starvation extended over
							months, during which the sufferers obtained only enough food to prolong their
							sufferings. Hundreds of thousands have died and tens of thousands more will die as the
							result of this awful famine.

						"We are admitted to the enclosure by the gatekeeper, and then the sights and sounds
							and smells around very soon take off our thoughts from the neat-looking structures. Of
							course, we are the center of attraction, and those who are able to, and have
							sufficient energy left them, soon crowd around. I try to avoid writing 'sensational
							accounts,' but in order to be truthful I must say that I was not half prepared for the
							sights which met my eyes, nor was my companion. Some poor people lay on their backs on
							the bare ground utterly unconscious, an occasional moan the only sign of life; these
							were newly admitted cases. Children with the very look which might have been expected
							in their grandparents stood naked before us. They all had earthen vessels in which
							they received their food twice a  day. In the center of
							the enclosure was the hospital, which is said to be visited daily by the apothecary of
							the town. From the register I found that one hundred and ninety-five deaths had
							occurred in this poorhouse during December."
					

					

					

						AN ADDRESS IN BEHALF OF THE SUFFERERS.

						AT the auditorium in Chicago, May 3, 1897, an India famine relief
							meeting was held in which Miss Margaret W. Loitch of Ceylon gave the following
							address:

						Dear Friends: I bring you loving greetings from your brothers and sisters on the
							other side of the world. I think it is true that the people in India are our own
							brothers and sisters: for we who live in this world live as it were in one big house:
							the carpet of this house is green grass, the roof of this house is blue sky and bright
							stars, and the father of this house is God; for "have we not all one Father," and are
							we not therefore brothers and sisters?

						Perhaps it would make the people of India seem a little more real to you if I were to
							sing a Christian hymn in one of the India languages. In thousands of India homes
							to-night, fathers and mothers will be lifting up their hearts and voices to God the
							Father of us all, and imploring him to have mercy upon them and upon their land, and
							to touch the hearts of their brothers and sisters in other lands to send relief. In
							the name of our common Father, I bring their cry to you.

						
							"The cry of myriads as of one,
							The voiceless silence of despair
							Is eloquent with awful prayer.
							Oh, by the love that loved us all
							Wake heart and mind to hear their cry,
							help us to help them, lest they die."
						

						

						
							FAMINE SUFFERERS IN INDIA.
						

						

						You have heard that according to government statistics 80,000,000 of people are in
							the famine-stricken districts in India. The famine is so widespread that the
							government has been obliged to institute famine relief in every province in India. At
							the present time there are 3,500,000 people receiving government aid, and the number
							on the government relief work is increasing at the rate of 250,000 weekly, and will
							continue to increase during the next two months. The people of Great Britian have
							subscribed to the Mansion House fund over $2,000,000, but all that the British
							Government and the British people can do is utterly inadequate to meet the
							unparalleled need, and unless the benevolent and Christian nations of the world unite
							to help, it is estimated that 10,000,000 of people may die in India before the end of
							this year.

						At a conservative estimate, 20,000 are dying daily. Since we entered this building
							doubtless hundreds have died of hunger in India. They are dying in their remote
							villages, dying on the roadsides, dying in the city streets-- homeless, hopeless,
							shelterless. A missionary from the heart of the famine district writes, "Near this
							station the country is white with the bones of those who have already perished."
							Multitudes are helpless unless help reaches them from outside.

						And yet these suffering people are within our reach. Money given in this country can
							be cabled out to India within a few hours, and within forty-eight hours food purchased
							with that money can be placed in the very hands of the people who are in need of
							it.

						Scattered all through those famine districts are over four hundred American
							missionaries, graduates of the best colleges, seminaries and medical schools of this
							country; men and women who know the language and who have  lived among the people many years. There they are ready to be the almoners of our
							bounty. Already $30,000 contributed by the people of this country has been cabled out
							by the Christian Herald and placed in the hands of those
							missionaries. And now with the means at their disposal they are giving famine relief
							work to those who can work. They are feeding gratuitously the aged and the sick. They
							are gathering thousands of little children into their orphanages and homes. Yes, some
							of those missionary ladies have received into their own homes as many as two hundred
							emaciated children, and with their own hands they are administering medicine and food.
							Those missionaries know that one year of brave work at this time will be worth more to
							India than ten years of work in ordinary times. They know that one dollar given now
							will be worth ten dollars later on. They realize the marvelous opportunity, and they
							feel the responsibility.

						Those brave soldiers are at the forefront of the battle, fighting famine and fever
							and despair; and they lift longing eyes to us and cry out, "Help! send us help for the
							love of God." What will you answer them? Will you say, "Go on. The people of America
							will stand behind you. Corn and money in abundance will be sent to you?" Is this the
							cheering message you will return to them? Or will you say, "Hold on. The people of
							America are too poor to help at this time?" Is this the cowardly message you will send
							to them?

						The people of America are well able to help. This is not a poverty-stricken country.
							The people of this country expended last year $22,000,000 for chewing-gum,
							$400,000,000 for amusements, $600,000,000 for jewelry, $800,000,000 for tobacco,
							$1,400,000,000 for strong drink. By the abundance which God has bestowed upon us, is
							he not calling  upon us to share with those who are in
							need? I am told that in some parts of the West, in the corn-growing regions, farmers
							have in their cribs the corn of last year, and the corn of the year before that, and
							the corn of three years ago. In some places corn is selling for ten cents a bushel,
							and they are burning it for fuel. But in India, in my poor India, the cheapest grain,
							a kind of coarse millet, is selling for $1.25 a bushel, and heat is selling for $2.25
							a bushel, while the wages of an able-bodied workman on the Government Relief works is
							equal to only four cents a day of your money.

						Surely, by this famine on the one hand and this abundance on the other, God is
							speaking to them and to us. "When thy judgments are abroad in the earth, the
							inhabitants of the world will learn righteousness." Oh, may India hear God's voice at
							this time! And God is speaking to America by the very abundance which he has given us.
							By the need with which we are confronted, is he not trying to draw out our hearts to
							our brothers? God is trying to save America from luxury and greed and selfishness and
							isolation. If we will pour out of our abundance, God will pour into our hearts his
							blessings. "Is not this the fast that I have chosen, ... to deal thy bread to the
							hungry? ... when thou seest the naked that thou cover him; and that thou hide not
							thyself from thine own flesh?"

						If we could only see the sights which our missionaries are seeing in these days,
							surely our hearts would be touched. What do our missionaries see? Whole villages
							deserted. In those far interior villages, the poor people have been waiting, with that
							marvelous patience of Asiatics, hoping against hope that help would reach them. As
							food became scarcer they would only cat one meal a day, and then only one meal in two
							days, and then only one meal in three  days, and then
							they would begin to starve. Weakened by famine and fever they would set out for the
							Government Relief works, twenty miles or one hundred miles distant. But alas! in many
							cases they would die on the way.

						The emaciation is something almost inconceivable. You will see grown men in India
							weighing only fifty pounds. You will see little children five years of age weighing
							only ten pounds. Children are crying with hunger, but there are no tears in their
							eyes; the fountain of tears is dried up. As you pass through the streets you hear the
							wail of these starving children crying, "O mother, I'm hungry! I'm hungry, mother. O
							mother, mother!" In the cities and towns where the famine-stricken multitude
							congregate, the moaning cry goes up all through the day and continues until midnight.
							Those who remain, stretch out their weak, trembling hands, and with looks of agonizing
							entreaty ask, "Is there no help for us?"

						And fathers and mothers have begun to sell their children for bread. Children are
							being sold in India for thirty cents. Yes, in some places for fifteen cents. It is not
							because the fathers and mothers do not love their children. I know the Indian people.
							Those fathers and mothers love their children as much as you love your darlings. They
							kiss and embrace them with passionate tenderness again and again before they part with
							them; but they are selling them because they can not bear to see them die before their
							eyes, and because they hope that those who purchase them may feed them. These poor
							people are in despair. Friends, you and I do not know what despair is. Oh, that God
							would pour into our hearts some of his divine compassion, so that looking up into his
							face we might say to him, "O Father, it may be only a little that I can do for these
							suffering ones, but by thy grace it will be my 
							
								VICTIMS OF THE FAMINE READY FOR CREMATION.
							
							 best, my uttermost. By thy grace I will do it at once."
							Oh, may God hear that prayer from every heart in this audience who owes
							allegiance.

						Think how far a little money will go in India, one dollar will keep a person alive
							three months. Five dollars will keep a family alive for three months. I have no doubt
							that there are some persons in this audience who can write a pledge to-night for
							$100.00 or $590.00, and so could save one hundred lives or five hundred lives in India
							during the next three months.

						I was speaking recently to some children in an orphanage in Massachusetts. They said
							one to another, "What can we do?" They went in a body to the matron and begged of her
							to give them only plain food and no dessert for three months, and take the money thus
							saved and send it to these hungry children. Did they do too much? Was it unreasonable
							for them to go without dessert in order that those other children who had nothing at
							all might have something? Oh, that God would give us the childlike heart that joyfully
							makes sacrifices, and delights to obey! If you and I were willing to make similar
							sacrifices, there is not one of us who could not save at least one life in India. Some
							could save a whole family, some could save a village, perhaps some could save a whole
							town. Have you ever in all your lifetime saved a human life? Perhaps you have wronged
							or harmed some life, perhaps you have brought sorrow to somebody, but have you
							actually saved a life If not, here is your opportunity.

						We are confident that the Chicago people will contribute one shipload of corn, one
							hundred and fifty thousand bushels for the starving people in India. I have been told
							that there are persons in this audience who could give five hundred dollars and never
							feel it. Then in God's name  give a thousand dollars and
							feel it. 0 friends, let us give to-night what will cost us real sacrifice. Let us make
							this the best, the most fruitful year of our lives; for it may be the last year that
							some of us will live. And when we stand in the radiant presence of Jesus Christ,
							perhaps he will say to us, "I was an hungered, and ye gave me meat. ... Inasmuch as ye
							have done it unto one of the least of these, ye have done it unto me." This will be
							your reward.
					

					

					

						HOME FOR INDIA'S WIDOWS.

						AFTER leaving Lahore we had a trip of about twelve hundred miles
							to Bombay. Along the way were to be seen long-tailed monkeys running wild, climbing
							mango-trees, playing about the branches, eating fruit. These monkeys were very large,
							with tails sufficient in length to reach to their heads, when thrown forward. There
							were also many storks standing in the shallow water, sometimes as many as twenty of
							them together. Parrots were seen flying about from place to place.

						Arriving at Bombay, we called to see a native brother who had been reading the Gospel Trumpet for some time, and who received us with very much
							kindness. After spending a few hours with him, having prayer, and expounding the Word,
							we continued our journey to Poona, about two hundred miles distant. This is where
							Pandita Ramabai at one time had her home for India's widows.

						Upon our arrival at that place in the evening, we found that she was living at
							Kedgeon, a few hours' ride from this place, where she had her entire work. However, as
							it was late in the evening, we went to her former home in Poona, and found the place
							entirely vacated, with the exception  of a man and his
							wife, who were left in charge of the buildings. We were here cordially received, and a
							meal was prepared for us about ten o'clock at night. Here they spoke the M1arata
							language. They could also understand a little English, and Brother Khan could
							understand a little of the language spoken; therefore we managed to converse quite
							freely.

						During the time that we were eating she sat in the room with us, and seemed pleased
							to talk regarding salvation. We noticed that she was in considerable pain on account
							of one of her eyes. We told her the Lord was able to remove the pain, and if she had
							sufficient faith would also restore her sight, for she was unable to see anything
							whatever with that eye. After finishing our meal we had prayer for her, and asked God
							to take away the pain and touch her with his healing power. The pain immediately left
							her, for which she began to praise the Lord; and while sitting there rejoicing because
							of the divine touch of his healing power, she suddenly said, "I can see the light from
							the lamp." She ran over to where her husband was to tell him of what the Lord had
							done, and soon they both came and were very thankful to know that the Lord had so
							manifested his power. Although she did not get her perfect sight restored, yet she had
							a sufficient touch of divine power to increase her faith and enable her to begin the
							search of the Word. We learned also of some things standing in the way of their
							spiritual enjoyment and full manifestation of the power of God, which we trust they
							were able to remove afterwards.

						The next morning we went to Kedgeon. Here we were met at the railroad station by some
							one from the Home of Ramabai. The conveyance to this Home was a bullock cart, a
							two-wheeled vehicle to which two bullocks were 
							
								A RECKLA FOR TRAVELING IN INDIA.
							
							 hitched. In this country most of the traveling is done
							in bullock-carts. They are not the slow oxen of America, but start out in a brisk
							trot, almost like horses.

						We were soon at the place where this little village of houses for the widows is
							established. The houses are quite well built of stone and brick walls, with tiling
							roof, and now and then one with thatched roof. This includes large buildings for
							school and religious purposes. There are about seventeen hundred widows here, ranging
							in age from eight to fifty years. Most of them are from ten to twenty years of age.
							Those who are too old to go to school, work on the farm and do other necessary work.
							The children also are many of them given necessary employment of some kind. There is
							in connection with the work an establishment with looms and other machinery for making
							cloth.

						Ramabai was at one time married to a native government officer, and she had, being a
							high-caste Hindu, the privilege of education to some extent. She knew the awful
							oppression of the Hindu widows. Until a few years ago it was the custom when a man
							died, and it was expected, at the time of his cremation, or burning of his body, that
							the wife would rush into the flames and perish. The English government, however, put a
							stop to that practise, but the treatment of the widows continued to be very severe.
							They were looked upon as being the cause of the death of the husband, and his friends
							gave them the worst of treatment. It has been customary for such a widow to receive
							only one scanty meal a day, and then be forced to do the drudgery work and meet with
							the persecutions and sufferings from her opposers. Immediately after her husband's
							death her hair is cut short, and she is looked upon as a vile wretch and treated as
							such.

						Ramabai, knowing of these things, and she herself 
							having become a Christian woman of great faith in God, determined to do what she could
							to relieve the oppressed widows of the land. She began her work by praying God to
							provide a place and inmates for that purpose. She soon had charge of a few rescued
							widows, and in answer to prayer God provided a place for their keeping. She continued
							asking for more, and more widows came, and larger places were provided for their
							keeping, which continued to increase, and now she has over seventeen hundred of them,
							with comfortable houses and Home with schools and instructors, where they can be cared
							for and relieved from all those bitter oppressions of their enemies. Her work is
							carried on by free-will offerings. Her aim has been to lead these widows to Christ and
							to forsake their idols and idolatrous worship. While her work is unsectarian and she
							realizes the evils of sectism, yet, at the same time, she allows ministers of any and
							every denomination to occupy the pulpit.

						As we had had some correspondence in years past, and as she had read some of my
							books, she was quite anxious for an interview. She spent about five minutes in
							conversation with us in the morning, but being very busy, said she would see us later.
							She desired that we give a talk to the widows. At four o'clock over twelve hundred of
							them were gathered together, and were very much interested. After speaking to them for
							some time, Brother Khan followed with a short talk. While he was talking Ramabai's
							daughter, who was the superintendent of the school, arose and went out. Soon after the
							close of the service we were called to the dining-room, and there sat down upon a
							board, which was especially arranged as a seat, where we were eating a meal of rice
							and curry. Ramabai coming, sat down by my side to continue the conversation begun in
							the  morning. We had scarcely begun the conversation
							when some one came in hurriedly and said her daughter was thrown from a horse, and bad
							her arm broken. This ended our conversation. She had to go and care for her daughter.
							As we were on our way to the railway station, we met them, but the doctor insisted on
							hurrying to the house; therefore we had no time for further communication. After
							reaching the station we went directly to Calcutta, where we arrived Sunday night, June
							13.
					

					

					

						HINDU IDOL-WORSHIP.

						THE Hindus being worshipers of idols, we were here enabled to see
							idolatry in its full sense. We made two or three special trips to their place of
							sacrifice. It was then that we could more fully than ever understand some of the
							teachings of St. Paul wherein he referred to idolatry and the worshiping of idols in
							various forms. In the stores and at other places we had seen small idols of different
							kinds for sale, and while riding along through the country had seen here and there a
							small shed or temple with large idols to be worshiped; but now we were brought in
							direct contact with the worship itself.

						As we were passing along the narrow streets near the place of sacrifice, here and
							there were beggars lying in the streets in the hot sun and imploring alms from the
							many visitors who passed along the way. Farther along were hermits. Some of them were
							sitting under a shelter, with no clothing on except a piece of cloth around the hips,
							having ashes thrown over the body and upon their heads. Some of them had hair about
							eight or ten inches long, which was matted and twisted together and made to stand  up straight or out in a tangled mass in every direction,
							giving them a hideous appearance. There were Hindu guides insisting upon showing us
							all the places of interest; but from past experience we knew that the principal thing
							they were after was what in other countries was called 
								AN INDIAN HERMIT.
							 "backshish," "tips," and such like, or, in other words, they wanted money
							for their services. As there was little reliance to be placed in what they said, we
							did not care for their services. They would point to one hermit and say, "That man has
							been sitting there seven years"; to another  and say,
							"He has been there night and day for ten years." At least, their hair looked as if it
							had not been combed for a number of years, and their bodies were in a very filthy
							condition. These hermits hope to gain great mercy, favor, and future honors by their
							deprivations in this life. It was sad to behold them in their awful deluded
							condition.

						We had not gone much farther until we came to an assembly where there were some large
							idols. People were gathered about a pool of water on the inside of a temple, which
							water came from the Ganges River, and was considered holy water. Here they brought
							flowers and some green leaves, and put them in the water and threw some of them on the
							idol, and threw holy water upon it, while Crying over some words in their own
							language, which we could not understand.

						A little farther along was a place of sacrifice. A bell would ring every few minutes,
							and then there was a speedy arrangement with some one to act in the capacity of a
							priest. Goats were brought there to be offered as a sacrifice to the idols. Most of
							those which were killed, were about half grown. One of the priests would take a goat,
							put its head in a place prepared for that purpose; and when it was securely fastened,
							another one would take a knife-shaped axe and with one stroke sever its head. Just
							before the execution the goat would bleat in the most pitiable manner. The priest
							received five annas for the execution, and also the head of the goat was to belong to
							him. There was a long row of heads that had been severed from the bodies. The bodies
							were taken and offered to idols, and then either sold or taken home by the one who
							offered them. We saw a buffalo that had also just been sacrificed.

						

						
							A HINDU DEITY.
						

						

						People came to this place in great numbers; and as the waters of the Ganges flowed
							by, they would go to the water's edge to a place where there were steps leading down
							in the water. There men, women, and children would go down into the water and wash
							away their sins, as they supposed. While some seemed to perform these acts with great
							sincerity, others did it in as formal a way as many of the people in America perform
							their religious rites in "doing" their Christian religion.
					

					

					
						SECLUSION OF VWCMEN.

						THE women of India, generally speaking, are not allowed the same
							privileges as men. In many parts of the country both Mohammedans and Hindus,
							especially the higher castes, generally keep their women secluded. Many of the
							Mohammedan women are kept shut up in a dark room almost throughout their entire
							lifetime. If it becomes necessary for them to travel, they are securely wrapped in
							their garments in such a manner that no one can see any part of their bodies. Not even
							the face is exposed to view. In some cases a small place of network is left for them
							to look through in order to see to walk about from place to place. But as Christianity
							and civilization are making inroads among them, there is being quite a change among
							some of them.

						When a daughter is born into a family, at a very early age the father tries to make
							arrangements for her marriage. Sometimes when she is only a few weeks old the
							arrangements are completed for her marriage; and the father is considered very
							unfortunate if he fails to have his daughters married by the time they reach the age
							of eight or ten years. He is obliged to give a dowry, or large sum of money or
							property, according to his abilities and the arrangements  with the father of the one who is to be her husband. When she has become about
							eight, ten, or twelve years of age, there is a completion of the marriage; the
							ceremony said, and the necessary performances concerning the completion of the
							marriage. The husband is not allowed to see his wife until after this last ceremony is
							performed. Then he takes her to his home. In many respects the Hindu marriages are
							much the same. The wife is taken to her husband's home with a great procession,
							accompanied with music and considerable pomp.

						Among some classes the women are allowed to go about the streets as freely as the
							men, with their faces exposed to view. In some parts of India, especially in the
							smaller villages and in the country, the women have a good deal of freedom. In all
							parts of the country the women are great lovers of ornaments. We have seen them with
							as hi1gh as fourteen good-sized rings in their ears, and as many bracelets on their
							wrists and arms, and many rings on their fingers and toes and above their ankles, and
							ornaments about their necks. Besides these they have a hole through the side of the
							nose, with a large ornament, and sometimes, especially with smaller girls, a piece of
							jewelry hangs down from the nose to the bottom of the upper lip. They dress generally
							in a winding-sheet made from several yards of white cloth, with one end thrown over
							the head as a head-covering.

						Men and women chew "pan," which consists of a number of ingredients, and used in a
							similar way as tobacco is used. When it is chewed, the juice and saliva become red
							like blood. In some parts of the country something else is put with it, giving it a
							dark color, and it presents a very filthy appearance. One part of the Indian pipe is
							made of a cocoanut-shell, with a small hole near the top on the side, 
							
								A HINDU GIRL WITH ORNAMENTS.
							
							 through which the smoke is drawn out by placing the
							mouth on the shell over it. In the middle, at the top, a large hollow stem, or pipe,
							about twelve or fifteen inches in length is placed, one end of it extending to the
							bottom of the cocoanut-shell. The shell is partly filled with water. .At the top of
							the pipe-stem is placed a little earthen vessel, which contains the tobacco and a
							piece of charcoal.

						In the stores, shops, dining-rooms, and many times in the private dwellings, are fans
							called a "punkah," which consists of a frame from eight to twelve feet in length and
							twelve to eighteen inches in width, with a piece of cloth in the frame, also with a
							fringe of paper hanging below. This swings from the ceiling by means of a rope, to
							which are fastened ropes or wires which pass through the walls to the outside where a
							servent pulls it back and forth to create a breeze for the comfort of those within. In
							large dining-rooms there is generally one of these fans to each table, and generally
							the fastenings are arranged so that one man on the outside can work all of them at one
							time.

						The rainy season in India generally begins about the first day of May, and lasts
							until September. It is generally very hot, especially for some time before the rainy
							season begins, and ofttimes very oppressive during the rainy season and for some time
							afterwards. The rain at times comes down in torrents; at times to such an extent that
							the water in some of the streets of Calcutta will be two or three feet deep. In the
							winter the weather becomes rather chilly, yet few houses have arrangements for heating
							the rooms. On the average house, even in the cities, there are no chimneys. The smoke
							from the cooking is expected to find its way out through either the roof or the open
							door.
					

					

					
						THE GREAT BANYAN TREE-- NEAR CALCUTTA.
					

					

					
						THE GREAT BANYAN-TREE.

						ABOUT six miles from Calcutta and down the Ganges River, at one
							place where we went, is a tree which we feel is worthy of notice, and which would
							surely make a pleasant place for a large camp-meeting or place of resort. This is the
							noted tree of India. We noticed that the government had placed a sign concerning its
							inspection in the year 1900, at which time it was measured, and the following report
							given at that date. It was said to be one hundred and thirty-one years old.
							Circumference five and one-half feet from the ground, measuring around the border of
							the limbs, was nine hundred and thirty-eight feet; the trunk of the main body of the
							tree was fifty-one feet. The height was eighty-five feet. There were four hundred and
							sixty-four aerial roots. The limbs which grow out of the main body of t!e tree have
							smaller branches, which grow downward until the ground is reached, then these take
							root and grow, and seem to form a body which holds up the limbs as they continue to
							grow larger, and thus they have increased in number and spread out until it has grown
							to be something enormous. In March, 1904, a portion of the main body of this tree fell
							to the ground. However, it did not seem to affect the greater part of this great
							tree.
					

					

					

						THE FAREWELL MEETING.

						ARRANGEMENTS were made for me to start home on the 21st of June,
							going on the steamship Lightning from Calcutta to Hong-Kong, China.
							Tickets were procured at missionary rates to San Francisco for seven hundred and ten
							rupees.

						

						
							UNDER THE GREAT BANYAN TREE.
						

						

						The brothers and sisters at the Home appointed a farewell meeting, at which, aside
							from the regular prayers offered, some appropriate songs composed for the occasion
							were sung with considerable feeling, and then came the parting farewell greetings. It
							seemed almost as hard to leave India as it was to leave America a few months before;
							for there were many precious brothers and sisters scattered throughout that land, who
							had many expressions of their love and gratitude on account of our visit to that
							country, and in their farewell talks desired especially that on my return home I would
							use my influence in stirring up the hearts of others to come to that dark land and
							help them along in the gospel way.

						On the morning of the 21st of June, all things having been arranged, quite a number
							of the native brothers and sisters, also our entire company, went to the place of the
							boat-landing on the river Ganges to give me a last farewell as I departed from the
							shores of India. It was a very Touching time. Long after the cable was loosed I could
							see them stand upon the shore waving their handkerchiefs while I answered with a last
							farewell to India, with a prayer that God would keep his own true to him and use them
							to his glory.
					

					

					

						HOMEWARD EOUND.

						WHEN the steamship Lightning loosed the cable
							and sailed down the Ganges River, we had scarcely lost sight of Calcutta when they
							anchored for a few hours. Late in the afternoon it continued sailing down the river
							until almost dark, when again the anchor was dropped, and we remained there until
							morning. One reason for this was that it was not considered very safe to continue the
							voyage  in the river during the night, and another
							reason was that we had about sixteen days to make the trip to Hong-Kong, China, or go
							into quarantine at some place along the way; therefore in order to kill time the
							sailors were in no hurry to leave the river.

						After leaving the river we entered the Bay of Bengal, and had not been sailing more
							than a day or two when our ship was struck by the monsoons. These winds had wrought up
							the waters of the bay into a state of unrest, and the ship was tossed about by the
							waves. One day during a storm, while crossing my cabin I was thrown against the couch,
							slightly bruising my foot. After removing my shoe my foot was wrapped in an Indian
							blanket. The wound received did not appear to be anything serious, so nothing was done
							further than to keep it wrapped in the blanket for some time. The dye of this blanket
							was very poisonous, although I never suspected anything of the kind. The next day my
							foot was slightly irritated and was again wrapped in the blanket, and this kind of
							treatment continued until I reached Hong-Kong. In the evening I would cleanse my foot
							with water, and by morning it would seem considerably better, but during the day would
							get much worse. It soon broke out into running sores on the top, side, and bottom of
							my foot, and at times became swollen. Each morning it would be better, because during
							the night I would have it bandaged, and frequently during the day would have the
							blanket thrown over it. By the time we arrived at a port where I could land, it was in
							quite a serious condition, and I was unable to wear my shoe.

						After several days we anchored near Penang along the Straits Settlements. On our ship
							were several hundred Indians, most of them on their way to Penang. They had now been
							about eight days on the journey. Most of them 
							
								BUFFALO CART AND DRIVER.
							
							 lay on the floor or on mats in the open lower deck.
							Part of the time there was a canvas roof for a shelter; but when the heavy rains came,
							not only the floor but most of the passengers of that department were well soaked with
							rain.

						Among the Indians were Hindus and Mohammedans. There were also some Jews. These
							people had peculiar customs. There were not many first-class passengers. The Jews were
							among the first-class passengers. They would not cat at the table with the others, but
							had to have a separate table, or their meals brought to them in another part of the
							ship. The Mohammedans would not eat with the Hindus, nor the Hindus with the
							Christians. Most of the Hindus had brought water with them, that they might not have
							to drink from a vessel or anything that had been touched by any one who was not a
							Hindu. They would die rather than drink from a cup from which some one else had drunk.
							If some one touched one of their cooking-vessels, it had to be scoured thoroughly or
							thrown away. If any one touched any of their food, it had to be thrown away, no matter
							how hungry they were. Some of them fasted during almost the entire voyage, for fear of
							becoming polluted by eating food which they could have obtained had they not been so
							peculiar in their belief.

						At Penang a number of Chinese took the place of the Indians who had landed. In about
							two more days we landed :at Singapore in the Straits of Malacca. Here we were within
							one degree of the equator, a distance of about sixty miles. This also is an English
							port, but the inhabitants of the city are principally Chinese. This is also a
							coaling-station for vessels. The coal is carried in baskets which hold about one
							hundred pounds, by two Chinamen with a short bamboo pole on their shoulders. Having a
							desire to go to the post-office and to do sonic other business in the 
							
								A GROUP OF ACHENESE CARRYING BURDENS.
							
							 city, I landed, expecting to take a hack, as it was
							with great difficulty that I could walk on account of the condition of my foot.

						Upon arriving at the street which leads to the dock, there were no hacks nor
							carriages to be seen. But no sooner had I reached the streets than here came Chinamen
							with two-wheeled top-buggies called "rickshaws." The Japanese name for this vehicle is
							"jinrikisha." These were very neatly-made carriages or buggies with shafts, and were
							pulled by a Chinaman. At first I had some hesitancy in riding in one of these, and
							having a man pull me about the streets; but soon found that almost every one who rode
							at all procured a rickshaw, and being unable to walk, I was soon on my way to the city
							being pulled by a Chinaman at a speed equal to the common speed of a horse.

						The streets were smooth, making the ride a pleasant one. Here we could comprehend
							something of the life of the Chinese. My rickshaw man could not understand English,
							and I could not understand the Chinese language. Having no lines, there was no way to
							guide him except to touch him with the umbrella, and ma:e motions with my hands. He
							could understand the word "post-office," but after it was reached there was no means
							of making him know where I desired to go. However, he started down the street, and we
							continued our journey for a mile or two, until we came to some business houses, where
							I had him wait until I found some one who could speak English and give him some
							instructions or location of the business places that I desired to visit.

						These rickshaw men charge twenty cents an hour for their services. That amount would
							be ten cents in our money. At this place there were boat-loads of sea-shells and coral
							brought in for sale. I had but little chance to 
							
								A RICKSHAW.
							
							 do anything on the line of gospel work here, with the
							exception of distributing some literature among some English-speaking people.

						After leaving Singapore we soon passed the straits into the China Sea, and in a few
							days reached Hong-Kong, China.
					

					

					

						HONG-KONG, CIINA.

						HONG-KONG is also an English port, and portions
							of the city are rapidly being greatly modernized, and new buildings resembling those
							of England and America being erected. Quite a number of English and Americans reside
							here, but the greater part of the city is occupied by Chinese. All the country that
							can be seen from the shore is very mountainous, with the villages and cities located
							at the base and on the sides of the mountains. The cities of China are very densely
							populated, and many of the people live along the rivers on boats. It is said that
							about three million Chinese make their home on boats and floating-rafts along the
							shores of the rivers.

						For some time before reaching Hong-Kong the captain of the steamship Lightning had urged me to have the doctor called to give treatment for my
							foot; but I told him I did not care to have a doctor have anything to do with it.
							Finally, the evening before we arrived at Hong-Kong one of the passengers came into my
							room to examine my foot. Seeing the Indian blanket on the couch, he asked me if I had
							been having my foot on that blanket. I told him that I had been wrapping it in the
							blanket. He said that was where my trouble all came from. I then took the blanket and
							washed a corner of it, and found the dye was readily washed out of it. While we were
							talking, the captain had 
							
								TIGER HUNTING NEAR THE STRAITS OF MALACCA.
							
							 became very anxious about me, and he went to another
							department of the ship and sent the doctor in to see me. The doctor knocked at the
							door and asked if he might come in. After being admitted he asked if he might examine
							my foot. After giving it an examination he remarked that it was a very serious affair,
							and that it was very necessary to have special treatment. He said that it had been
							poisoned, and upon referring to the blanket said there was no, question about the
							matter, it had been poisoned by the blanket, and the poison had entered my entire
							system. I could even feel the poisonous effects through my entire body. I thanked him
							for his offer to give treatment, but told him I did not care to have him give any
							treatment. He went away, and the other gentleman told me that it would be necessary
							for me the next morning upon arrival at Hong-Kong to procure the very best doctor in
							the city, and give it immediate attention.

						After they left the room I thoroughly cleansed the afflicted parts of my foot with
							water and properly dressed it, asking the Lord to touch it with his healing power and
							give me the necessary protection. The next morning it was decidedly better although
							yet in a very serious condition. When the ship had cast anchor, I went ashore in a
							small Chinese boat. I was not able to wear my shoe and could walk only with great
							difficulty, so I managed to get a rickshaw man to take me to the hotel. Lodging at the
							first hotel to which I went was six dollars a day. From there I went to another place,
							where they charged from four to ten dollars a day, but said their rooms were all
							occupied.

						After spending some time getting my ticket properly arranged for the next ship and
							arrangements made to have my baggage brought ashore, I then continued hunting a hotel.
							Finally I went to Hotel American. The price there 
							
								A CHINESE BARBER.
							
							 was five dollars a day. This would amount to two
							dollars and fifty cents in our money, as the Chinese dollar is worth fifty cents of
							United States money.

						Soon after my arrival at the hotel my foot became greatly inflamed, and began to
							swell and give me considerable pain, because of the irritation in walking and riding
							about so much, together with the intense heat. I could feel the poisonous effects
							going through my entire system, and asked the Lord not to let the swelling go higher
							than my ankle. It did become swollen tight to the top of my ankle, but no farther. I
							soon became violently sick with pain in my head and stomach. Although paying five
							dollars a day for hotel expenses, I began fasting and praying. I was alone. No one
							there believed in the efficacy of prayer, not even one who claimed to be a Christian.
							I thought of the hundreds of letters I had received from those of my correspondents
							who would write asking for prayer, stating that they were sick and in a community
							where there was no one who believed in divine healing. I was now in a position to know
							how to sympathize with them more than ever before. But there was no time to lose, as
							my case was truly becoming a serious one, as blood poison was making its ravages
							throughout my system. I continued my fasting and prayer until the next day, when the
							sickness passed away, the swelling was gone, the pain ceased, and the next day I was
							enabled to put on my shoe for a short time. I went about the streets of Hong-Kong
							distributing Trumpets and tracts, as I had received one hundred Gospel Trumpets at this place; but I was unable to find any gospel
							missions or religious meetings in progress.

						The third day we went aboard the steamship Doric bound for San
							Francisco, California. Having to walk to the dock, and doing considerable moving
							about, my foot 
							
								CHINESE CHILDREN.
							
							 again became irritated. It was still a mass of running
							sores, but the Lord did not permit it to give me much more pain. Every time I would
							wear my shoe and land at the ports along the way, it seemed to become irritated, and
							not until about three days before landing at San Francisco was it entirely healed.

						So far as doctors were concerned, there were five of them at the same table with me,
							and part of the voyage one roomed with me; and they, with others, offered treatment;
							but I would not allow any of them to give any treatment, although those who expressed
							themselves concerning it said that such an affliction would likely be permanent in the
							Orient. I concluded that I would practise what I had preached, and trust in God and
							not in doctors, as I remembered what was recorded in the Bible concerning King Asa. It
							is said of him that he was "diseased in his feet, until his disease was exceeding
							great: yet in his disease he sought not to the Lord, but to the physicians ... and
							died." 2 Chron. 16: 12, 13.

						This was one of the most obstinate afflictions I had ever had to contend with; but
							the Lord brought me through it all with many precious lessons of faith and patience.
							Although it lasted over forty days, being on the ship, I could have done but little
							traveling about had I been well. This seige of affliction only fitted me the more for
							working for the benefit of afflicted humanity. During this time, although lame, with
							my foot bandaged and wearing a Chinese slipper, the Lord did not free me from the
							responsibility of presenting the gospel of full salvation and healing to the
							passengers.
					

					

					
						A STREET VENDOR.
					

					

					
						RELIGIOUS SERVICES ON THE SHIP.

						THE captain called upon me to read the services on Sunday for the
							first-class passengers; but as they had their regular form of worship of the Church of
							England, the sermon was to be read from a book. The prayer service also was to be
							read, in which acknowledging all to be "miserable, wretched sinners, doing many things
							we ought not to do, and leaving undone many things we ought to do," and deploring our
							miserable, sinful condition. These, with many other similar statements in both prayer
							and discourse, made me feel free in declining to "read" the service, as he termed it.
							I told him that I was not accustomed to their reading-services, and kindly asked to be
							excused.

						There were several other missionaries and ministers on board, but none of them would
							conduct the services. They did not have so much objection to reading the services as
							they had to taking the position of a minister in such a place, as most of the
							passengers were of the aristocratic class of people. It was the duty of the captain to
							conduct the services when there were no ministers to conduct them, but this time the
							captain also refused to perform his duty, and no services were held in the morning.
							The missionaries talked the matter over afterwards, and felt there should be some
							services held, and insisted upon my delivering the discourse. This gave me the
							privilege of presenting the gospel in all its fulness, showing forth the power of
							Christ and the truthfulness of the Bible the same to-day as during the days of the
							apostles, and that his power would be manifested among his believing children, and
							that a failure among those who claimed to be his children in having a manifestation of
							the power of God was because of sin or unbelief.

						

						After the services were over some of the English-speaking Japanese gentlemen came and
							said they had heard the discourse and were highly pleased and anxious to know more
							about the Christian religion. After this they came frequently to have a conversation
							concerning Christianity. Some of the American missionaries who had been working in
							China and Japan in the past few years also came to me inquiring concerning my belief.
							I told them that I believed the Bible, and that we were living in the time of the
							gospel dispensation, and that the New Testament was our guide and discipline.

						Some of them upon finding that I believed in holiness and divine healing did not care
							to have any more conversation with me, while others became greatly interested. One
							lady missionary from Japan said, "You seem to have strange ideas about the church,"
							and asked me to what church I belonged. I told her that I belonged to the church of
							God, which Jesus said he would build (Mat. 16: 16-18), and that it was the one for
							which lie gave his life and purchased with his own blood.

						"But what is the name of your church?"

						"It is not my church. It is the one which Jesus said he would build. The name of it
							is found in Acts 20: 28. It is called the 'church of God.' 'Take heed therefore unto
							yourselves, and to all the flock, over which the Holy Ghost hath made you overseers,
							to feed the church of God, which he has purchased with his own blood.'"

						"To whom was this spoken?"

						"Paul was here speaking to the elders of the church of God at Ephesus, and he told
							them that the Holy Ghost had made them overseers, and it was the church which was
							purchased with the blood of Jesus."

						"Yes, I know; we all belong to that church; but who is the head of your church?"

						

						"You will find it by turning to Col. 1:18. In speaking of Jesus, Paul said, 'And he
							is the head of the body, the church.' And in the twenty-fourth verse he says, 'for his
							body's sake, which is the church.' By this you will see that Christ is the head of the
							church."

						"But what is meant by 'the body'?"

						"'The body' means the church, and is made up of the entire number of saved people.
							Paul, in speaking to the church at Corinth, said, 'Now ye are the body of Christ, and
							members in particular. And God hath set some in the church,' etc. 1 Cor. 12: 27, 28.
							In the eighteenth verse of the same chapter he says, 'But now hath God set the members
							every one of them in the body, as it hath pleased him.' You see, God sets the members
							in the church."

						"But how do you join your church?"

						"Jesus said in John 10: 9, 'I am the door: by me if any man enter in, he shall be
							saved.' And in 1 Cor. 12: 13 the apostle says, 'For by one Spirit are we all baptized
							into one body.' You see, it is by getting salvation that we get into the church
							through Jesus Christ."

						"But it is necessary for us to have a home."

						"Are we not at home in the church of God? Have we not brothers and sisters in Christ,
							fathers and mothers in Israel in the church of God?"

						"But is is necessary to belong to some visible church in order to have a home."

						'What do you mean by a 'visible' church?"

						"I mean a place where we can associate and have our church fellowship in some visible
							church here on earth."

						"Give me the name of some church that is more visible than the church of God."

						"Why, the Methodists."

						"Well, now I will ask you to tell me wherein the Methodist church is more visible
							than the church of God?"

						

						"Oh, we have our congregations and meeting-houses and many other things, and our
							discipline to keep us together."

						"Now I will ask you if you as a Methodist are any more visible than I am as a member
							of the church of God. Can you not see me as well as I can see you?"

						''Certainly."

						"Were I to ask you to show me the Methodist church, what would you show me? You say
							there are Methodist congregations; I can show you congregations of believers who
							belong only to the church of God. One congregation is just as visible as the other. If
							you point to the meeting-houses as the church, they are not more visible than the
							houses occupied by the church of God. If you refer to the Methodist discipline as
							being the church, then I refer you to the New Testament as the discipline of the
							church of God, and this discipline is suitable for every case in the church. It says,
							"All scripture given by inspiration of God is profitable for doctrine, for reproof,
							for correction, for instruction in righteousness: that the man of God may be perfect,
							thoroughly furnished unto all good works." 2 Tim. 3: 16. What better discipline is
							needed than this? If there is any necessity for teaching on doctrinal points, our
							discipline, which is the New Testament, gives it. If reproof is needed, within its
							pages can be found the exact words of reproof according to the case presented. If
							correction is needed, there are to be found the necessary words of correction. If
							instruction in righteousness, it is to be found there. And it says that these things
							are given 'that the man of God may be perfect, throughly furnished unto all good
							works.' If through these things a man can be throughly furnished and made perfect,
							what is the necessity of another discipline for the government  of the church? There might, possibly, be one thing you could show me the
							Methodists have that I could not show you in the church of God, and that is the
							class-book, as the class-book of the church of God is kept in heaven, as we read in
							Heb. 12: 22, 23: 'But ye are come to Mount Sion, and unto the city of the living God,
							the heavenly Jerusalem, and to an innumerable company of angels, to the general
							assembly and church of the first-born, which are written in heaven.' We also read in
							Luke 10: 20 that Jesus told the Seventy to rejoice because their names were written in
							heaven. Then, I ask, why need we anything more than the New Testament to govern
							us?"

						"Oh, we must have something to keep us together."

						"Do you not remember the words of Jesus in the seventeenth chapter of St. John,
							wherein he prayed for all of them that believe on him through the word of the
							apostles, that all such believers were to be one, as he and the Father are one? And in
							Rom. 8:35-39 Paul said: 'Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? shall
							tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or peril, or sword?
							... Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him that loved us.
							For I am persuaded, that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor
							powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any other
							creature, shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus
							our Lord.' Can you think of anything more needed?"

						"Well, it seems to me that we ought to have a home anyhow."

						"According to your reasoning, then, the apostles and the three thousand and the five
							thousand saved soon after the day of Pentecost, whom the Bible says the Lord added to
							the church, and the thousands of thousands saved during 
							
								SIAMESE COUNTRYMAN.
							
							 the early days of Christianity, all went along without
							having a home, because they belonged only to the church of God, which they joined by
							being born of the Spirit, or, in other words, by getting saved from their sins."

						In like manner the conversation continued for some time with this missionary, and
							also with others.
					

					

					
						MEETING A HIGHER CRITIC OF THE BIBLE.

						AMONG the passengers with whom I spent much time in conversation
							was a professor in one of the largest American universities. He had spent most of his
							life as a teacher in China, and was very much interested in the welfare of the Chinese
							people, and was considered one among the best Chinese linguists. Through his
							instrumentality and personal labors a manuscript had been prepared for an encyclopedia
							in the Chinese language, consisting of several hundred large volumes. Being much
							interested in the civilization of the Chinese, he was quite a friend of missionaries,
							although he was not a missionary himself, neither did he claim an experience of
							salvation; nevertheless he was quite a Bible reader, but read the Bible more from a
							standpoint of criticism than otherwise, as he was one of the "higher critics."

						He said it was very difficult to instil into the minds of the Chinese, progressive
							views of civilization, as they are very superstitious and given over to idolatry and
							the teaching of Confucius. Many of the Chinese have the works of Confucius for their
							guide, the same as Christians have the Bible. Every white person from Europe or
							America who visits China is considered a Christian. For this reason it is very
							difficult for them to conceive an idea of what  real
							Christianity consists. He said that when he spoke to them, they would say, "We do not
							want your Bible, nor your Christ; we have the works of Confucius, which are far
							superior to your Bible." They all say, "Look at your Christians-the merchants and the
							sailors who come to our land. As soon as they reach the port, they go directly to
							saloons, gambling-houses, and houses of ill-fame, and seek to debauch our women, and
							frequently have to be locked up or carried back to their ships. They are a sample of
							your Christians."

						This gentleman said he would tell them that these were not Christians, nor any sample
							of Christianity, but that it was very difficult to change their minds. He would refer
							them to the missionaries and their work. They would admit that as a general thing the
							missionaries were a better class of people and were doing good, although some of them
							led lives that would almost put the better class of Chinese to shame, a reproach to
							the cause of Christianity. He said that among the missionaries who went there, to his
							knowledge there were some honest, conscientious men and women; but that there were
							others who were using many schemes in order to get converts and have a good report to
							send back to America to the headquarters of their denominations, that they might get a
							better support from the home land. They would give so much money or rice, clothing, or
							something of the kind, to every one who would claim conversion and be baptized. These
							were generally also offered a position to work and receive a certain salary each
							month. The Chinese soon learned this trickery; and when the pay ceased, they would go
							to another missionary of some other denomination and offer to be a Christian for so
							much. They would likewise continue as long as the pay lasted. We also talked with
							others of China who said these were facts.

						

						A thorough investigation among the religious workings in China carried on by American
							and European missionaries would reveal some astonishing things to their supporters.
							This gentleman said to me, "Is there no possible way to get at these Chinese for a
							more rapid spread of the gospel and progress in civilization? They seem to be so
							averse to developments in education and improved methods of industry." I told him that
							so far as religion was concerned, aside from the efforts on the line of education,
							modern improvements, and the various industries, there must be something that would
							convince them concerning the truth of our Bible and the principles of Christianity.
							They must be made to see and realize that Christianity is not a farce.

						"But how can this be done?" he replied.

						"It can be done just as it was done in the morning of the Christian era during the
							time of Christ and the apostles. The Word must be preached with authority and with the
							signs following, as mentioned in the last chapter of St. Mark and elsewhere. Men and
							women must go there to preach the gospel as it is set forth in the New Testament.
							Those must go who are called of God and sent by him, and who have a change of heart, a
							real experience of what they preach to others. They must be those who will preach the
							truth without compromise, regardless of men's pocket-books, wicked men, or devils.
							They must tell the people of what Jesus Christ did while here on earth, his promises
							to the apostles and what they did after his death, and the promises given to all those
							who believe upon him through their word. John 17: 20. And when they read from Heb. 13:
							8 that Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, to-day, and forever, they must believe the
							Word and practise the same, to show forth similar works to those which were manifested
							in the morning of the Christian era."

						

						
							A TEA FIELD IN JAPAN.
						

						

						"But most ministers say the time for those things are past, and were only for the
							apostles."

						"That time is only past for unbelievers. We are now living in a time, according to
							prophecy, when the full light of the Word of God is shining forth the same as at the
							beginning of the morning era. At the beginning the light which sprang forth from
							Bethlehem through the birth of Christ and was proclaimed by the angel as good tidings
							and was afterwards preached by Jesus Christ and his apostles, sent a gleam of light in
							the midst of the darkness round about, and all spiritual darkness was removed from all
							who believed, and people received the benefits of full salvation and healing and the
							manifestation of the power of God in many ways, and abundant blessings. But few
							cen1uries had passed until there was a compromise among the people, drifting away from
							the truth, and for a number of centuries it was almost as a time of night, as
							described by the prophet. Finally there came a time when Martin Luther began to preach
							justification by faith, and a gleam of light went forth into the darkness. The Wesleys
							and others preached sanctification by faith, and greater light went forth. The Word of
							God was printed and distributed among the people, and the light spread to the extent
							the truths of the gospel were preached. One sect after another was formed, dividing
							and separating and scattering those who became believers. And while some preached one
							part of the Word and some another, yet the whole Word was not preached in its fulness
							on the oneness of God's people according to the prayer of Jesus and against divisions
							as Paul preached it, and concerning divine healing and many other points; but there
							was considerable light going forth amidst the darkness, according to the prophecy of
							Zechariah in Zech. 14: 6, 7: 'And it shall come to pass in that 
							
								BAMBOO GROVES IN JAPAN.
							
							 day, that the light shall not be clear, nor dark; but
							it shall be one day which shall be known to the Lord, not day, nor night.' The
							fulfilment of this prophecy has been for the past few centuries, but the prophet
							further says 'that at evening time it shall be light.'"

						"What will make this light?"

						"It will be the preaching of the Word in all its fulness, as it was in the morning
							time. We are now in the evening time of this Christian era, and the prophet said at
							evening time it should be light. In order to bring about this light the Word of God
							must surely be preached in all its fulness, and the same results will be brought
							about. The prophet Ezekiel was referring to this very time in Ezek. 34:11-16, where
							the Lord said in that day he would search out his sheep that were scattered, and would
							deliver them out of all places where they had been scattered in the cloudy and dark
							day. When the Word of God is preached in all its fulness, people who believe it will
							get the same kind of experience as believers in the days of the apostles. They will
							belong to the same church, and be separated from every so-called church. They will
							have the benefits of being healed of their diseases by faith, and enjoy the real
							blessings of the Lord, and be filled with his Holy Spirit. When China has ministers
							sent of God instead of sent by the conferences or some synod, and those ministers go
							forth preaching what the Lord sends them to preach, there will be a great renovation
							in religious circles in China. We do not suppose every one in China will turn to the
							gospel any more than did every one turn to the gospel in the days of the apostles.
							There will be opposition and bitter persecution, but the fire of God's Word will
							spread effectually accordingly as it is preached and practised."

						The gentleman was very much interested in these things,  and desired to know if there were any such ministers and people in the United
							States and other countries. I told him of the great number of grove and camp meetings
							and assemblies that were held throughout the United States and Canada and other
							countries, and that when we passed through Europe, India, and other places, we found
							the same, and that frequently in America many thousand people gather together at the
							camp-meetings, and many sick people are healed and devils cast out of those who are
							possessed, and the Word of God fulfilled according to the promise.

						He being a higher critic said, "I suppose you know there are many thousand mistakes
							and conflictions in the King James' Version, which the people accept as the Word of
							God, and there are many criticisms."

						"Well," I replied, "I have frequently heard it said that there are many of them, but
							I never had any one to point out any serious mistakes and conflictions when properly
							understood. Taking all things into consideration, it is quite a good translation,
							although I will admit there are a number of mistakes in translation where the
							expression could have been improved upon. But as I said, I never had any one to, point
							out anything serious or that would change the teachings of the Word of God to any
							extent."

						Calling the Bible the "Word of God" brought some remarks from him, to which I
							replied, "You do not believe the Word of God?"

						"Oh, yes, I believe the Word of God, but I do not believe all to be the Word of God
							that is in the book which you call the Bible."

						I found that, like other critics, he did not believe the story of Jonah, which they
							generally call the big fish-story, nor that concerning Joshua's commanding the sun to
							stand still; the parting of the waters of the Red Sea 
							and of the river Jordan; the signs following as mentioned in the last chapter of St.
							Mark; and many other things. I asked if he personally knew of any of those mistakes
							and criticisms.

						"Oh, yes," said he, "I have thoroughly gone over this matter."

						"Well, now let us take our Bibles and examine some of these questionable things. We
							will begin with the New Testament. Are there any in the New Testament?"

						"Oh, yes, hundreds of them."

						"Well, now let us take one at a time, and see if there is anything that is wrong, or
							that conflicts with other parts of the Word of God to any great extent."

						"Oh, there are many of them."

						"But I want only one at a time. You say there are hundreds, and there are many; now
							let us take one-- just any one you can think of."

						"Oh, there are many, but I can't call them to mind just now."

						Neither could I get him to make mention of one. I told him that I had never been able
							to get a critic to sit down with me and reason upon the Word of God and find anything
							the Word would not fully explain and make clear. He then asked a number of questions
							concerning divine healing, and I told him I had personally witnessed the healing of
							thousands of people of almost every kind of disease I had met. He said, "If all those
							things be true, how about your foot which has been so sore?" At the time he said this
							we were two or three days from San Francisco, and my foot was then healed and I was
							wearing my shoe, and he had all the time known the extent of my affliction. I said to
							him, "I have trusted the Lord through it all, and I am now well; but it has been one
							of the most obstinate  afflictions I have ever had,
							although I have been seriously sick many times, frequently at the point of death, but
							have not lain in bed a whole day at a time for twenty years. The Lord has always
							healed me in answer to prayer."
					

					

					

						A TYPHOON.

						AFTER leaving Hong-Kong we stopped at Amoy a short time. Then we
							went to a place called Woosong, where we anchored out at sea, and many of the
							passengers went on to Shanghai, which was a few miles away. While anchored we were
							struck by the outer edge of a typhoon. A typhoon is a heavy wind, something like a
							cyclone or tornado, blowing in a circle. In the center of this it is very quiet and
							hot. The typhoon sometimes extends for several hundred miles. It is said that no ship
							in the midst of a typhoon can stand against its power, but is swept along amidst the
							winds and the waves, and is at the mercy of the sea.

						Three or four large ships anchored in a harbor not far distant were dragged and swept
							ashore, thrown upon the beach, and some of them almost ruined. We being in the outer
							edge of it, got a good shaking up, but no damage was done. The navigation stations
							along the way have typhoon signals. They have instruments which indicate the coming of
							a typhoon, and can give warning several hours beforehand. The captain of a ship when
							finding that a typhoon is coming is not likely to venture out upon the sea within the
							limits of its course.
					

					

					

						JAPAN.

						WE now passed along the Yellow Sea, and near the mouth of the
							Yang-tse-Kiang River. The waters were still 
							
								JAPANESE NURSES.
							
							 quite rough from the effects of the typhoon, but as we
							neared the shores of Japan the waters became more quiet and smooth. Our ship arrived
							at Nagasaki, Japan, at five o'clock in the afternoon on the 15th of July.

						On account of the war being in progress between Japan and Russia, the entrance to the
							harbor of Japan was strewn with mines below the surface of the water, for the purpose
							of blowing up Russian vessels that might undertake to pass through into the harbor.
							The location of these mines were known only to certain Japanese; therefore no vessels
							were allowed to enter the harbor unless piloted by a Japanese government officer.
							After arriving at a certain place the anchor was cast until a small vessel came with
							the government pilot to conduct us safely through the harbor of Nagasaki.

						At this place is a great coaling-station, and it is noted the world over on account
							of the rapidity in which vessels are loaded with coal. No sooner had we anchored in
							the harbor than quite a number of vessels or coal-barges came alongside the ship, and
							soon ten of them were fastened with one end near the side of the ship and preparations
							being made for loading the coal. Soon about three hundred and fifty Japanese men,
							women, and children were aboard these barges with baskets made of wide grass or
							seawood. These baskets hold almost half a bushel of coal. They had no handles. Bamboo
							poles were tied to the sides of the ship near the upper portholes, where there were
							large pipes leading down to the lower part of the ship. It was probably thirty feet
							from the holes in the ship down to the barges. Upon these bamboo poles, which slanted
							down to the barges, boards were tied on for steps and platforms. There were two rows
							of people for each barge, and soon the work began. Some were filling baskets while
							others were starting 
							
								A JAPANESE IDOL.
							
							 them on their way, each one lifting or pushing a basket
							to the next one, which kept it going; thus a continual line of baskets was going to
							the ship, and as rapidly emptied and thrown back empty. In a few hours over a thousand
							tons of coal were placed in the ship, and we were soon on our way to Kobe, Japan, at
							which place we arrived the next day-- Sunday.

						At this place I landed and procured a rickshaw, and went to another part of the city
							to a Japanese Sunday-school conducted by some Japanese ladies. The house was a very
							neat-appearing one, carpeted with straw matting. The children all sat down in a
							position somewhat different from the people of India. They were in a position of
							kneeling, except they were sitting back on their feet, while their knees were still on
							the floor and their toes sticking straight out behind therm. They would stand when
							they sang songs and repeated their verses.

						On the 18th of July we arrived at Yokohoma, Japan. Here we remained three days. At
							this place I had the privilege of talking salvation to a number of educated Japanese,
							and also of distributing literature, and found two or three Japanese who very
							willingly distributed the literature among the English-speaking people. While here
							some of us took a trip by railway to Tokio, the capital of Japan. There we saw many
							heathen temples where they worshiped their gods, and saw the principal places of their
							idolatrous worship. The Japanese people, however, are very friendly and charitable to
							Christian missionaries, and Japan is being greatly revolutionized and making great
							strides toward modern improvements and civilization. Although war was in progress with
							Russia, yet American travelers were perfectly safe in going about in that country.

						The Japanese are not such great inventors as they are 
							
								PLOWING THE RICE FIELD.
							
							 imitators. It is something wonderful the power of
							intimation which they possess. They are getting almost all the improvements of other
							nations, and manufactoring and making use of the same. They are sending men to other
							countries to be educated, and to learn the workings and methods of the various
							industries.

						In the cities of Japan, like in some other cities through which we passed, there are
							but few horses or carriages used as conveyances for passengers, but almost every one
							rides in a rickshaw drawn by a Japanese. Twenty-five or thirty of these top-buggies or
							rickshaws can be seen at a time side by side along the street, with a man at each one
							motioning to the passers-by to get in and take a ride. It is surprising to know how
							fast and how far they will travel without exhaustion. At Tokio we procured a rickshaw
							for about four hours with constant traveling, with the exception of about half an
							hour, and as soon as we had finished our ride, the man was ready for another customer.
							We took this long journey in order to visit the principal temples and places of
							idolatry, and make the best use of our time while there.

						One morning while I was at breakfast on the ship, eating at the chief officer's
							table, a Japanese officer came in and whispered to him, and said, "There have just
							been three Russian men-of-war vessels sighted passing the Straits. You look out for
							this ship." The officer made preparation with the expectation of meeting them as soon
							as we got out into the open sea.

						When I was a boy, I thought there were two places that I should like to be if only I
							knew I should come out safe: one was on the ocean in a storm, and the other in the
							front of battle where the shot and shell came thick and fast. But now I had already
							had an experience in a storm, and 
							
								PLANTING THE RICE FIELDS IN JAPAN.
							
							 it looked as if I should get my satisfaction concerning
							the battle. All such desire, however, had long passed away, and I was not anxious to
							get into the battle; but the outlook to that end was quite favorable. Some Japanese
							vessels were sent out after the Russian men-of-war, but the Russians had made their
							escape. When we reached the open sea, they were not to be found.
					

					

					

						A LONG DAY.

						AFTER remaining three days at Yokohoma we bade farewell to Japan,
							and were soon sailing over the waters of the Pacific toward the Hawaiian Islands,
							which required a voyage of ten days. On Sunday I was called upon to take charge of the
							services of the ship.

						As we continued our voyage, we came to the place where there were eight days in one
							week, or rather one day of forty-eight hours. This was Wednesday, July 27. We had our
							menu cards dated Wednesday, July 27, and on the next day they were dated in the same
							way-- Wednesday, July 27. This was on account of reaching the meridian of one hundred
							and eighty degrees longitude. Travelers going east have a day of forty-eight hours;
							going west a day is dropped.

						Nothing of much importance occurred along the way, with the exception that one day
							while sitting on the deck, we saw the spouting of some whales near the ship. The
							whales were underneath the water, but were spouting the water several feet above the
							surface.
					

					

					
						HAWAIIAN ISLANDS.

						SATURDAY evening we sighted the Hawaiian Islands, passed by some
							large shoals and coral reefs near the shore, and about ten o'clock at night landed in
							the harbor of Honolulu. The next day being Sunday, most of the passengers spent the
							time in the city, as the ship was to remain there until noon. I went to the
							post-office and called for mail, but was told there was none. I insisted there must be
							some there, consequently was sent to another part of the building to the assistant
							postmaster. He informed me that there was none. I told him that it was likely cent in
							care of Thomas Cook & Son. He said that Thomas Cook & Son had no office there,
							but that there was a bank in the city that did some business for them. I went to the
							bank, and found it locked, and was just about to leave when I found there was some one
							within. Upon returning I was admitted, and there received quite a number of letters,
							some rolls of Trumpets and Shining Lights, and
							other literature, a good portion of which was distributed in various places in the
							city. I had also obtained several hundred addresses of missionaries here and in other
							places along the way, to whom literature was afterwards sent.

						As I went about the city distributing literature and talking salvation to the people,
							I distinctly remembered the impressions and dream that I had a number of years before,
							which are mentioned elsewhere in this book, and the situation of the city was
							strikingly similar to that which I had seen years before in my dream.

						I was now for the first time since January upon soil belonging to the United States.
							The native people are rather dark-skinned, and have features more like the  American people. There are many Americans living here.
							The manners and customs of the people are more like those of the United States. The
							things for sale in the market are much the same. There are, however, many thousand
							Japanese in the Hawaiian Islands.

						Honolulu has an abundant supply of saloons. Here I began to see drunken people. While
							in other countries there was a great deal of drinking (in fact, almost every hotel and
							place for the benefit of the public was well supplied with intoxicating liquors), yet
							I had not seen much beastly drunkenness; but at this place there were persons going
							about with wild shrieks and shouts and immodest performances, without being molested
							by any of the officers of the law. On our ship, the same as almost every other ship,
							there was a barroom, where liquors and drinks of all kinds were dealt out freely; and
							at the tables people ordered their drinks by the bottle, consisting of whiskey, wine,
							champagne, etc. Preachers, missionaries, and all, with very few exceptions, partook
							freely of these. One lady noticing that I did not partake of those drinks, remarked to
							some one near her, that when a person got so he would not take a drink occasionally or
							smoke a cigar, there was something seriously wrong with him.

						On one of the other ships were a missionary and his wife on their way to, China, who
							sat at the table with one of the sisters, and had their bottle of whiskey; but feeling
							somewhat reproved by some mention being made of the evil effects of liquor, they tried
							to keep the, label on the opposite side of the bottle from this sister, for the label
							read "Old Rye Whiskey." It is no uncommon thing for many of the missionaries to
							indulge in such things. However, there are some who are true enough to God and to
							their calling to refrain from such and denounce the same as evil,  and every missionary or minister who is called of the Lord and sent by him
							will refrain and cry out against such.

						In the afternoon of the 6th day of August, we sighted land, which proved to be our
							home land. Quite an excitement prevailed for some time when some one shouted "Land!"
							About the middle of the afternoon we passed through the Golden Gate at San Francisco.
							This is a wide entrance between some high hills on one side and the hills of the city
							on the other side. We did not know whether we should be held any length of time for
							quarantine or not. The quarantine officers came aboard, after waiting for some time,
							and the ship was examined, and after an hour or so allowed to slowly make her way to
							the landing.

						Our baggage had all been arranged and labeled, and the proper papers and blanks
							filled out for the custom-house. After landing, passengers who had baggage had to wait
							until the baggage was removed from the steamer to a place in the custom-house, and
							there in turn, according to the number of their papers, had to open their baggage and
							trunks for investigation. Some had to take almost everything out of their trunks, and
							have a very thorough examination. They were here the most stringent and particular of
							any place we visited in our entire trip around the world. When it came my turn, I had
							two medium-sized trunks, a large and a small satchel, and a small telescope. All these
							I had open when the officers came around. It was after six o'clock in the evening now,
							and the officers were anxious to get home, as it was Saturday evening; therefore they
							hastily looked over my things, and after removing a few articles gave the proper
							marking, and passed on. I did not have to pay any duty on any of my baggage on my
							entire trip.
					
				

				

				

					AMERICA.

					
					

						SAN FRANCISCO.

						UPON leaving the ship I was met by Brother Philpot, who lives in
							the city, and who had come there to meet me. Upon my leaving India Brother Khan sent
							him a letter, which came the other way and arrived before I did, informing him of my
							coming. I had written to the brethren at Neosha Falls, Kansas, where there was to be a
							camp-meeting August 18-28. Also, there was to be one at Claypool, Indiana, on the same
							date. I was expected to be at both meetings, and had intended to visit Los Angeles
							while on my way to Neosha Falls. Upon my arrival in San Francisco it seemed I had
							almost reached home, although I had yet a distance of nearly three thousand miles to
							travel overland, and had arranged to stop at several places in meetings, and reach
							home about the first of September. However, there was quite a temptation to purchase a
							through ticket for home. I sent a message home immediately telling of my arrival.

						The brethren in India had insisted upon my sending them a cablegram. The cable
							address of the brethren there is "Church Calcutta." In sending a cablegram the address
							is charged for at the same rate as the words of the message. I found that the charges
							were $1.35 a word. We had made out a code, and aside from the address, the message
							consisted of only one word-- "Chicagost." That was the abbreviation of the following
							words, which the brethren at Calcutta fully understood: "Just arrived safely at San
							Francisco; not sick; no quarantine; leave for home by way of Los Angeles and Neosha
							Falls." All this was contained in the one word. Upon receipt of that message in India
								570 they telegraphed the same to Brother Jarvis, who
							was anxiously waiting news concerning my arrival.

						After sending the messages I went to the home of Brother Philpot. The next day being
							Sunday, the brethren in San Francisco, and Oakland, learning of my arrival, gathered
							together, and we had a very precious meeting, which continued for five services. The
							church was greatly encouraged and strengthened. After the meeting on the last night I
							went home with Brother Jacob Brunner, who lived in Oakland, across the bay from San
							Francisco. All travelers going east from San Francisco must cross the bay, which is
							about six miles in width. Having received an urgent letter to come to Farmersville,
							California, the next day I went from Oakland to Farmersville, where a meeting was
							held, and had a pleasant visit with the brethren there. From that place I continued my
							journey to Los Angeles, and spent Sunday with the church there, where a few services
							were held, and on Monday went to visit some brethren at a small town a few miles
							distant.
					

					

					

						FROM CALIFORNIA HOME.

						MONDAY evening I left for Neosha Falls, Kansas, passing through
							Arizona, New Mexico, and Colorado. On account of some heavy rains and a washout along
							the way, the train was delayed, and I was obliged to remain all night at Kansas City;
							but on the next day I arrived at Neosha Falls, where the camp-meeting was in progress,
							and found the people of God gathered together in a very precious meeting. Souls were
							being saved, the sick healed, and the Word of God preached in its fulness. Here as
							elsewhere the brethren were very anxious to hear concerning  the people of India and other foreign countries. After spending one
							service in talking concerning foreign work, one sister arose and said that she felt
							God wanted her to go to India, and that for years she had felt that her future work
							was to be in that country, and that now the time had come for her to go. She
							immediately began to make preparations, and started for Moundsville, West Virginia,
							and stopped at the Claypool meeting.

						After remaining a few days at the camp-meeting at Neosha Falls, I continued my
							journey, making a short stop at the Faith Missionary Home in Chicago, and thence to
							Claypool, Indiana, where I arrived in the afternoon, and was soon at the camp-grounds
							about seven miles from the station. Upon my arrival at San Francisco, when the
							brethren met me and were praising the Lord, I told them that it seemed good to hear
							some one say, "Praise the Lord," as no one had met me with such a greeting since I
							left India. But upon my arrival at Claypool, here were hundreds with whom I was
							acquainted, who were praising the Lord with shouts of joy and gladness because of this
							great salvation, and who were also greatly rejoiced to meet me once more. Large crowds
							attended this meeting. On Sunday it was estimated there were more than ten thousand
							people present. There were many who received an experience of conversion and
							sanctification, many sick were healed of their diseases, evil spirits cast out, and a
							number were baptized in a lake by the camp-ground. There were a goodly number of
							ministers, evangelists, and gospel workers gathered together who had been giving their
							time traveling about in the gospel work without salary, and who were not afraid to
							present the gospel in all its purity. At this place I met my mother and one of my
							brothers, as well as many brothers and sisters in Christ Jesus, and it seemed more
							than ever like home.

						

						Early on Monday morning after the close of the meeting, in company with my mother, I
							continued my journey as far as Saratoga, Indiana. Here I stopped a short time with one
							of my brothers, then went to the old homestead with my mother, about four miles and a
							half distant. After remaining there one night and the next day, in the evening I
							visited the church at Praise Chapel, near New Pittsburg, and from there went to Union
							City, Indiana, and continued my journey eastward. The next evening I arrived at home,
							at seven o'clock P. M., August 31, after an absence of almost eight months. While
							passing along the streets, about five minutes before reaching home, I stopped at one
							of the neighbors and telephoned to my family, and they were greatly rejoiced because
							of my arrival.

						Truly the Lord had been precious to me and granted protection through all kinds of
							danger, and permitted me to be brought back safe, feeling that I had accomplished that
							which he had designed for me to accomplish during the trip.

						The next morning I visited the Trumpet Family, consisting of the workers in the
							publishing work who were living at the Trumpet Home. And, also, upon visiting the
							Trumpet Office I found Brother Teasley sitting at my desk, where he had been kindly
							taking my place during my absence. The other workers were busily engaged and the work
							was in a prosperous condition and on the increase. Many new workers had come during my
							absence. There were over one hundred persons engaged in the work of publishing
							religious books, tracts, and papers, and all giving their services free of charge,
							without salary. The Trumpet Home is located on the camp-ground, near the publishing
							house, and it furnishes accommodations and a home for the most of those who work in
							the Office. It is also used as 
							
								FRONT VIEW OF TRUMPET HOME-- MOUNDSVILLE, W. VA.
							
							a place to board and accommodate the people who attend
							the annual camp-meetings, which generally begin the last of May and continue ten days.
							The auditorium on the camp-ground was built to seat four thousand people.

						Notwithstanding the fact that the papers and books have a stipulated price, during
							the past few years hundreds of tons of literature have been sent out free to all parts
							of the world. All the proceeds above the actual expense of conducting the business are
							used in the free distribution of literature. It is an institution for the spread of the
							gospel, to inspire the people to believe and trust God and to exercise faith in him,
							as did the church in the days of the apostles. It is a faith work, or, in other words,
							a faith home. People from different parts of the United States and Canada visit us,
							seeking spiritual help and healing. Rich and poor are treated alike. In the Home is a
							chapel, where prayer services are held every day. Large numbers of requests for prayer
							are daily received through the mail, by telephone and telegraph messages, also by
							cablegrams from foreign countries. There is a small prayer-room in the Office, next to
							the editorial rooms, where the most urgent requests receive immediate attention. A
							business of this kind would not be fully equipped without a special prayer-room for
							such occasions, and where important business matters could be settled by consultation
							with the Lord of heaven.

						Such a work is not continued without occasional testing Limes. Frequently the
							managers of the business departments have spent a part of the busiest hour in the day
							in the prayer-room asking God to open the way before them. At other times, in more
							weighty matters when the way seemed almost blocked, a day would be appointed for
							fasting and prayer, and all operation of machinery and work 
							
								SIDE VIEW OF TRUMPET HOME-- MOUNDSVILLE, W. VA.
							
							 discontinued during that time. In many instances, the
							results have been marvelous. At one time several thousand dollars were to be raised
							within a few days, making an average of one thousand dollars a day, and our regular
							receipts were only about two hundred dollars a day. Having anticipated this coming
							ordeal, special prayer services were held both publicly and privately, asking the Lord
							to prosper the work by moving people to send orders for books, tracts, and papers, and
							to make donations, that we might be able to meet the obligations. When the close of
							the first day came, we had just barely enough to pay the first thousand, yet it was
							sufficient for that time. Thus it continued for a few days, when a larger amount was
							to be raised; and the outlook was discouraging from a human standpoint. All work was
							stopped, and announcement made that it would be a time of prayer and fasting. All
							gladly joined with one accord in sending up their petitions to the throne of grace,
							and the Lord sent an outpouring of his Spirit upon us. In the afternoon the mail was
							opened with much confidence that God had heard and answered prayer. And as his Word
							says, "Before they call, I will answer; and while they are yet speaking, I will hear"
							(Isa. 65: 24), so it was in this case. One of the first letters opened, contained a
							donation of fifty dollars, another one one hundred dollars, followed by others
							containing twenty-five dollars and smaller amounts, and large and small orders for
							books and tracts. One letter was from a man who lived a thousand miles away, whom we
							had never met, and it contained a draft for five hundred dollars as a donation. Again
							we were sufficiently supplied, and all obligations were satisfactorily met to the end,
							after which time the daily receipts dropped down to the usual amount as
							before-sufficient to meet the regular expenses.
					

					

					
						AUDITORIUM WHERE ANUL CAMP-MEETING IS HELD-- MOUNDSVILLE, W.
								VA.
					

					

					

						OPPOSITIONS TO THE TRUTH.

						IN the days of the apostles, when the gospel was preached with
							authority, according to the instructions of our Savior, it was not only effectual in
							turning many people from their sins, and in the healing of the sick, but there was
							opposition by the "baser sort," and by the Jews who were professing to be the people
							of God, but who in heart were only hypocrites. They frequently formed violent mobs
							against those who dared to follow the teachings of Christ, and many were cast into
							prison and suffered great persecutions.

						The presentation of the gospel in the same manner at the present time will bring
							forth similar results-- manifestations of the power of God, followed by bitter
							persecutions. During the past few years in a number of places in the United States and
							Canada persecutions have arisen to such an extent that large mobs of masked men, armed
							with guns, knives, clubs, and such like, have disturbed public religious meetings,
							broken up camp-meetings, and in some cases some of the ministers and others were
							severely injured. But such proceedings generally resulted in the furtherance of the
							gospel, instead of stopping it.

						The doctrine and practise of divine healing has been the means of bringing about much
							opposition from doctors and preachers who do not believe in it. Although five hundred
							out of one thousand persons may die under the direct treatment of doctors, little is
							thought or said about it; but should one out of a thousand die trusting in the
							efficacy of prayer, the opposers are ready to. have the friends prosecuted. A number
							of brethren have been prosecuted for manslaughter, and brought before magistrates and
							rulers to answer to this serious charge for no  other
							reason than that they did not administer drugs to the sick, although the law was fully
							complied with in every respect.

						As a sample of such proceedings, an insertion will here be made of the account of a
							prosecution made a few months ago. I attended the trial in court, an account of which
							was afterwards published as follows:
					

					

					

						AN ARREST FOR MANSLAUGHTER.

						IN Butler, Pennsylvania, there was a trial in court of Brother
							Henry Hoffman of Conoquenessing, Pennsylvania, concerning the death of his son Myrl,
							which occurred in May, 1903. The child had scarlet fever. A number of children in the
							village where he lived had been having what was called "three days' rash," a skin
							disease. The children of the Hoffman family and also of another family near by were
							attacked with something which at first appeared to be the rash, but afterwards proved
							to be of more severe nature. The boy Myrl was prayed for, and about the same time the
							board of health physician was consulted, as the symptoms showed that he had something
							like fever. The physician came and found him in no dangerous condition after prayer
							had been offered, and for several days he was apparently almost well. Two of their
							children were healed by the power of God in answer to prayer. The doctor was consulted
							concerning the food and care, etc., and it was found that they were doing all that
							could be done for the child. After some time had elapsed, he seemed to take a relapse,
							during which the physician called as a member of the board of health, to examine the
							child. But he was unable to, advise further  than what
							was already being done. This last severe affliction did not last over about
							forty-eight hours until the child died.

						Another doctor, a minister, and a few others agitated the matter of having Brother
							Hoffman arrested on the following indictment:

						"In the Court of Oyner and Terminer General Jail Delivery for the County of Butler,
							Pennsylvania.

						No. 46 May Sessions, 1903.

						"Butler County ss.

						"The Grand Inquest of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania inquiring in and for the
							County of Butler on their respective oaths and affirmations do present: That Henry
							Hoffman, late of the said County, yeoman, on the 18th day of May, in the year of our
							Lord one thousand nine hundred and three, in the County of Butler, Pennsylvania, and
							within the jurisdiction of this Court, with force and arms one Myrl Hoffman in the
							peace of the Commonwealth then and there being, then and there unlawfully did kill,
							and slay, contrary to the form of the Act of the General Assembly in such case made
							and provided and against the peace and dignity of the Commonwealth of
							Pennsylvania.

						"And the Grand Inquest aforesaid upon their respective oaths and affirmations
							aforesaid do further present that the said Henry Hoffman on the 18th day of May, 1903,
							in the County of Butler, Pennsylvania, and within the jurisdiction of this court, with
							force and arms one Myrl Hoffman then and there being an infant son of the said Henry
							Hoffman of tender age, to wit, two and one-half years, and unable to provide and care
							for himself, and being in the charge and custody and parental care and  under the direction and supervision of the said Henry
							Hoffman, unlawfully and wilfully did neglect, on account of and by reason of said
							neglect, the said Myrl Hoffman from about the first day of May, 1903, to the 10th day
							of May in the same year at the County aforesaid did suffer and languish and so
							suffering and languishing on the said 10th day of May, 1903, did die, and the Grand
							Inquest aforesaid upon their respective oaths and affirmations do say that the said
							Henry Hoffman, the said Myrl Hoffman in manner and form aforesaid, unlawfully did kill
							and slay, contrary to the form of the Act of General Assembly in such case made and
							provided and against the peace and dignity of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.

						John Henninger,

						District Attorney."

						One of the principal objects in the trial was to stop the practise of divine healing,
							and compel the people to procure doctors and take medicine. A few days after the death
							one of the brethren wrote to the State board of health in Pennsylvania concerning the
							requirements of the law regarding medicine and doctors; and the secretary of the State
							board of health replied under date of May 19, 1903, as follows: 
								
									
										"I would say that there is no law in this State to compel parents to have a
											physician or to give medicine to their children in case of sickness. There is
											a law, however, requiring cases of contagious diseases to be reported to the
											authorities, and there is a heavy penalty for refusing to comply with this
											law. It is necessary to have a physician in case of eruptive or other
											communicable diseases in order to determine their true character. But even in
											such cases,  it is not required that the patient
											should take medicine.
										
											Yours very truly,
											Benjamin Lee,
										
										Secretary."
									
								
							
						

						At the trial almost everything in the line of divine healing was objected to by the
							prosecutor and ruled out by the judge. Brother Hoffman or the witnesses were not
							permitted to testify, without objection, to the healing of his other two children nor
							the help that the boy who died had received in answer to prayer, nor were they allowed
							to speak of other cases of healing through answer to prayer. The prosecutor objecting
							because the witnesses were not considered capable of giving expert testimony. The only
							persons allowed to give full testimony were the physicians, as they were considered
							experts. Finally one brother was put on the stand as an expert. Hie had studied
							physiology and hygiene under a practising physician while in school and had a diploma
							for teaching the same, also understood the doctrines and teachings of divine healing.
							Therefore he could not be ruled out under the objection of not being able to give
							expert testimony; and after considerable disputations between the lawyers and the
							judge, the witness was allowed to proceed, and in answer to certain questions was
							permitted to explain the methods and practises of divine healing, giving the Word of
							God on the subject. Finally the prosecutor objected to the testimony, stating that it
							did not pertain to the case before the court. The objections were sustained by the
							judge, but the truth of divine healing had been set forth to the jury and those
							present.

						The physician who was a member of the board of health and visited the Hoffman home
							during the sickness  of the child was called to the
							witness stand. In answer to questions, he stated the number of times he had visited
							the home during the child's sickness, and that so far as he could observe the child
							had proper care and attention and was doing well, with the exception of the last time
							he called, when it was suffering and near death, and that had he been permitted to
							minister to the child, he could have done nothing to save its life. He was asked
							whether under such circumstances and condition of the child during his former visits
							there, he would advise the use of medicines, when the child was getting along so well
							and had the care that was being given, to which he replied that he would not consider
							it necessary to give any further treatment than that which was being given. This
							doctor testified that the necessary precautions concerning such a disease were
							observed, and the proper attention given to the child. Three other physicians were
							called to the witness stand, all of whom objected to trusting the sick in the care of
							the Lord, and insisted upon using medical treatment. The attorney for the defendant
							asked one of the doctors what system of medicine should be administered. The doctor
							replied that any recognized system would be all right. Then lie was asked what system
							he would recommend, to which he replied, "Certainly I would recommend the Allopathic
							system." "Would it be all right and proper to administer the Homeopathic?" The doctor
							considered that it would.

						The attorney asked, "Is it not a fact that the Allopathic method is in direct
							opposition to the Homeopathic method of treatment?"

						"It is," he replied.

						"Then, why would you advise either or both of them?"

						"Because they are recognized systems," was the reply.

						

						"Doctor, does not your medicine contain poison?"

						"Yes, sir."

						"Now, Doctor, suppose I had two children, say they were twins four years of age. One
							of them becomes sick. I call upon you, believing you to be competent in your
							profession; and, after a lingering sickness, the child dies under your treatment. In a
							short time the other child becomes sick; and having learned of some who recovered
							through careful nursing or by trusting in prayer, I refuse to procure you or adhere to
							the administration of medical aid; and after a time this second child dies. Who is
							held responsible for the death of the child?"

						"You are," the doctor replied.

						"Why am I responsible?"

						"Because you did not procure the medical aid within your reach."

						"But, Doctor, you let my first child die. Were you not responsible for the death of
							that child as much as I was responsible for the death of the second?"

						"No, sir."

						"Why not?"

						"Because all possible means were used for its recovery."

						"But you let my first child die, and therefore I had no assurance of your help, and
							used the best methods I knew for the second. Then, why do you think I should be more
							responsible for the death of the child than you would be?"

						"Because you did not procure medical aid."

						Notwithstanding the fact that the law does not require the use of medicine, and that
							the letter from the State board of health was read to the court, and the statement by
							the doctor that every dose of his medicine contained poison, yet the doctors, the
							lawyers, and the judge were  determined to require
							people to comply with their murderous system of treatment.

						The brother who was placed upon the witness stand to set forth the doctrine of divine
							healing was asked the following questions by the judge together with many others:

						"Have you been to college?"

						"Yes, sir."

						"Did you study physiology and hygiene under a practising physician?"

						"Yes, sir."

						"Did you graduate in college?"

						"Yes, sir."

						"Did you graduate in the study of medicine?"

						"No, sir. I studied physiology and hygiene and passed my grade in those branches, but
							did not study medicine."

						"I beg to say, Your Honor, he found a better system," replied the attorney for the
							defendant.

						"Have you studied and practised divine healing?"

						"Yes, sir."

						"How long?"

						"Over sixteen years."

						"How many cases have been cured under your system of healing?"

						"I have witnessed the healing of thousands of persons during that time."

						"Of what kind of diseases?"

						"Almost every kind of disease with which I have come in contact."

						"Have you known of any cases of the healing of scarlet fever?"

						"Yes, sir."

						"Does the State grant you a diploma for the practise of divine healing?"

						

						"No, sir, the State does not grant a diploma, but it does recognize our rights and
							privileges on that line."

						"In what way are those rights recognized?"

						"They are the privileges granted to the church."

						"To what church have you reference?"

						"To the church of God."

						"Does the church to which you belong give you authority to practise divine
							healing?"

						"Yes, sir."

						"In what way?"

						"I am an ordained elder of the church of God; and the duties of an elder of the
							church are to fulfil the Word of God, which sets forth the office and duties of an
							elder."

						The judge told the attorney that he might proceed with his questions.

						The attorney said, "Witness, you may now state the duties of an elder in case of a
							sickness."

						"It is the duty of an elder when called for, to visit the sick and pray for
							them."

						"And you do this?"

						"Yes, sir."

						"Why do you do it?"

						"Because the Word of God instructs us to do it. In the fifth chapter of James it
							says, 'Is any sick among you, let him call for the elders of the church; and let them
							pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord: and the prayer of faith
							shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise him up.'"

						,"Do you administer any medicines?"

						"No, sir."

						"Why do you not administer medicines?"

						"Because the Word of God does not teach us to do so."

						"What kind of hygienic treatment do you advise?"

						

						"Proper nursing and care concerning food, ventilation, bathing, etc."

						"Will you tell us now how you proceed to treat a patient who sends for you in time of
							sickness?"

						"When called to visit the sick, if they have the proper standard of faith, I
							immediately anoint them and pray for them according to the Word of God."

						"And they sometimes get healed?"

						"Yes, sir."

						"About how long a time does it take for the healing to be performed?"

						"It is generally instantaneous. It sometimes requires some time for them to gain
							their former strength, as in the olden times we read of one person who 'began to amend
							from that hour.'"

						"But in case they do not seem to have the proper faith, what do you do?"

						"In such cases I begin by teaching them to get them to the point where they can
							exercise faith, or in case they are not capable of understanding because of their
							sickness their friends are instructed. My reasons for first teaching the sick the way
							of faith where their faith does not seem to be up to the standard is from the example
							that Jesus gave in the fourth chapter of Matthew, twenty-third verse. It says, 'And
							Jesus went about all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, and preaching the gospel
							of the kingdom, and healing all manner of sickness and all manner of disease among the
							people.' First he taught them, then healed them. After this he gave his twelve
							disciples the same power and authority, and sent them forth to preach and to heal the
							sick. Mat. 10: 1. Then he sent out the Seventy and gave them the same power and
							authority, of which we read concerning them in the tenth chapter of St. Luke. After
							his death  and resurrection and before his ascension, he
							said to his followers: 'Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every
							creature. He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he that believeth not
							shall be damned. And these signs shall follow them that believe ... they shall lay
							hands on the sick and they shall recover.' Mark 16: 15-18. After this he gave the same
							authority and power to Paul and others. In the twelfth chapter of First Corinthians,
							ninth verse, is mentioned concerning the gifts of healing given to certain ones in the
							church. The signs mentioned were to follow believers, those who believe the Word of
							God. This is to be in vogue as long as God has a church on earth and as long as there
							are believers in the church. The instructions given to believers who are sick are
							given in James 5: 14, 15, which says they are to send for the elders of the church,
							and the elders are to pray for their healing, and the Lord is to do the raising up
							when the prayer of faith is offered. It does not say anything about sending for
							doctors, nor advise the taking of medicines."

						The doctors were obliged to admit to the court that the people were constantly
							suffering and dying under their treatment, yet they were quite unwilling for any one
							to suffer and die without medical treatment.

						When the case was presented to the jury, the judge gave his final charge to the jury,
							after having ruled out almost everything possible concerning divine healing. The
							attorney stated that it was one of the most rigid charges that he had ever heard given
							to the jury. At nine o'clock in the morning the jury went into council and continued
							until after five o'clock in the afternoon. There were a few among them who were
							conscientious, but were finally persuaded by others who were in opposition to divine
							healing, and  they rendered a decision of guilty. The
							next morning when court was called and the decision of the jury read finding him
							guilty of "killing his son" (by not giving him medicine), there was no officer to take
							him in charge. He was permitted to go into another room, and from there took a stroll
							down town with no concern about his escape. The reason for this was, they knew he was
							not a guilty man, had all confidence in him, and did not really want to see him
							punished; while there were others, doubtless, who would have been glad to see him
							suffer the penalty of a murderer because he believed in divine healing. One of the
							doctor's remarked that it would be well to make an example of him, thinking this would
							intimidate others, insomuch that they would fear to practise divine healing, and would
							pay the doctors fees to have them administer their poisonous drugs.

						After the verdict was rendered and before the sentence was given, the attorney for
							the defendant asked for a suspension of sentence and the hearing for a new trial.
							These favors were granted by the judge. This being the September term of court, 1903,
							the time for the hearing and arguments for a new trial was postponed until March,
							1904.

						At the close of the trial, after the verdict was given, as we were passing down the
							steps from the court-house, a brother remarked, "God will surely avenge his servant
							for the proceedings of this day, and make th people who have been opposing this truth
							willing to call upon Him for help."

						During the trial the doctors, the lawyers, and the judge laid great stress upon the
							danger of spreading diseases through the "fanatical" practise of those who believe in
							divine healing. They also set forth how contagious diseases could be checked and
							eliminated from the community by the prompt action of the physicians.
					

					

					

						THE PLAGUE-VISITED CITY.

						There were several things connected with this affair that makes it seem much like the
							judgment of God rested upon the people because of their opposition to the truth. The
							doctor who was foremost in the beginning in his threats of prosecution and with the
							most bitter persecutions, fell dead shortly before the trial one day while walking the
							streets. Soon after the trial one of the best business blocks of the city, which
							contained a number of lawyers' offices, was destroyed by fire. Within six weeks from
							the time the verdict was rendered, typhoid fever broke out in the city of Butler,
							where the trial was held. The doctors were called upon to treat the cases and check
							the disease; but it increased week after week, so that within a few weeks' time there
							were 1,277 cases in the city of Butler, out of which number there were 111 deaths. Two
							doctors had the fever, and one of them died; two lawyers had the fever, and one of
							them died; one minister had the fever and died. Physicians and nurses were sent from
							other cities to aid them, but the disease continued to rage from about the first of
							November till February. Yet no effort was made to prosecute the doctors nor the
							friends of those who died.

						Brother Hoffman was not at any time taken to, prison, but was out under bail; and
							during the September, 1904, term of court, the case was dismissed with suspension of
							sentence.

						In the State of Indiana during the month of August, 1904, there were four hundred and
							eighty-five cases of typhoid fever, from which number there were one hundred deaths.
							In the corresponding month of last year there were four hundred and ninety-six cases,
							with one hundred and eight deaths. These were treated by physicians and considered to
							be all right and properly handled because of their excellent (?) treatment.
					

					

					

						ANSWERS TO PRAYER.

						THE Lord is one who is able to fulfil the desires and answer the
							petitions of the faithful and obedient. Circumstances sometimes hinder the proper
							exercise of faith that will bring the fulfilment of the petition. It is, however, most
							generally the case that such circumstances are unnecessary hindrances. Our privileges
							and opportunities for doing good are limited only by our faith, and our faith is
							bounded by the Word of God. Most Christians are living far beneath their privileges in
							the joys of salvation. The greater number of those who profess to be Christians have
							a "terrible" time in their efforts to bring the standard of the Bible down to justify
							them in their life of sin and unbelief. Their religion consists only of form and
							profession, "denying the power thereof," doubting that others live pure lives, because
							they are so far from the truth themselves; and, like the Pharisees of old, they will
							not believe, even though the power of God is manifested before their eyes. They even
							become enraged at the truth, or when there is a manifestation of the power of God.
							Human nature is the same now as it was in the days of the apostles; the devil is the
							same; neither has God nor his promises changed.

						When the lame man was healed at the gate Beautiful, the Pharisees and others became
							enraged against Peter and John, not because they had done some evil thing, but because
							the man was healed by the power of God. Had the man been so miraculously cured by the
							physicians, probably no one would have become enraged over the matter. A similar
							circumstance took place a few years ago, when the same unbelief and spirit of enmity
							were manifested.

						

						In June, 1895, at a camp-meeting near Grand Junction, Michigan, a day had been
							appointed as a day of fasting and prayer, that God might manifest his power in the
							salvation of souls and the healing of the sick. Many were healed and testified to the
							same; but among the great number of those who were healed, there was one special case,
							which we desire to mention for the glory of God. A young man had come to the meeting a
							few days before, who had once been saved, and came with the intention of giving
							himself to the Lord again. On Saturday evening, the day before the fasting and prayer,
							when he went to care for his horses one of them kicked him, striking him in the
							stomach and on the shoulder and breast, dislocating his left shoulder, cracking or
							breaking some of his ribs, and knocking him senseless to the ground. He was picked up,
							but no one seemed to know who he was, nor where he was from. However, he was carried
							into a tent, and some of the brethren gathered around him, and asked God to restore
							him, that he might be able to make known unto them who he was. In a few minutes he was
							restored to consciousness, and he told his name and stated that his mother was on the
							ground. She was sent for, and it was learned that she was saved and a strong believer
							in divine healing.

						The young man did not want a doctor, although he was yet unsaved. However, some one
							who was unsaved took the responsibility upon himself to go for a doctor. But before he
							arrived, the brethren had set the dislocated shoulder. When the doctor came, he
							examined it and found that it had been dislocated, and that there were serious
							internal injuries which were liable to cause death at almost any time. He bandaged the
							arm and shoulder, and ordered that it be left in that condition. The young  man rallied to a state of consciousness again. Upon
							learning that the doctor had been there and had bandaged his arm, he immediately took
							off the bandage, as he did not intend that the doctor have any of the praise in case
							the healing was accomplished. He soon became unconscious again, in which state he
							remained most of the night, during which time his sufferings were intense. The next
							day was Sunday, and about ten thousand people were assembled. As they passed by or
							crowded around, they witnessed his sufferings, as he lay in the room of an open
							tent.

						Much prayer was offered in his behalf, and finally he was relieved sufficiently that
							he could give his heart to the Lord, and yet after accepting salvation once more, for
							some time he did not feel the Lord could trust him with his healing on account of his
							past unfaithfulness. Many threats were made by opposers of the truth, stating that the
							man was dying and not allowed the help of a physician, and that if he died in that
							condition the children of God should be prosecuted. Mobs of angry men and women were
							gathered together here and there, talking over the affair and planning what should be
							done and the proper course to pursue in case of his death, which they felt was sure to
							take place soon. The truth of the matter was, the young man would not have a
							physician, would not take a dose of medicine, nor permit it to be put upon his
							body.

						Through the faithful prayers of the children of God, in the afternoon he was
							persuaded to take the Lord for his physician and be healed to the glory of God. He
							concluded to fulfil the Word, and send for the elders of the church and be anointed
							according to James 5: 14, 15. Just as we were ready to pray for him, an officer of the
							law who was standing near by said, "If that man dies, these people will have to stand
							the consequences." But this did not  stagger our faith,
							neither did the sight of the afflictions of the young man, because our faith was in
							the Lord and our eyes fixed upon Him, and we knew He had power to raise him up. And
							there before a large crowd of witnesses, unbelievers and skeptics, we gathered around
							the suffering one and had prayer, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord, then
							laid hands upon him and asked the Lord to heal him, believing that he would do it;
							then we stepped aside and told the young man to arise in the name of the Lord and be
							well. He sat up and put on his shoes, then his vest, reaching back, without any
							injury, with the arm that had been dislocated. His short breathing and gasping for
							breath ceased before we took our hands off his body. He arose and walked across the
							room praising God, and then walked out upon the platform in front of the house and
							testified to a great mass of people. This he did three times before sitting down. The
							result of his healing was that many people believed on the Lord for salvation and
							healing; yet there were some who stood and witnessed the same who would not
							believe.

						One woman who had been in the room a short time before he was healed went away for a
							few minutes. As she was returning, she heard that the man was healed.

						"Now, if he really is healed," she said to her friend, "I presume we shall have to
							believe it, shall we not?"

						"I suppose so," her friend replied.

						When they entered the room, she stood staring at him in great astonishment, then
							said:

						"Well, I wish I could have seen this done; I think I could have believed then."

						"Did you not see him before he was healed?" I asked.

						"Yes, sir; I saw him less than an hour ago."

						

						"Did you believe there was anything seriously the matter with him?"

						"Yes," she said, "I thought he was dying, and I believe he was dying."

						"You see him now; do you believe that he is healed?"

						"He looks like it." And turning to him, she said, "Are you healed?"

						Clenching his fist, which before he was unable to do because of the dislocation of
							his shoulder and other injuries received on that side, he smote his chest several
							blows upon the injured parts to convince her that he was perfectly well. She stood in
							amazement for a few moments, then replied, "I wish I could have seen it done; I think
							I could have believed it then." I told her that had she seen him lying there dead for
							a week and then raised up in her presence, she would not have believed it was done by
							the power of God, any more than she believed this healing to have been done by the
							power of God. She said she must surely be filled with a spirit of unbelief.

						Some had made such threats, and said that they knew he was dying, and the only way to
							get out of it was to add another falsehood, similar to the one referred to in Mat.
							28:13. They reported that the man died and that while we were gathered around him the
							dead man was carried into another part of the house, and that some one else took his
							place and got up before the people. But the whole affair was done in the sight of the
							multitude, and the devil could not help himself. There was the man who had been
							injured, who had been examined by a physician, who would not take his medicine, nor
							permit it to be put upon his body; and now he stood before them, sound and well.

						

						A brother who lived in Chicago, a few years ago stopped with us for a few days, and
							then went to Indiana and stopped at a place where there were those who opposed divine
							healing and were not willing to receive the truth, and some of them were even
							rejecting the truth that was being presented. During his stay there it had been
							raining, and as he stepped outside and was about to go down a short flight of stairs,
							his feet slipped and his hand struck against something, breaking the bone of his thumb
							above the second joint. Some present were very much excited and desired a physician
							called; but he told them his trust was in the Lord. Although he was suffering much
							pain, he would have no medicine, nor anything put on for a relief, but felt that God
							should have all the praise and glory. There were, however, two of God's children
							present who had faith for healing, and they had prayer and laid hands upon the broken
							thumb, and the Lord instantly healed him, insomuch that he lifted his hand before them
							and had full use of his thumb. This resulted in the salvation of a soul, and turned
							others to the belief of the gospel.
					

					

					

						ANCIENT MOUND AT MOUNDSVILLE, W. VA., U. S. A.

						IN America there are a number of large mounds built by a people
							known as the Mound-builders. One of the largest and most noted of these mounds is
							situated near the center of the city of Moundsville, West Virginia. The following
							description is from "History and Government of West Virginia":

						"This mound is one of the greatest prehistoric monuments in America. It is two
							hundred and forty-five feet in diameter at the base; seventy-nine in height, with apex
								 flat and fifty feet in diameter. The first white man
							who saw it, so far as known, was Joseph Tomlinson, who built his cabin near it in
							1770. Soon after, while hunting, he came upon a strange-looking hill rising abruptly
							from the level plain. Proceeding to his cabin, he returned with his wife, and the two
							made the ascent, where they stood upon the summit-the first English-speaking people on
							the top of this, one of the greatest mounds on the continent. From that day to this it
							has stood the wonder of all beholders, and such, if not destroyed by the hand of man,
							it will continue to be through centuries to come. The mound was opened in 1838, a
							tunnel ten feet wide and seven high being made along the natural surface to the center
							(a distance of one hundred and eleven feet) to a vault. Then a shaft was sunk from the
							apex to connect with the tunnel. Two large vaults were discovered, which contained
							human skeletons, copper rings, bracelets, plates of mica, ivory beads and ornaments.
							Within two feet of one of the skeletons was found the Inscribed Stone.

						"This stone was found in the M3ammoth Mound in 183S. The inscription is in unknown
							characters, resembling those used by the Scandinavian priests before the introduction
							of the Roman alphabet. It has never been deciphered, and nothing like it has ever been
							found in America. It has attracted more attention from scientists and antiquarians at
							home and abroad than any other relic found in the United States. The characters are
							now conceded to be of European origin, and, if this be true, then there is evidence
							that Europeans visited this continent before the coming of Columbus. But who were
							they? No reply can be made beyond the fact that they were of those acquainted with
							some ancient alphabet known and used along the coast and among the islands of the
							European continent. Powell, the 
							
								ANCIENT MOUND AT MOUNDSVILLE, W. VA., U. S. A.
							
							 antiquarian, says: 'Four of the characters correspond
							to the ancient Greek, four to the Etruscan, five to the Norse, six to the Gaelic,
							seven to the old Erse, and ten to the Phnician.' Certain it is that these characters
							were those of the ancient rock alphabet consisting of right and acute angled strokes
							used by the Pelasgi and other early Mediterranean people, and which is the parent of
							the modern Runic, as well as of the Bardic. How came this stone to be in a West
							Virginia mound is a question which scientists and antiquarians will continue to ask,
							but one which will never be answered."
					

					

					

						CONCLUSIVE REMARKS.

						IN this great battle of life, with all its varied experiences, it
							is impossible for us to look forward and know just what the future will bring forth,
							or the victories, the trials and the disappointments to be encountered by the
							developments of time.

						The enemy of souls is to be met in the open field; but He who said, "All power is
							given unto Me in heaven and in earth," gives the victory to all who will move at His
							command. Some who read these lines may be in adverse circumstances, domestic or
							financial difficulties, oppressed, discouraged, tried and tempted; if so, remember the
							Word of God is true, and the Lord yet mighty to deliver. It matters not in what land
							your lot has been cast, nor what your condition may be, there is help out of all your
							troubles and difficulties, and victory for you over all the powers of the enemy.

						Jesus Christ came to seek and to save those who are lost in the darkness of sin, and
							to fill their souls with joy and gladness. The power and presence of the Lord will
							even  penetrate the prison walls and set the captive
							souls free. He will help the weak Christian to rise and assert his liberty and freedom
							from the whisperings and accusations of Satan. Perfect trust in the Lord and obedience
							to him will make the experiences along the way glorious, and the pathway of life
							strewn with roses to hide the thorns.

						"Now unto him that is able to do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think,
							according to the power that worketh in us, unto him be glory in the church by Christ
							Jesus throughout all ages, world without end. Amen."
					
				
			
			
		

		

			
			
				Advertisement
				
					 The Secret of Salvation:
						HOW TO GET IT, AND HOW TO KEEP IT.

					By E. E. Byrum. It very thoroughly explains what salvation is, who can have it, whether
						it can be obtained in this life or not. In fact, it gives the secret of obtaining it and
						keeping it. It tells both by experience and by scripture what God has done for others,
						and what he will do for all who meet the proper requirements. It gives encouragement to
						the soul in trouble and tells how help may be received. "'How to Make the Lord Hear" and
						"How to Make the Lord Answer" are two very interesting chapters. " Temptations" and
						''How to Overcome Them" will be helpful to every one trying to live a true Christian
						life. Many incidents of how the Lord has heard and answered prayer in these times are
						given. It also tells how you can be healed by divine power. Illustrated. Published also
						in German. 403 pages. Price, cloth, $1.00. Paper, 35c.
				
				
					
				

				

					Man, His Present and Future.

					By H. M. Riggle. Many desire to know the privileges of man in this life and the life to
						come. What will become of his soul and body at death and in the resurrection. These and
						many other puzzling questions answered in this book. 206 pages. Price, cloth, 50c.

					

					GOSPEL TRUMPET COMPANY, ANDERSON, INDIANA.

				

				

				

					Letters of Love and Counsel for "Our Girls."

					By Jennie C. Rutty. As the title implies, the book is composed of letters to girls,
						written by a Christian mother. It states in a plain, interesting manner the proper
						advice that all girls seek. As only a mother can handle, the vital subjects which
						confront every girl of our land are handled in a way that will be elevating to her
						character. The subjects of Pleasure, Amusements, Society Life, Dancing, Social Evils,
						Love and Marriage, and scores of others are not only interesting but instructive. Every
						girl should have one of these books. Illustrated. 331 pages. Price, cloth, $1.00. Paper,
						35c.
				

				
					
				

				
					Mothers' Counsel to Their Sons.

					By Jennie C. Rutty. The author, being a Christian mother, gives valuable advice to
						boys. The subjects of Companionship, Education, Habits, Intemperance, Secret Sin, Social
						Purity, Courtship and Marriage, Business, and most every other subject that comes to a
						young man in life, are handled in a note-worthy manner. Also testimonies from many
						fathers and mothers are given on different subjects, setting forth evils of this day, as
						well as good advice. This book placed in a boy's hands may save him from many pitfalls
						and final ruin. 436 pages. Price, cloth, $1.00.

					

					GOSPEL TRUMPET COMPANY, ANDERSON, INDIANA.
				

				

				
					Favorite Stories from the New Testament.

					By Isabel C. Byrum. A companion to "Beautiful Stories from the Good Old Book." In this
						book the author narrates in language suited to children the incidents and events
						connected with the life of Christ and the labors of the apostles. It is printed in
						plain type and profusely illustrated. Also a number of interesting poems are given.
						Beautiful binding and cover design. A colored frontispiece represents Christ walking on
						the sea. A good book for children. Price, cloth, $1.00.
				

				
					
				

				
					Beautiful Stories from the Good Old Book.

					By Isabel C. Byrum. The incidents and events of the Bible are told both in picture and
						in story in simple language easily understood by children. Pictures of most of the
						important events mentioned in the Bible are interwoven in its pages. It also contains a
						number of good poems on the different subjects. Has a beautiful cover, and colored
						frontispiece of Daniel in the lions' den. Both old and young will find it interesting
						and instructive. 315 pages. Price, cloth. $1.00.

					

					GOSPEL TRUMPET COMPANY, ANDERSON, INDIANA.
				

				

				
					Divine Healing of Soul and Body.

					By E. E. Byrum. This book gives plain truths how the sinner may receive God's peace to
						his troubled soul. It also answers the questions as to whether or not the day of healing
						the body by God's power is past. It tells how all hindrances may be removed so that
						every sick person may be healed in these days. About half of the book is devoted to
						testimonies of persons who have within the last few years been healed of blindness,
						crushed arm, broken bones, tumor, heart-diseases, catarrh, consumption, cancer,
						insanity, nervous prostration, and many other kinds of sickness and disease. If you are
						afflicted or have a friend or neighbor who is, get them a book; and if they meet the
						proper conditions, they can soon be well. Published also in German. 256 pages. Price,
						cloth, $1.00. Paper, 35c.
				

				
					
				

				
					The Holy Spirit and Other Spirits.

					By D. O. Teasley. It explains the workings, leading, and benefits of the Holy Spirit,
						and what it has done and will do for us now; also the penalty of sinning against it, or
						the unpardonable sin. Many other spirits are explained, such as Spiritualism, Hypnotism,
						Magnetic Healing, and Christian Science. 380 pages. Price, cloth, $1.00.

					

					GOSPEL TRUMPET COMPANY, ANDERSON, INDIANA.
				

				

				
					What Is the Soul?
					By D. S. Warner. One hundred scriptures proving that man possesses a spiritual and
						moral element called the Soul, the Spirit, the Inner Man, which goes to God at the
						death of the body. The same also proved by early church history. 82 pages. Price, paper,
						10c.
				

				

				
					Two Works of Grace.

					By H. M. Riggle. A work in which justification and sanctification are set forth as two
						separate works of grace. It points out the way by which the two works may be obtained,
						and sets forth the Bible standard of each. Published also in German. 90 pages. Price,
						paper, 10c.
				

				

				
					The Ordinances of the Bible.

					By E. E. Byrum. This little book gives both the Old and the New Testament teachings on
						the ordinances-those which were done away and those still to be observed. It shows which
						is the proper mode of baptism, and which is not. It also explains concerning the Lord's
						Supper, feet-washing, etc. Illustrated. 116 pages. Published also in German. Price,
						cloth, 35c. Paper, 15c.
				

				

				
					How We Got Our Bible.

					By E. E. Byrum. A small book of 128 pages containing three chapters. It gives the
						author's experience in examining the old Greek manuscripts in the Vatican at Rome, and
						in museums and libraries in other places. It tells how the Scriptures were handed down
						from century to century and bridges over the chasm between the time of the apostles and
						the date of the manuscripts that have been discovered. Also a translation is given of an
						old Latin manuscript, being the report of Pontius Pilate to Tiberius Csar of the
						arrest, trial, and crucifixion of Jesus Christ. A very interesting and instructive
						little book. Price, paper, 15c.

					

					SEND FOR CATALOGUE OF BOOKS, TRACTS, ETC.

					

					GOSPEL TRUMPET COMPANY, ANDERSON, INDIANA.
				

				

				
					Salvation; Present, Perfect, Now or Never.

					This little book tells in a very concise manner what salvation means, what it does for
						us, and what it keeps us from doing. It also explains when it can be obtained and when
						it can not. Words of encouragement and cheerfulness fill its pages. Published also in
						German. 118 pages. Price, cloth, 35c. Paper, 15c.
				

				

				
					Bible Humility.

					This book shows examples and benefits of this grace; also of that which Jesus possessed
						and that experienced by Paul. It also shows the evils of pride and worldly adornment.
						56 pages. Price, 5c.
				

				

				
					The Boy's Companion.

					By E. E. Byrum. This is a very interesting book for the boys and much valuable
						instruction is given, besides several chapters are written by persons who are, or were,
						in prison, showing how dangerous and wrong it is to break the moral law as well as the
						laws of our land. It also sets forth the great danger of the bad habits which so many
						boys get into and shows the way to true manhood and virtue. Illustrated. 92 pages.
						Price, cloth, 25c. Paper, 10c.
				
				

				

					Christian Conduct;
						OR, THE WAY TO HEAVEN.

					The conduct of a Christian has its influences in many ways and this book aims to point
						toward the proper way. The duty of a Christian, of a husband to his wife, and of a wife
						to her husband, of parents to their children, and the effect of Christianity in public
						life, in habit, dress, etc., are very thoroughly explained. Many other subjects are
						clearly set forth by a Christian author. Price, cloth, 25c. Paper, 10c.

					

					SEND FOR CATALOGUE OF BOOKS, TRACTS, ETC.

					

					GOSPEL TRUMPET COMPANY, ANDERSON, INDIANA.
				

				

				
					Sanctification.

					By J. W. Byers. The author sets forth the subject from a Bible standpoint, in a clear,
						plain way, so as to be easily understood by all seekers after truth. Many puzzling
						questions are asked and answered which will prove helpful to the reader. 112 pages.
						Price, paper, 10c.
				

				

				
					What Shall I Do to Be Saved?

					After realizing himself a sinner, the first question that enters a person's mind is,
						"What shall I do to be saved?" The object of this book is to awaken the sinner to his
						condition, point out the source of deliverance, and teach hint how to obtain the
						experience of salvation, as well as to point out the snares and deceptions of the enemy
						of souls. Nicely illustrated. 200 pages. Price, cloth, 50c. Paper, 25c.
				

				

				

					The Sabbath and the Lord's Day.

					By H. M. Riggle. This book shows in a clear and positive manner-The origin of the Old
						Testament Sabbath (seventh day) observance. When it was first enjoined upon man. That it
						was ceremonial in its nature, and was abolished, with the rest of the Old Testament
						system, at the time all was fulfilled in Christ. That it was typical of a spiritual rest
						in Christ.

					It also shows-That the Jewish Sabbath was not to be observed during the Christian
						dispensation. That the observance of the New Testament Lord's Day (first day of the
						week) was established by example of the disciples and the early Christians. That the
						Lord's Day was prefigured in the Old Testament. That the idea that the Pope changed the
						Sabbath is wrong. This book is a very complete refutation of the arguments advanced by
						the seventh-day observers. It will enlighten you on the Sabbath question. It is the
						clearest and most convincing work of the kind that we have ever published or seen. Get
						it and read it. 238 pages. Illustrated. Price, cloth, 50c. Paper, 25c.

					

					GOSPEL TRUMPET COMPANY, ANDERSON, INDIANA.
				
			
		
	

