
     ----CITATION---- 
        Chapman, J. Wilbur (John Wilbur),
                            1859-1918.. The man who said he would. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2011).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAB9266
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        




            

            

                
                    The Man Who Said  He Would 
                

                By the
                    Rev. J. Wilbur Chapman, D. D., Author of" The Secret
                    of A Happy Day," "Day by Day," "From Life to Life," Spiritual Life in
                    the Sunday School," etc., etc. 


                
                    United Society of Christian Endeavor
                    Boston and Chicago
                

            

            

            
                Verso
                Copyright, 1902

                BY THE

                UNITED SOCIETY OF CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR
                
            

            

            
                Dedication

                TO THE REV. S. C. DICKEY, D. D.,
                    AN HONORED SERVANT OF GOD, THIS BOOK IS AFFECTIONATELY
                        DEDICATED
            

            

            


            
                Contents
                


                    
                        CHAP.
                         PAGE
                    


                    
                        I. THE MAN WHO SAID HE WOULD -—AND DID N'T - - - - 9
                    

                    
                        II. THE MAN WHO SAID HE WOULD -—AND WOULD N'T  - - - 28
                    

                    
                        III. THE MAN WHO SAID HE WOULD —AND COULD N'T - - - 49
                    

                    
                         IV. THE MAN WHO SAID HE WOULD —AND DID - - - - 68
                    
                
            

            

            

            
                Introduction.

                FOR the suggestion of the outline of this book I am indebted
                    to the pastors of the churches in Middletown, Ohio, and for permission to use
                    the same to the Rev. W. Hamil Shields, pastor of the First Presbyterian
                    Church.

                 This message is sent forth with the prayer that God may help us all to lay hold
                    upon Him who will enable us to fulfil and perform our resolutions.
            



            
        
        
            
                The man who said he would

                


                
                    CHAPTER I.THE MAN WHO SAID HE
                            WOULD—AND
                        DIDN'T.


                    
                        Texts: Though I should die with thee, yet
                            will I .not deny thee.—
                        MATTHEW 26 : 35.
                         Then began he to curse and to swear, saying, I know
                            not the man.—
                        MATTHEW 26: 74.
                    


                    IT would not be possible to imagine a greater contrast
                        than that which is presented in the reading of these two texts of Scripture.
                        In the one we are surrounded by that peculiar kind of atmosphere which
                        always attends a confession of Christ, and we find our hearts glowing as we
                        too say with Peter: "Dear Lord, this is exactly our own thought. We would
                        die for thee a thousand times,  if that were
                        possible, rather than deny thee once." In the experience of the second text
                        we are plunged into the depths of darkness. We find ourselves shuddering as
                        we say, "If the man who but a little time ago said he would die rather than
                        deny Christ can curse and swear and say he knows him not, what hope is there
                        for any of us ?"

                    There are but thirty-eight verses between these two experiences, all of which
                        leads me to say that we must walk carefully in the midst of this sinful and
                        adulterous generation, for we who are praising Christ to-day may be
                        crucifying him to-morrow, if for a little moment we take our eyes away from
                        him.

                    In James the third chapter, the eleventh and twelfth verses, we read: "Doth a
                        fountain send forth at the same place sweet water and bitter ? Can the
                        fig-tree, my brethren, bear olive berries ? either a vine figs ? so can no
                        fountain both yield salt water and fresh." Yet in these two texts which I
                        have quoted we have an illustration of the bitter waters and the  sweet coming forth from the same lips, for it
                        is the same man that is described by both the texts.

                    I do not know in any part of the Scriptures a better illustration of great
                        contrast. The pendulum which swings one way and thrills us as we hear the
                        words of loyalty of this disciple of Christ, swings quite as far the other
                        way, and we are plunged into despair when we find the same man denying with
                        oaths that he ever knew him.

                    We are all of us familiar with Stevenson's book, " Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde";
                        yet this story is no illustration of the man whose experience I here
                        portray, for Peter was not dishonest, neither was he hypocritical, but there
                        were two Peters speaking here. He himself speaks of the " hidden man of the
                        heart," and Paul describes our two natures, one of which is ours in natural
                        birth, and the other ours because of regeneration. In every one of us, if we
                        are Christians, these two natures are quite as distinct as our two hands. To
                        live in the flesh is at the cost of the 
                        spirit, while to live in the spirit is at the cost of the flesh; and these
                        words of Scripture above quoted present us an illustration of the fact that
                        any one of us may come to the place of denial if we turn our eyes away from
                        Christ and encourage within us that which is basest.

                    It would be well for us to learn, if possible, the uncleanness of the human
                        heart. The Old Testament declares it to be "deceitful above all things and
                        desperately wicked," while in the New Testament we read, " For from within,
                        out of the heart of men, proceed evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications,
                        murders, thefts, covetousness, wickedness, deceit, lasciviousness, an evil
                        eye, blasphemy, pride, foolishness; all these evil things come from within,
                        and defile the man" (Mark 7: 21-23). You might be incensed if I should make
                        this observation myself, but when God makes it we can only bow our heads in
                        shame and say, "Alas, this is too true I" Peter meant what he said in the
                        first Scripture; he was not a hypocrite. Hypocrisy was as foreign to his  nature as anything could possibly be. He never
                        could play the hypocrite; when he tried it, he made a dismal failure; yet
                        this man, who is naturally honest and really courageous, comes before us as
                        a great warning, and we look and grow afraid as we say, "If Peter falls, who
                        then can stand ? " We, too, have made certain promises to Christ and we have
                        failed; and, when I present to you the man who said he would and did n't, I
                        am but painting for you your own portrait; at least, portraying your own
                        past experience.

                    
                        I. SOME NOTES OF
                                WARNING.

                        First, let us learn that great prominence in the Christian life will not
                            keep us from falling. Peter was one of the chosen three; he was with
                            Jesus in the home of Jairus, on the mount of transfiguration, and in the
                            Garden of Gethsemane; yet he fell. Let us not imagine, because we may be
                            exalted in Christian service, that therefore there is little chance of
                            our denying Christ; even the  minister of
                            the gospel, the officer in the church, the superintendent of the
                            Sunday-school, and the faithful teacher of today may deny Christ
                            to-morrow, if for a moment the eyes of faith are taken away from him and
                            there is the least disposition or tendency to rely upon one's self.

                        Second, let us also learn that our danger is not where we are weakest; it
                            is because we have forgotten this that oftentimes we have fallen into
                            despair. Peter's characteristic was honesty, and yet he fell into
                            deceit; Peter's nature was courageous, and yet he gives an exhibition of
                            cowardice; Job was a most patient man, and yet became impatient. Do not
                            say that yoi will not fail at this point or that because there is your
                            strength, for in the consciousness of strength Satan may overthrow you.
                            I have found myself saying that I was quite sure that I should never
                            fall into sin so far as temptation to drink was concerned, but I have
                            studied Peter only to realize that the man that thinketh he  standeth ought to take heed lest he fall.
                            The chances are that you will never fail at your weak point, but rather
                            where all along the journey of your life you thought you would stand, if
                            you are to fail at all.

                        Third, there are two dangers before us in the struggle in life, and the
                            first comes from without from our great adversary, the devil, whose
                            personality I am sure is unquestioned. He does the wdrk of a person, and
                            many of us have felt in all our struggles with him that he is vastly
                            more than an influence. There are two ways in which he works. In one he
                            is described as a roaring lion, and in this respect is not so much to be
                            feared, for in his roaring we may detect his presence, and, realizing
                            his nearness, we may flee away from him.

                        A man staggered into my presence the other day, and told me that he had
                            lost everything; reputation, home, peace, and even his soul; and his
                            very misery was but the sounding forth of the roar of the lion. That man
                            who has broken the  heart of his wife and
                            is himself in despair because he feels himself beyond hope is but
                            another roar of the lion.

                        But the other way in which he works is much more dangerous. When the
                            Master was speaking to Peter of the work of the adversary, he said,
                            "Simon, Simon, Satan has desired you that he may sift you as wheat."
                            Those of you who are familiar with the sifting of the husbandman know
                            that he sifts the wheat that he may separate it from the chaff and the
                            dirt; but Satan's sifting is of quite another sort; he sifts that he may
                            separate the wheat from the chaff and the dirt, and keeps only that
                            which is refuse. Alas ! he has been sifting some of us. We have lost our
                            honesty and our zeal and our faithfulness and our spirit of loyalty;
                            these things have gone from us without our scarcely knowing it, and we
                            are day by day having less and less of the wheat and more and more of
                            the chaff, and there is danger ahead.

                        The second great obstacle against which we must strive is from within.
                                 Man's worst enemy is himself; so the
                            Scripture is right when it declares that he that ruleth his spirit is
                            better than he that taketh a city. Outward sin is just the cropping out
                            of an inward condition. There is a difference between sin and sins. It
                            is the same difference that we find between the root and fruit. Let us
                            not find ourselves smiling at little sins, passing them over with
                            indifference ; for, as a rising temperature in a fever patient tells of
                            an alarming condition, so the commission of sins tells of the weakness
                            of the human heart. It was not just an impulse with Peter to deny his
                            Master; if so, his sin might have been more excusable. We have all of us
                            found ourselves suddenly in sin, and I believe that because of our being
                            taken unawares and tripped up by our adversary our Master is willing to
                            show us special consideration. But with Peter all his sad failure was
                            just a natural outcome of his self-consciousness and pride, his being
                            headstrong and following afar off; and that is the trouble with the most
                            of us.  We have failed at this point
                            without being alarmed, when suddenly we are face to face with an awful
                            transgression which all but wrecks our hopes for the future.

                        The sea-wall of Holland falls not because of the shock of the billows,
                            for the waves have broken against it for years; but because a little
                            stream has percolated through the foundation and undermined it. The
                            strong oak in the forest goes down, not because of the tempests, for it
                            has locked its branches with the arms of the storms for years and has
                            not fallen ; but it is down because the heart of it is decayed. God save
                            us from little sins, for these are but the precursors of a coming
                            wreck.

                    

                    
                        II. WHY HE FAILED.

                        It is necessary that we should enlarge a little bit on the cause of
                            Peter's failure, and explain, if we can, why he said he would and did
                            n't.

                        First, he was self-confident. The most confident swimmers are in the
                            greatest danger of drowning; the most conceited  drivers oftenest overthrow the coach. I know of a man who
                            was rescued from the horrible pit and really had his feet established
                            upon the rock. He was restored to his former position of usefulness and
                            power, and said again and again to me, "I shall never fail again," and
                            he was like a strong man rejoicing to run a race; but I knew that he
                            would fail, and the other day the tidings came that he was once more
                            shipwrecked, hopeless and helpless, plunged into the depths of
                            despair.

                        God knows you best, and he has written in large letters in his book, "Let
                            him that thinketh he standeth take heed lest he fall," and Paul learned
                            this lesson when he said, "When I am weak, then am I strong."

                        Second, he was with the enemies of Christ. It is supposed that both Peter
                            and John entered into the presence of Jesus at the time of his trial.
                            Peter had a chance of either going straight up to the Master or
                            lingering with the servants about the fire, and he made the sad mistake
                                 of doing the latter. If he had stood
                            close to Jesus, his promise would have been kept, and he would have died
                            rather than deny his Lord; but the old Scotch woman was right when she
                            said, " He had nae business among the flunkeys." You cannot stand in the
                            presence of the enemies of Christ without some distinct mark to show
                            that you are a Christian. There are many of us in our business who are
                            obliged to associate with the people of the world, and it is possible
                            for us to go to the very brink of hell, if need be, without even the
                            smell of fire upon our garments, if we boldly take our stand for Christ
                            and proclaim our allegiance to him; but, if there is the least
                            disposition to shrink back from this, there is danger.

                        Third, he made little of being near to Christ. When Jesus took the chosen
                            three into the Garden of Gethsemane, and then staggered away into the
                            gloom of the night as if he were already bearing the weight of the
                            world's woe, he bows in prayer, and then, rising with bloodmarks upon
                            his face, he goes back to his  disciples
                            for just a word of sympathy from him who had said, " Though I should die
                            with thee, yet will I not deny thee," and finds him asleep. To be
                            occupied with Christ is the secret of preservation; to be longing for
                            the world is the sign of weakness and an indication of the fact that we
                            do not know him. What a comfort it would be if we could take Christ into
                            our homes, bow at his feet, reach up and touch his hand, listen to his
                            voice, and what a joy it is to know that this is exactly what we may do,
                            for in the person of the Spirit of God he is here to-day, and, alas ! in
                            his presence we have allowed ourselves to fall asleep and to grow
                            indifferent. If one would but walk with his eyes fixed upon Christ, it
                            would be all but impossible to stumble and fall.
                    

                    
                        III. HIS RETURN.

                        The greatest encouragement we have in the study of this man who said he
                            would and did n't is that he turned back again to Christ, and this was
                            all because his faith failed not. His courage failed  him; his self-respect failed him; his good
                            reputation had failed; but his faith was like an anchor, and just as we
                            have seen a boat tossed to and fro by the waves, and yet not overthrown,
                            because the anchor held, so Peter's faith gripped him to Christ, and so
                            may ours hold us to Him that cannot be moved. When we think of Peter
                            falling, we wonder who can stand; yet, when we remember how he ran back
                            to, Jesus, when he looked at Jesus how he was transformed by the power
                            of Christ until he rebuked the very men that crucified his Lord, and how
                            he wrote his epistles, there is hope for every one of us.

                    

                    
                        IV. SOME OBSERVATIONS.

                        First, man's usefulness ordinarily springs out of some great recovery. We
                            have but to remember the story of David and also this account of Peter,
                            which proves this statement.

                         Mr. S. H. Hadley, of the old Water Street Mission, rescued twenty years
                            ago from the awful curse of intemperance, by  his very fall has been given a sympathy for lost and dying men that
                            is almost superhuman; and he has gone up and down the streets of New.
                            York like an angel of mercy, whispering hope to every downcast,
                            discouraged soul whose attention he could gain. I think I know why Peter
                            was chosen to preach. As a matter of fact we should hardly allow him to
                            preach in these days, shame upon us for the truth of this statement
                            !—but Jesus lets him preach because of the fact that no one could
                            tell him that he had fallen so low that he could not repent, that he was
                            too weak to be helped, or that he was too hopeless to be saved. The man
                            who spat in Christ's face might say, "But, Peter, I spat upon him ;" and
                            the one who smote him with a rod could say, " I brought the blood from
                            his blessed face;" and the one who thrust his heart through with a
                            spear, " I thrust him through and through with this spear of mine; can
                            there be hope for us ? " and Peter could say : "But you did not know
                            him, and I did; and I denied him, and I have been forgiven.  He met me on the shore of the Sea of
                            Galilee, and brushed away every thought of my denial, and took me back
                            again into the embrace of his loving arms; so there is hope for every
                            suffering one."

                        Second, in this story we get a fresh glimpse of the Saviour. When we
                            think of him as the God of Abraham, he is the strength of his people;
                            and as the God of Jacob he has power to change and transform the life;
                            as the God of Elijah he answers prayer ; as the Saviour of Thomas he
                            deals with doubt; and as the Saviour of Paul he is the helper in every
                            time of trouble and of need, even for those whose minds are the
                            greatest; but as the Saviour of Peter he is an encouragement to all who
                            have wandered and fallen.

                        A ministerial friend of mine said that on one occasion he was preaching
                            in a certain church in the afternoon, and after the service a gentleman
                            asked him whether he would not come to his house and take supper. He
                            accepted the invitation, and as they were about entering the house the
                            host said: " You are the first person who 
                            has been invited to break bread in my house for seventeen years. I have
                            an imbecile son, and I treat him just as if he had his reason, and I
                            have thought that it would not be pleasant for visitors in the home, and
                            so I have not invited any; but something that you said in your sermon
                            to-day made me think that you would not mind it, and so I asked you to
                            come." My friend expressed his sympathy with the father, and said he was
                            very glad indeed to accept the invitation. When it came time for the
                            meal, the full-grown son was led in like a little child, and in all
                            things during the meal the father and others ministered to him as if he
                            were still an infant.

                        When the supper was finished and they had gone into another room, the
                            guest asked the father whether his son had always been in that
                            condition. And the father said: "No, indeed. When he was a child, he was
                            one of the brightest boys that ever lived; but when he was about six
                            years old he was afflicted with a terrible disease; and, although his
                            body recovered  from it, his mind was gone.
                            And now for seventeen years he has been just as you have seen him
                            to-night."

                        The minister said, "What a mercy it would have been if, when he was so
                            sick, God had taken his life, instead of allowing him to grow up like
                            this !"

                        Then the father burst into tears, and he said: "You could not have said
                            anything else that would hurt me like that. I know he is an imbecile,
                            but he is my son—he is my son."

                        And, if you have wandered from God, I bring you the message that he loves
                            you, and, having loved you, he will love you unto the end.

                        The third observation is that, when Jesus prophesied this sifting of
                            Satan, he said, "But I have prayed for thee." It is a great thing to
                            have some one pray for us, but to know that Jesus prays is an increasing
                            inspiration. O that God would open our eyes to realize that he is in the
                            presence of Jehovah this very moment and that he will pray for us
                            without ceasing Dr. Arthur T. Pierson says that  when Peter fell he went down until he struck the prayers of
                            Christ, and then he could fall no further. Thank God for this.

                    
                

                

                

                    CHAPTER II.
                        THE MAN WHO SAID HE WOULD—ANDWOULD N'T



                    
                        Text: And Jacob vowed a vow, saying, If
                            God will—I will.—GENESIS 28:
                                20-22.
                    

                    AND God would, but Jacob would not. This sentence tells
                        the story of his entire career, and writes not only his own history, but the
                        history of very many of us who live at the present time. God is always
                        willing to pour out upon us the best gifts of his great treasure-house. He
                        has all but exhausted heaven upon us, has given us the Bible, sent us the
                        Holy Ghost to make it plain, and, chiefest of all, has given us his Son. "
                        For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever
                        believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life" (John 3:
                        16).

                     It is only too true that the story of  many a
                        life of failure and despair may be written in this single sentence, "God
                        would, and ye would not."

                    Jacob comes suddenly before us in the story. We have the account of his birth
                        and a description of his own appearance as well as that of Esau his brother;
                        and then we behold him as a man, deceitful above all things, but most
                        interesting to us because of what he became under the touch of the hand of
                        God. As Jacob appears, Isaac drops out of sight; and, although he lived for
                        years after the deception was practised upon him, yet we hear little of him
                        except the account of his death. We cannot calculate the end of men from
                        their beginning. We remember the fascinating story of Isaac and his father's
                        willingness to sacrifice him on the mountain, and we say when we see the
                        dawn of such a life that the sunset will be thus and so; but Isaac's story
                        is an illustration of the fact that we cannot always tell. There are some
                        lives the beauty of which we can see only in the setting, and other lives
                        the  power of which we lose sight of after the
                        dawn. Jacob belongs to the former company, while Isaac clearly may be
                        classed with the latter.

                    As a matter of fact, however, the story of Jacob is a story of our own
                        experience in the main. His was a life of contrast just as is our own.
                        To-day he is seeing angels, looking up into heaven and listening to the
                        voice of God, while to-morrow he is just as he was in other days, a man of
                        weakness and making a miserable failure of his life; but this is the history
                        of mankind, not of Jacob alone. To-day we are in a rapture, almost in
                        heaven; indeed, all there but the body; and tomorrow our faces are literally
                        in the dust. To-day we are on the transfiguration mountain, wishing to build
                        and stay there forever; to-morrow we are in the valley with our ears filled
                        with the complaints of those who are distressed and our attention taken up
                        with the story of the sorrowing.

                    But we cannot read the story of this man who said he would, and then  wouldn't, without realizing how bold the Bible
                        is in its statements. It hides nothing of the story of our shame. It is Snot
                        afraid to use the words that sometimes make the cheek burn and compel us to
                        bow our heads in confusion. It holds up to the light all that is found in
                        the experience of men. " It is not a gallery of artistic figures, nor a
                        gathering together of dramatic characters, but of living men and women whose
                        true stories are told, as they pray, as they shout, and as they sing." God
                        speaks about us that which is true, and perfectly describes men's hearts
                        when he says, "Deceitful above all things and desperately wicked."

                    And so naturally we have this story of Jacob told in its entirety. If we
                        would appreciate his spirit of disloyalty to God and to his own vow to be
                        true to him, we must rehearse again the story of the stolen birthright. Esau
                        is weary with his hunting, and Jacob with his craftiness takes advantage of
                        his weakness, and gives him the mess of pottage and  claims the birthright. That birthright in the olden times was
                        the right to be a priest in one's household and to lay claim to special
                        covenant blessings with Jehovah; but let us not be too hard upon Esau, for
                        many of us have sold our birthright for less than a mess of pottage; just
                        for the enjoyment of one's sin, for the possession of one questionable
                        thing, we have parted with that which would have given us the right to be
                        the priests in our households. Do not condemn Esau, for in so doing you may
                        condemn yourself.

                    I learn also from Jacob's sad story that one sin follows another. Graces come
                        with linked hands, it is said, and so do vices. Every grace is a link in the
                        chain, and the chain binds us to heaven, while every sin is a link in the
                        chain, and, alas ! this chain binds us to hell.

                    If a man could commit but one sin and then stop, it would be bad enough; but
                        he never does. One sin makes it easier to commit another, and the end
                        baffles description. How Jacob illustrates this!  He first of all decides to defraud his brother and deceive his father. He
                        must put on his brother's dress and make his way into the presence of the
                        old man lying upon his couch, and he did deceive him by direct falsehood
                        when he said, " I am Esau thy first-born; I have done according as thou
                        badest me: arise, I pray thee, sit and eat of my venison, that thy soul may
                        bless me" (Gen. 27: 19); and he made a blasphemous use of the name of
                        Jehovah. "And Isaac said unto his son, How is it that thou hast found it so
                        quickly, my son? And he said,. Because the Lord thy God brought it to me"
                        (Gen. 27: 20).

                    I have an idea that he supposed he could go into the presence of his father
                        and by the very sound of his voice compel him to believe that he was Esau
                        and not Jacob, but the old man draws him near to himself. What must have
                        been his horror, therefore, when he felt his father's hand moving over the
                        neck which had been covered with the skins of the kids and the goats, and
                        also clasping his  hands! His face must have
                        grown pale and his heart gone throbbing like a triphammer, but this is the
                        way with sinners always. You did not imagine when you committed that sin the
                        other day that it was to draw in its wake other sins which would defeat you,
                        but this also is true. You did not suppose when you took the first glass of
                        wine that the almost inevitable results of that one sin would be to make you
                        a drunkard.

                    A poor old waif, ragged and unkempt, stood looking in through the plate-glass
                        window of a gilded saloon in New Orleans. Two fashionable young men noticed
                        him, and one said to the other, " Say, let's do the good Samaritan, and set
                        Hobo up to a drink." The other hilariously consented, and the tramp slouched
                        into the saloon at their heels. As he poured the liquor into the glass with
                        a trembling hand, one of the young men said, " Make us a speech !"

                    The tramp swallowed down the liquor with a fierce thirst, then straightened
                        himself and stood before them with a  grace and
                        dignity that all his rags and dirt could not obscure. " Gentlemen," he said,
                        "I look to-night at you and at myself, and it seems to me I look upon the
                        picture of my lost manhood. This bloated face was once as young and handsome
                        as yours. This shambling figure once walked as proudly as yours, a man in
                        the world of men. I, too, once had a home and friends and position. I had a
                        wife as beautiful as an artist's dream, and I dropped the priceless pearl of
                        her honor and respect in the wine-cup. I had children as sweet and lovely as
                        the flowers of spring, and I saw them fade and die under the blighting curse
                        of a drunken father. To-day I am a husband without a wife, a father without
                        a child, a tramp without a home to call his own, a man in whom every good
                        impulse is dead—all, all swallowed up in the maelstrom of drink."

                    The tramp ceased speaking. The glass fell from his nerveless fingers and
                        shivered into a thousand fragments on the floor. The swinging doors pushed
                        open  and shut again, and he was gone. Let the
                        young man who is offered a glass of wine remember his sermon.

                     But after Jacob had deceived his father and defrauded his brother he goes
                        forth to Bethel, and it is at Bethel after he has had his dream that we hear
                        him saying, "If God will—I will."

                    But I should like to pause just a moment here and give the story of Jacob's
                        death as it is recorded in the forty-ninth and fiftieth chapters of Genesis.
                        We have seen great buildings in process of erection, and have admired the
                        magnitude of them; but because of the scaffolding outside we have not been
                        able to take in all the beauty of the architectural lines; but, when the
                        scaffolding is down, we look and wonder; and, when we read the story of
                        Jacob's death, we find this wonderful character with the scaffolding
                        removed. He is Jacob no longer, but Israel the prince, with his children
                        about him, bestowing upon them a father's blessing and asking from them the
                        promise that he should be buried in that celebrated  tomb where his illustrious dead are to-day waiting the
                        resurrection morning; and he closed his eyes and fell asleep only to awake
                        in the presence of Him who in all the years of his wanderings loved him and
                        would not let him go. This picture is given over against the story of his
                        deceit in order that we may not grow discouraged and say, If Jacob could be
                        so mean a man, what hope can there be for the man like him to-day who finds
                        it easier to do wrong than to do right ? There is every hope, for God is our
                        Father, Jesus Christ is our Saviour, and we are the objects of an
                        everlasting love. I am very sure that when Jacob vowed his vow, "If God
                        will—I will," he meant to do exactly what he said.

                    
                        I.

                        As we study the story of his life and find him deceived by Laban, when
                            Leah was substituted for Rachel, we learn the lesson that he was just
                            reaping the harvest he had sown. He was a deceiver, and he is himself
                            deceived. We never  can escape this law;
                            for real judgment cannot be evaded or avoided, eluded or bribed. We do
                            not like to be paid in our own coin, and there is something very
                            interesting in Jacob's amazement that he of all men should be deceived
                            when the most of his time had been given up to deceiving others. There
                            is one text that ought to be written for us in letters of fire, " Be
                            sure your sin will find you out." We may cover it over with good
                            resolutions, but there will be a resurrection; never until Christ covers
                            it with his own blood can it be blotted out. "Whatsoever a man soweth,
                            that shall he also reap," and what he reaps he sows, and what he sows he
                            reaps again. Sow to the wind and reap the whirlwind; sow deceit, reap
                            deceit; it is an inevitable rule and cannot be broken. 
                    

                    
                        II.

                        But I learn also from the story of this man that he was just following
                            the bent of his disposition; he was a deceiver from the beginning. He
                            deceived himself  because he thought he
                            could defraud Esau without reaping a harvest, and he deceived Esau when
                            he deprived him of his birthright, and he deceived his father when he
                            attempted to talk like Esau, and dressed as Esau dressed, and he tried
                            to deceive God, in the matter of the streaked cattle, he deceived Laban,
                            and, when after the experience at Jabbok he met Esau, he deceived him,
                            for he said, " I will go on to Mount Seir," for he did not keep his
                            word; he was afraid of Esau, and did not like to journey with him, and
                            so deceived him. Therefore he was but following the bent of his
                            disposition. That is a dangerous thing to do. There is not one of us but
                            has a bent or tendency towards evil of one form or another; it might be
                            pride or deceit or wilfulness or lust; whatever it is, if Christ is not
                            put in the place of weakness, there will be danger.

                        I would lift up a warning cry against little sins.

                        A terrible record of death and disaster was made in Cleveland, resulting
                            from an  explosion which occurred in the
                            waterworks tunnel. A mule-boy was instructed to repair at noon an
                            incandescent lamp which had become burned out during the morning. He
                            obtained a new globe and fuse, and while the men were eating dinner
                            attempted to adjust the globe and the fuse to the wire. A grain of sand
                            had fallen into the fuse-receptacle ; and, when the connections were
                            made, this tiny sand-grain caused a spark. The gas in the tunnel, a
                            quantity of which is always present, immediately exploded. Seven men
                            were killed at once, others injured, and enormous loss of property
                            entailed; and yet only a single grain of sand caused it. Beware of
                            single sins and little sins! One fatal sand-grain of evil may cause the
                            spark which explodes and desolates the whole life.

                        Yet singularly enough here we find the story of Jacob at Jabbok's ford,
                            when he is within the grasp of the angel, and they wrestle together as
                            men did in the Roman arena.

                        "Let me go," cries the angel.

                        

                        "I will not let thee go without a blessing," answers the deceiver of
                            other days.

                        " What is thy name ?" asks the heavenly wrestler; and then he was honest,
                            for he said, "My name is Jacob." It was as if he had said, "I am a
                            deceiver and a cheat," and the angel answers as he touches the hollow of
                            his thigh, "Thy name shall be called Israel, for thou art a prince";
                            and, while he limped away from that great struggle, yet he is in many
                            ways a new man; and I am very sure that the story is written in order
                            that we might understand that if our natures are as deceitful as Jacob's
                            we may be changed if we will but yield to the influence of this angel of
                            the Lord, who is none other than Jesus himself.

                    

                    
                        III.

                        Yet let us not imagine that a Jabbok's experience means freedom from
                            temptation or necessarily escape from sin.' It might mean all of this,
                            but Jacob goes out to disobey once more. The word of  the Lord came to him bidding him go to
                            Bethel, but instead of that he wants to go to Shechem, and he does go.
                            He looked towards the city, then pitched his tent in that direction, and
                            finally bought a parcel of ground and built there; but let us not
                            condemn him, for we, too, have done the same thing. We have disobeyed
                            God. We live on the very edge of the world, sometimes doing the things
                            that are questionable, going just as far as we can without going over
                            entirely to the enemy, and there is great danger. There is danger to
                            others as well as to ourselves.

                        It is said that between Fire Island and the southern end of Ireland are
                            ten wrecks in the line taken by steamers sailing to and from New York.
                            These derelicts, as they are called, are the hulls of wrecked vessels
                            that, though they show but little or nothing above the water, form a
                            fearful peril for the ocean steamer. There is perhaps no danger in ocean
                            travel that gives the steamer captain so much serious anxiety as the
                            derelict.

                        Alas ! there are many moral derelicts in 
                            our churches. Their names are on the church-rolls, but they are
                            water-soaked and water-logged with worldliness. They carry no flag and
                            no light, but they are dangerous to run against. It ought to be our
                            purpose not to drift with the currents, but to sail somewhere with a
                            definite purpose. The drifting soul is always a danger to others as well
                            as in deadly peril itself. For, while Jacob dwelt at Shechem, his
                            daughter Dinah fell into sin and all but broke the old man's heart. I
                            should be afraid because of my influence over others to yield to sin or
                            to practise iniquity. May Jacob's story be a warning to us.

                        James Stirling, the great temperance apostle of Scotland, was a drunkard
                            until old age, and then became the greatest temperance evangelist of his
                            day. He was to speak in Dundee when, just as he entered the church, a
                            message came to him that his son was in the inn intoxicated. He returned
                            to the inn, took him in his arms, carried him to his room, and sat with
                            him until the stupor was gone,  and then
                            held his hand as the son signed his name to the pledge never to drink
                            again. He came back and delivered such a temperance address as has
                            rarely been heard, and then went to his room to sleep; but in the
                            morning he was summoned to his son's room, where he found him dead. He
                            had died by his own hand, and left this letter : " Dear
                                Father : I did the best I could, but the old appetite came back
                            and I went down. I knew it would kill you, and so I have killed myself.
                            Good-bye." The old man read it through his tears, then fell upon his
                            face upon the floor, and cried out, "My God, if I had been a different
                            man, this never would have happened."

                        May we not learn from Jacob the lesson that we are our brother's keeper
                            whether we will or no; and, if we fail to keep ourselves unspotted from
                            the world in his behalf, we shall one day be called to an account ?
                    

                    
                        IV.
                         It is most interesting to read the  account
                            of the final recovery of this man who said he would, and would n't. Gen.
                            35: 1,—"And God said unto Jacob, Arise, go up to Bethel, and dwell
                            there; and make there an altar unto God, that appeared unto thee when
                            thou fleddest from the face of Esau thy brother." There are so many of
                            us like Jacob, and God still speaks to us. He wants us to be filled with
                            peace and to lay hold upon blessing, but he would have us remember the
                            vows that we have made, some of us possibly in other days, some of us
                            perhaps to-day; and he would help us keep those vows.

                        There are certain things that always awaken a memory that is uplifting.
                            With some it is the memory of an old home scene where with the father
                            and the mother now in glory the sweet songs of the gospel were sung and
                            God's precious promises were read. A name, a flower, will sometimes
                            bring before us a whole panorama of beautiful memories; and so, when God
                            said, "Go to Bethel," the memory of that day when he saw the  angels and heard God speak was before him,
                            and he said to those who were with him, "Put away your idols" ; and,
                            when they brought their idols, he buried them by the oak; and, thus
                            freed from their contamination, he made his way back to Bethel to be
                            Jacob no longer, but Israel the prince.

                        It is the will of God that we should put away the things that have been
                            our defeat in the past. It is his will that our weakness should be lost
                            in his strength, and so I bid you if yours is a life of failure turn
                            back to Bethel, pray as you used to pray, live as you used to live, and
                            God will be most gracious. I would say a word, too, for those of you who
                            are not yet Christians. It is God's will that you should be saved. When
                            the rocks were throbbing at Calvary and the crosses were shaking, and
                            when it was dark as midnight, although it was only noon, and Jesus said,
                            "It is finished," it was as if he were saying, "I will," to the world,
                            and from that moment to this every lost sinner could be saved if he
                            would but yield.

                        

                        As I was travelling the other day with a friend, he told me of a man in
                            New England who was just about to undergo a most critical operation. He
                            was a believer in God, but not a believer in Christ. He could not accept
                            his divinity, and the minister went to see him; but, when asked about
                            his hope for the future, he had none because he had rejected Christ; and
                            the minister said, " But, if he should reveal himself to you as your
                            Saviour, you would accept him ? "

                        "Certainly," said the man.

                        So the minister prayed that this revelation might come, and at his
                            suggestion the man prayed after this manner : " O Jesus, I have been
                            feeling out after thee for years, and could not find thee. If thou wilt
                            but reveal thyself to me as my Saviour, I will believe;" and then
                            because his eyes were not open the minister went quietly away, only to
                            return a few days later when the operation was over, to find not the
                            same face with sharp, drawn lines, but a face that was touched with
                            glory and eyes that were constantly 
                            overflowing with tears. "I have seen him; I have seen him," he
                            exclaimed; "for, the moment I said, 'I will' to him the other day with
                            eyes closed to shut out the world, he gave me a vision of his face, and
                            I have seen him and do believe."

                        It is God's will that you should be saved. O that it might be your will
                            to be accepted of him!
                    
                

                


                
                    CHAPTER III.
                        THE MAN WHO SAID HE WOULD—AND
                         COULD N'T.

                    
                        Text: And he awoke out of his sleep, and
                            said, I will go outas at other times before, and shake myself.
                            And he wist not that the Lord was departed from him.—
                        JUDGES 16: 20.
                    

                    DOUBTLESS we are all familiar with what is known as a
                        composite picture. It is like this : if a number of men should stand before
                        the camera, the strong features of each face would come out prominently, and
                        altogether a composite face could be made, which would at least be
                        interesting to the student. The Bible presents such a composite picture of
                        humanity. In Cain we have unbridled passions resulting in murder; in
                        Abraham, a beautiful life whose prominent characteristic was faith; in Jacob
                        we behold the supplanter and the cheat transformed by the power of God into
                        one who bore not  only a princely name, but was
                        the possessor of a princely nature; in Moses we see one of the world's
                        greatest leaders; but somehow it would seem that we needed Samson to
                        complete the picture, in order that to all these characteristics that have
                        been mentioned we might add that of physical strength; for he was a mighty
                        man indeed.

                    Yet I doubt not that this Old Testament story was written, among other
                        reasons, for this, that we might know how trifling a thing, after all, human
                        energy is, and that it might also reveal to us how easily the devil can
                        overthrow it; for, while in one picture we behold Samson glorying in his
                        strength, the terror of his enemies, and the admiration of his friends, in
                        another picture, when he has yielded to the adversaries, we find him a
                        pitiable object of weakness and a man acquainted with despair.

                    
                        I.

                        But he was a great man in spite of all his weakness. It would seem as if
                            God  could do no more for any one, in
                            certain directions, at least, than he had done for Samson. From his
                            birth, and before, he had showered upon him his best gifts.

                        First of all, he had the best of parents; of Manoah we learn not only in
                            Scripture, but also in the writings of Josephus, that he was possessed
                            of such virtue as few could equal; and of his mother it was said that
                            she was a woman, not only of great strength of character, but of rare
                            beauty. His parents before his birth were in the hands of the Almighty,
                            that he might in the fulness of time pour out some special blessing upon
                            their son; but it is not enough for us to lay claim to good parentage;
                            yet at the same time there is hardly a greater blessing than to be well
                            born.

                        You may remember that other Old Testament story of Lot and his wife
                            fleeing together away from the doomed city ; but suddenly the wife turns
                            to look back and becomes a pillar of salt, while Lot makes his way to
                            the mountains for safety, all of which leads me to say that  kinship with the saved does not ensure
                            salvation. Lot's wife is lost while he himself is saved.

                        Do not imagine that because you have the best of parents therefore you
                            may be saved, for an act of faith on your part is essential to salvation
                            ; and again we learn from this Old Testament account that endeavor that
                            is but partial does not ensure salvation. Lot's wife started as did he
                            from the city, and for a little time she ran by his side; but she
                            stopped and was lost. Many of us have been almost persuaded in other
                            days to be Christians, and we have started, as we supposed, because we
                            have given up this form of sin or that, but


                        
                            
                                Almost persuaded, harvest is past ;
                                Almost persuaded, doom comes at last ;
                                ' Almost' cannot avail;
                                ' Almost' is but to fail ;
                                Sad, sad, that bitter wail,
                                Almost-but lost !"
                            
                        


                        Second, he was a man of great strength. He seemed as if he were all  body. He was a real giant, but he was more
                            than that. The simple possession of strength may be a very dangerous
                            thing if that strength is not controlled. The more we have, the worse it
                            is for us. Samson remembered his strength, and because he wanted to
                            avenge himself on the Philistines we read in Judges, the fifteenth
                            chapter and the fourth and fifth verses: "And Samson went and caught
                            three hundred foxes, and took firebrands and turned tail to tail, and
                            put a firebrand in the midst between two tails. And when he had set the
                            brands on fire, he let them go into the standing corn of the
                            Philistines, and burnt up both the shocks, and also the standing corn,
                            with the vineyards and olives."

                        " I never could be a Christian," said a man to me in another city; and
                            when I asked him the reason, he said that it was because he had such a
                            temper that he scarcely passed through a single day without some display
                            of this temper, which to him was an awful thing; but I said to him what
                            may be said to every  one, that, while the
                            mere possession of temper, pride or zeal, might be our defeat, if these
                            things were only under control by one who is mightier than ourselves,
                            they would be to us like steam to the engine, and become the secret of
                            our success.

                        Usually we see only one thing in a man, which leads me to say that Samson
                            was more than a giant. If we should be asked to give at once our
                            estimate concerning Moses, we should say he was a man of meekness, and
                            yet we ought not to forget that he was one of the world's greatest
                            leaders of men. If we were asked to give our opinion of Jeremiah, we
                            should think of him as the weeping prophet, the one who said, " O that
                            my head were waters, and mine eyes a fountain of tears, that I might
                            weep day and night for the slain of the daughter of my people!" but let
                            us not forget that he was a great advocate, an eloquent man, and one who
                            pleaded for Jehovah as very few men have pleaded; and so the same is
                            true of Samson. He was a great man  in
                            physical strength, but let it not be forgotten that in the thirty-first
                            verse of the sixteenth chapter of Judges in the closing clause we read,
                            "And he judged Israel twenty years." We are liable to forget that, and
                            to think of him only as tying foxes' tails together and doing other
                            things quite as startling; but this is the way of the world. If a man
                            does one bad thing, the world can hardly forget it. It may pass over a
                            thousand of his virtues, and the one weakness is ever prominent in the
                            world's memory; but it is a joy to know that we have to do with One who
                            did not forget that Samson judged Israel twenty years and who does not
                            forget our virtues, remembering even the cup of cold water to which the
                            world might have been blind, but which he knew that we gave because of
                            our desire to help him. 
                    

                    
                        II.

                        This man who said he would, and couldn't, teaches us also a lesson that
                            outward strength will surely perish. 
                            Samson is under the influence of Delilah, and the Philistines have said
                            to her, "Tell us the secret of his strength that we may overpower him;"
                            and she seeks by fascination to learn this secret. Sam. son tells her to
                            bind him with green withes that have never been dried and he will be
                            overcome, and she does so. He snaps these withes as if they had been a
                            piece of tow; and then he tells her to bind him with a new cord that had
                            never been used; and, when the time came for the Philistines to lay hold
                            upon him, he snapped the cord as if it had been a thread; and then he
                            tells her to weave the locks of his hair into the cord, and bind him to
                            the beam and the pin; and, when the enemy approaches him, he marches off
                            with beam and pin as if he had not been bound at all; and then finally
                            he tells her that the secret of his strength was not in the length of
                            his hair, but that this hair of his was the sign of the Nazarite vow. He
                            had vowed not to touch that which was unclean, and he said to her that
                            if the hair be shaved from  his head his
                            strength would depart; and she soothes him to sleep, and his locks are
                            shorn, and there is a great transformation for the worse.

                        I suppose there may be some one whose eye may light upon this page who is
                            depending upon human strength. " I do not need Christ," said a man to me
                            not long ago, " for I have a strong intellect. I can think for myself,
                            and so long as I feel this consciousness of strength I shall walk
                            alone;" but let it not be forgotten that the strongest intellect may
                            fail and the strongest man become as a little child again. " I do not
                            need to be a Christian, for I have will-power enough to resist evil. I
                            have determined that I will live a clean life and will not be
                            intemperate," said another man; but one's will-power may give way, and
                            the man who was a giant yesterday may be a child to-day; and then there
                            are others of us who are putting our confidence in the help our loved
                            ones can give to us, but they may die, and then what ?

                        I happened to know of a young man  who broke
                            his father's heart, and put him in an untimely grave, and then fled away
                            from his mother, refusing to comfort her in her sorrow, only to find out
                            when he was on the Pacific coast that she was dying; but it is a long
                            journey from coast to coast, and when he reached New York the mother was
                            dead. A friend saw him wending his way to the cemetery, and beheld him
                            as he read his mother's name cut in the tombstone, and then saw him as
                            he fell upon his face and cried out, "She has gone, she has gone, and
                            who will pray for me now ?" O, if we are depending upon human energy or
                            upon the strength of others, we shall one day of all persons be the most
                            miserable, for human strength may be as nothing to us.
                    

                    
                        III.

                        After Samson's locks had been shorn he speaks the words of our text: "And
                            he awoke out of his sleep, and said, I will go out as at other times
                            before, and shake myself. And he wist not that the Lord was departed
                            from him" (Judg. 16: 20).  Picture him if
                            you can going forth into the presence of the people. He has broken his
                            vow; he has lost his touch with God, and therefore lost his power. All
                            the outer man is there, but it is like a .temple without God. He knew
                            not that his strength had departed. He was like a walking skeleton; he
                            had eyes, but could not see, a mouth, but could not speak, and ears, but
                            could not hear.

                        What an illustration he is of the loss of spiritual power ! See him as he
                            stands. The people breathlessly draw away from him; for he is the same
                            giant in stature, and they do not know whether to fear him or not. He is
                            physically the same, muscle and sinew, bone, nerve, and beating heart;
                            but something is gone. He is like many of us who have been shorn of our
                            power just because of one sin. You may remember that sin to-day; it was
                            off in another city, and you had the choice between good and evil; and
                            you said, " No one will know, and it is but for this once, and I am a
                            stranger in a strange land;" and from that day till this you  have been crying out in an agony, "O, that
                            I knew where peace might be found I" and I will tell you where you can
                            find it; go back where you broke your vow and missed your step with
                            Christ, and start again.

                        A railway brakeman was discharged from a hospital in Sedalia, Mo., after
                            four months' treatment for a tarantula-bite. He touched a tarantula, and
                            was bitten on the tip of the middle finger of the right hand. He felt a
                            sharp pang of pain at the time, but paid little attention to it, and
                            went on with his work. The bitten finger began to slough off. The hand
                            and arm were soon swollen to three times their natural size. The finger
                            was amputated again and again, but the wound would not heal. The
                            surgeons were compelled to continue to follow the hand back, and finally
                            made twenty-nine amputations in all; and he thought himself very
                            fortunate to save his life with the loss of his arm. The poison of the
                            spider-bite had become so thoroughly infused into his system that it was
                            almost  impossible to overcome it, and his
                            final recovery was considered almost a miracle.

                        All about us are men who have been bitten with strong drink, who have
                            lost property, and good habits, and good character, and love of children
                            and wife, and hope of heaven; and their system has been so thoroughly
                            poisoned that unless saved by some miraculous cleansing through the
                            blood of Jesus Christ they must be lost forever.

                        Let us not boast. Here is a man who is honest; he may be so, but how
                            about purity ? and here is another who lays claim to being pure, but how
                            about intemperance ? and here is still another who claims to be
                            temperate, but how about honesty ? So many of us boast of strong points,
                            and quite forget about the weak tendencies. All of us need Christ;
                            without him we shall fail

                        In connection with the story of Samson note, first, the persistency of
                            the adversary. Samson showed his weakness because he did not immediately
                            resist, but he trifled with the tempter.

                        

                        Animal-trainers say that the secret of handling safely all beasts of the
                            cat species, such as lions, tigers, and leopards, is to keep them
                            constantly afraid of you. The instant they get over their fear, they
                            will attack any one who crosses their path. They are all treacherous,
                            too, and often gather courage for an attack when the master's eyes are
                            turned away from them, although they would not dare revolt if he faced
                            them. One never knows when they will get over their fear and spring at
                            the keeper if they have a chance to do it from behind.

                        Our fight with the devil is like that. He is always seeking to attack us
                            from the rear or in ambush. The devil goes about like a roaring lion,
                            seeking whom he may devour; but he is a great coward when faced with
                            courage. " Resist the devil, and he will flee from you" is as true in
                            our time as it was when the apostle James first made the
                            declaration.

                        Second, he ignored the strength of the adversary. I can imagine how when
                            he snapped the green withes, and broke the 
                            new cords, and walked away with the beam and the pin, he must have
                            laughed his enemies to scorn. It is a dangerous thing for a man to
                            ignore the strength of the great tempter.

                        A young lady in Morristown, N. J., grasped the guy-wire on the
                            electric-light pole in front of her father's house, to see whether she
                            could get a slight shock. Her hand was suddenly contracted by a powerful
                            current which swept through her body. The young girl screamed in agony.
                            She writhed and twisted, and fell to the ground; but she could not relax
                            her hold upon the live wire, which was burning her hands, for she had
                            reached up with her left hand to tear her right hand away.

                        Men and boys ran towards her, but not one dared to put out a hand to save
                            the girl. Then her mother ran out. "Oh, mamma," cried the girl, "save me
                            l My hands are burning up 1" The mother quickly grasped her daughter
                            around the waist, but was hurled to the ground as if by the blow of a
                            club. Finally a man  came up with presence
                            of mind enough to take an axe and sever the wire. He was in time to save
                            the girl's life, but she was fearfully burned.

                         The incident suggests tragedies that are taking place every day before
                            our eyes. Many people are willing to tamper with sin, and run the risk
                            of a slight shock. A boy likes to drink a glass of wine that will make
                            his nerves tingle, and many are asking themselves, "How far can I go in
                            the wrong way without being overthrown?" That is the way the devil
                            fishes for men and women. People grasp his wires, and get a slight
                            shock, and only laugh at danger; but some day they take hold of a live
                            wire that has all the fire of hell in it, and they are struck through
                            and through with death. It is better not to play with the devil's wires
                            at all.

                        Third, temptation comes gradually. Just inch by inch Delilah wore Samson
                            out until at last he exclaims, "I am a Nazarite," and he gives her the
                            secret of his power; and in a little time he is as  weak as the weakest of all his enemies. The trouble with us
                            is that we harbor an impure thought to-day, and yield to just the
                            slightest temptation to-morrow, and before we know it we are
                            overthrown.
                    

                    
                        IV.

                        With every sin comes the blunting of one's moral capacity by which is
                            detected the presence of evil. There was a time when. the thought of
                            dishonesty made you shudder, and the idea of impurity made you blush,
                            when the consideration of intemperance roused all the manhood there was
                            in you, and you hated this form of sin with bitter hatred. The time was
                            when you were the last person in all the world to think that you would
                            ever finally reject Christ; but you have yielded just a little to these
                            things, and now you treat them indifferently, and your heart has become
                            hardened, and you are going to be like this " man who said he would, and
                            could n't," for the Lord is departed from you.
                    

                    

                    
                        V.

                        "He wist not that the Lord was de- parted" ; so gradually had this
                            strength been taken from him in his trifling with the adversary. I can
                            see him as he rises, saying in the text, "I will now shake myself," and
                            he attempts to lift his arms and move his body, only to find that he is
                            powerless. He has trifled once too often.

                        It is said that there is on the Niagara River a placed called "Past
                            Redemption Point"; for you may drift on the river with safety up to a
                            certain place, and from there on there is danger; for men stand on the
                            banks of the river, and shout to those who are coming near, " Danger
                            ahead, danger ahead; " but, if you allow yourself to pass the point,
                            only the falls with an awful death are before you; and so men have
                            drifted along in their relations to Christ. The minister has warned
                            them; friends have pleaded with them; and the danger is that they  may be passing this Past Redemption Point,
                            and do not realize it; and so I make an appeal to all who do not know
                            Christ to choose him while yet it is called to-day, and there would be
                            joy in every heart if those who have resisted times without number
                            should cry out, "Nay, but I yield, I yield; I can hold out no more."

                    
                

                
                
                    CHAPTER IV.
                        THE MAN WHO SAID HE WOULD—AND
                        DID.

                    
                        Text: For I determined.—1 CORINTHIANS 2: 2.
                    

                    IN these words we find the secret of the apostle's power
                        and likewise the secret of the great success of his life; that is, his
                        Christian life, which stretched out from Damascus to the eternal city, and
                        he never wavered in his determination. He passed through experiences that
                        would have turned other men aside, but not so this man.

                    He must have had the same determined disposition before his conversion. This
                        is certainly evident, for after he had seen Jesus and heard him speak that
                        force which made him the dreaded foe is all subdued, and he becomes the most
                        powerful friend that Jesus of Nazareth ever had in this world. He was a man
                        of one idea. This must have been true before 
                        his conversion. I can imagine him determining to go to Jerusalem and sit at
                        the feet of Gamaliel, and allowing nothing of the pleasure of the great
                        city, as it was then known, to turn him aside until he has won the crown and
                        he is himself a master in all intellectual equipments.

                     We certainly find this in his persecution of the church; for, when once he
                        has entered upon this career, he is never satisfied until he has persecuted
                        the Christians even unto strange cities, cast them into prison, and if
                        possible beaten them with stripes; but after his conversion in a remarkable
                        degree it is true that he was a man of one idea. "This one thing I do," he
                        said, and he kept his word. "None of these things move me," he declared when
                        he had determined to go to Jerusalem; not even bonds or afflictions could
                        turn him aside; and when he reaches the end of his remarkable career, he can
                        look back over it all and say with commendable pride, " I have fought a good
                        fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith."

                    

                    How obstacles do melt away when one is desperately in earnest! If you walk
                        down the streets in a busy city in a leisurely fashion, you will find your
                        progress difficult; but, if you are on a mission and walk with enthusiasm,
                        you will find that unconsciously people get out of your way and the journey
                        is comparatively easy. There are some men whose lives we cannot study
                        without thinking that they were sent of God to do a special work at a
                        special time, which no one else could possibly have done; for them to fail
                        would have been to hinder the plan of God.

                    Of course every one is sent of God. Concerning John the Baptist in the
                        Gospels we read, "There was a man sent from God, whose name was John." It
                        was suggested to me not long ago that it would be a good plan if we were to
                        drop John's name out of this, and put our own in. "There was a man sent from
                        God whose name was -------"; and, if our name should be written in this
                        blank space and we had found that in the Bible,  that would have made it no more certain that we are called of God to do a
                        special work than it has been ever since we became Christians. Luther was a
                        man whom God had used to do a particular work at a particular time; so was
                        Knox; so was Charles G. Finney; and so was D. L. Moody; and yet of Paul this
                        was especially true. He came upon the field of action while the church was
                        yet in her infancy, when she needed him, when a few fisher-folk and a
                        company of very ordinary people made up the membership; and his great mind
                        swayed theirs, and his mighty influence was used of God to mould the whole
                        company.

                    The gospel shows what it can do with a man like Peter as we read his story,
                        and we are quite aware that it can reclaim the outcast, save the drunkard,
                        and redeem the harlot; but the gospel here shows us what it can do with a
                        man like Paul, one of the greatest intellects not only of his time but of
                        all time. He would have been great whether he had  been a Christian or not. Of the other disciples possibly this
                        would not have been true. We doubtless should not have heard of Peter,
                        James, or John; but concerning Saul of Tarsus the world would have learned,
                        for he was truly a great man.

                    He was great in his unselfishness. "What things were gain to me, those I
                        counted loss for Christ," he said, and I doubt not he was as anxious for
                        gain as the rest of us.

                    He was great in his influence. In the sixteenth chapter of Acts he has only
                        to sit beside a woman on the banks of the river, and she who had been a
                        seller of purple is baptized, and became a part of the body of Christ.

                    He was great because he was not easily discouraged. "I know how to abound,"
                        he said, "and to suffer need." In the eighteenth chapter of Acts, the first
                        verse, we read that after these things he leaves Athens and goes to Corinth.
                        After what things ? If you will read the seventeenth chapter of the Acts,
                        you  will find that humanly speaking he had met
                        with failure at Athens; philosophers had mocked him, and only a few people
                        of little consequence had accepted his message. A preacher in these modern
                        times would have grown disheartened, possibly turned to some other avenue of
                        usefulness, but not so Paul the apostle. He makes his way to Corinth, and it
                        was to these Corinthians he said, "I determined not to know anything among
                        you save Jesus Christ and him crucified."

                    He was great in his illustrations; so was his Master, and he was but
                        following in the Master's footsteps. But Jesus dwelt in the country and
                        lived in small towns, and therefore drew his illustrations from the grass at
                        his feet, the flowers that bloomed around him, and the birds of song about
                        him. Paul was a city man, and drew his stories from the crowded streets, the
                        busy wharves, the games in the arena, and other things that city people knew
                        all about.

                    He was great as a preacher. Whether he is in prison and in chains, whether he
                             is at Antioch or on Mars' Hill, he is a
                        preacher. I never have seen such a man; in season and out of season, by day
                        and by night he preaches; with back bleeding, head aching, and body, O so
                        weary that an ordinary man could scarcely think, he preaches because he had
                        said he would and did.

                    The date of his birth we do not know, only this, that when Jesus was a boy in
                        Nazareth, playing upon the streets of this beautiful town, over beyond
                        Lebanon another boy named Saul was playing; but his whole life from
                        childhood to premature old age is an inspiration. There never was such
                        singleness of purpose exhibited in any man, never such untiring energy,
                        never such difficulties met without complaint, never such sufferings borne
                        with rejoicing, as in the life of this man who said he would and did. In him
                        it was literally true that Jesus Christ went forth to conquer the world,
                        using his hands and feet in desert and plain. He was a hero, this Paul the
                        apostle; and in the light of these statements we  begin to understand what he meant when he said, "I live; yet not I, but
                        Christ liveth in me." There are some things that he determined to do that I
                        will mention.

                    

                        I. HE DETERMINED TO DO
                                THE WILL OF GOD.

                        With the story of his conversion we are doubtless familiar. He is on his
                            way to Damascus to persecute the church. It is high noon; the sun is
                            shining brilliantly upon the white buildings of the old city; but
                            suddenly he is stricken down, and in a most remarkable way he is
                            converted. "What wilt thou have me to do ? " he asks of him whose voice
                            he hears, and then and there he determined that he would do the will of
                            this new Master of his. How may we know God's will ? I am sure this
                            question is in the minds of many.

                        In answer to the question how to find out God's will Professor Drummond
                            read the following from the fly-leaf of his Testameht:

                        

                        "First, pray. Second, think. Third, talk to wise people, but do not
                            regard their decision as final. Fourth, beware of the bias of your own
                            will, but do not be too much afraid of it. God never unnecessarily
                            thwarts a man's nature and likings, and it is a mistake to think that
                            his will is in the line of the disagreeable. Fifth, meantime do the next
                            thing, for doing God's will in small things is the best preparation for
                            knowing it in great things. Sixth, when decision and action are
                            necessary, go ahead." "You will probably not find out till afterwards,
                            perhaps long afterwards, that you have been led at all."

                        It has been said that the Bible is God's will in words, that nature is
                            God's will in force, that our circumstances are God's will in our
                            every-day affairs.

                        There are three things that Paul did which we should do well to
                            remember.

                        First, he was blind, and in his blindness he lost the world's vision and
                            saw Christ. The trouble with us is, we look down too much and up too
                            little, in too frequently  and not out
                            enough. We are too much taken up with the world's affairs to know well
                            the interests of the kingdom of heaven. It is said that, when artists
                            have been working for a long time at their easels, their vision becomes
                            dim, and they look down at a handful of little bright pebbles on the
                            easel that their vision may be toned up. If we would know God's will, we
                            need to look up, shut our eyes, and look; for we can see further into
                            the plans of God with eyes shut than with them open.

                        Second, he began immediately to work. Acts 9 : 20, " And straightway he
                            preached Christ in the synagogues, that he is the Son of God."

                        A man went to Mr. Moody to say that he was miserable. He was a Christian,
                            but without joy. Then said Mr. Moody: " Begin to do something. Confess
                            Christ to the first man you meet." This first man happened to be a
                            stranger on the streets waiting with him for a car, and the one whose
                            heart had been cold for so long said as they talked about the meeting,
                                 "I am a Christian, are you ? I believe
                            in Christ with all my heart, do you ? " and then fairly ran back into
                            the presence of Mr. Moody to say, "My heart is overflowing with
                            joy."

                         Third, he went over into Arabia for a quiet time with God, and then
                            simply obeyed what God commanded him. Obedience is the organ of
                            spiritual vision. "If any man will do his will, he shall know." It is a
                            great thing to do God's will, but it is a greater thing to will to do
                            it; for he who is willing may have nothing to do but wait, and it is
                            easier always to work than to wait; but, if you would know God's will,
                            do the thing that lies just at your hand, and do it well; and the way
                            will open to larger and better things.
                    

                    
                        II. HE DETERMINED
                                TO PREACH.

                        That was a great scene when he was over in Arabia. Arabia throbs with
                            holy memories. There the bush burned ; there Elijah heard the still
                            small voice; there the manna fell from the skies; and there  God had walked and talked with men. If we
                            would know what Paul believed about the gospel, we need only read
                            Galatians and Romans. What strange views men hold concerning the gospel!
                            We say that such a man is a gospel preacher, and immediately we think of
                            him as a ranting and irresponsible evangelist, or else we say that he is
                            one who tells little stories and interests only little children, which
                            is nothing against the man, rather to his credit; only it is said with a
                            sneer. Paul's idea of the gospel was simply superb. An analysis of his
                            epistles would reveal the fact that,—

                        First, he knew that men were longing for righteousness and in all the
                            ages had been blindly reaching out after it.

                        Second, he knew that men had failed in their desire, for he had himself;
                            and he taught that in Adam all had fallen, and there was no difference,
                            for all had sinned and come short of the glory of God.

                        Third, man's extremity was God's opportunity; for as in Adam all died,
                            even so in Christ could all be made alive.


                        

                        Fourth, he believed that from Adam we inherited not only the guilt of
                            sin, but a carnal nature; and he taught that in Christ we have by his
                            sacrificial death had the guilt removed, and by regeneration have had
                            implanted within us the very life of God which would overpower our
                            tendency to evil.

                        Fifth, he knew that all this could be received by faith alone, for be had
                            received, and from the day of his acceptance had been overflowing with
                            joy.

                        Sixth, he taught that, when once we are united to Christ, nothing can
                            ever separate us from his love, nothing in the heavens above, nothing in
                            the earth beneath, can ever take us from his hand.

                        Seventh, he believed that even though we were Christians we should be
                            obliged to pass through trial and tribulation, but he held that "our
                            light affliction, which is but for a moment, worketh for us a far more
                            exceeding and eternal weight of glory."

                        Eighth, he taught that we should finally be free from this and as we went
                                 looking up into the heavens the
                            Saviour would come and change these bodies of our humiliation,
                            fashioning them like unto his own glorious body.

                        Ninth, he believed that this Saviour of whom he preached would come
                            again.

                        This is Paul's gospel; no wonder is it that he preached it with joy. It
                            is easy to understand how with such a message he could preach in season
                            and out of season, in prison and out of prison, and could say, "I am not
                            ashamed of the gospel of Christ," even to preach it in the city of Rome,
                            at that time the world's centre so far as intellectual power and social
                            position were concerned. This is the man who said he would, and did.
                    

                    
                        III. HE DETERMINED TO
                                GO TO JERUSALEM.

                        In Acts the twentieth chapter, the twenty-second, twenty-third and
                            twenty-fourth verses, we read, " And now, behold. I go bound in the
                            spirit unto Jerusalem, not knowing the things at shall befall me there;
                            save that the  Holy Ghost witnesseth in
                            every city, saying that bonds and afflictions abide me. But none of
                            these things move me, neither count I my life dear unto myself, so that
                            I might finish my course with joy, and the ministry, which I have
                            received of the Lord Jesus, to testify the gospel of the grace of God."
                            He is now about sixty years of age; for twenty years he has been
                            preaching; his body is worn by disease, bruised with much punishment ;
                            his hair is whitened and his face is furrowed. What a rebuke to those of
                            us who have done nothing for Christ, and what we have done we have
                            complained about! He goes to Jerusalem because he cannot help it; bound
                            in the spirit he finds himself, and that is power. He was thinking of
                            the same thing when he said, " Woe is unto me if I preach not the
                            gospel." What were bonds and afflictions to him when the consciousness
                            of the presence of Christ was with him ?

                        There are two ways of meeting trouble. One way: a man stands beside an
                            open grave in which he has buried the best of  his life, and clinches his fists, and sets his teeth, and
                            says with grim determination, " I will pass through it; I will endure
                            it; I will not break down ;" but this is not the spirit of the
                            Christian. His spirit is that of the apostle Paul in this story. He
                            stands beside the open grave, weeping as if his heart would break, for
                            he would not be human if he did not weep, but looking up through his
                            tears into heaven to say, " Though he slay me, yet will I trust in him;
                            the Lord gave and the Lord hath taken away." This was what Paul meant
                            when he said, " Bonds and afflictions abide me;" but none of these
                            things moved him, for he walked with Christ; and with Christ every
                            burden is easier to bear and every pain has had its sting removed.
                    

                    
                        IV. AND HE DETERMINED TO GO TO ROME.

                        The account of his going is in the twenty-seventh chapter of Acts. How
                            like the journey of this life this is ! In the fourth verse the winds
                            are contrary;


                        

                        in the eighth verse he enters Fair Havens; in the thirteenth verse the
                            south wind blows; in the eighteenth verse the tempest is upon him; in
                            the fortieth and forty-first verses the vessel is shipwrecked. We have
                            all of us had the contrary winds in the beginning of life's journey; and
                            we doubtless many of us have entered fair havens, and we laugh at the
                            entreaty of the minister to lay hold upon Christ; and the south wind has
                            been blowing against us, which only emboldens us the more; and suddenly
                            we find ourselves in the tempest when the boat is wrecked and all aboard
                            lost. How thankful we are to say that shipwreck is not necessary, for
                            with Christ we may be safe! Paul was so in all his experiences.

                        Finally he enters Rome, gray-haired, prematurely aged, chained as a
                            prisoner; his path lay along the way which many a conqueror had
                            travelled before; but no car of victory was for him, no medals were on
                            his breast, no admiring crowds welcomed him. The chain dangled at  his wrists, and yet Rome never had such a
                            conqueror.

                        Here he stands before Nero. What a contrast there is! Nero stained with
                            every crime, the murderer of his own mother, his soul steeped in every
                            known and unknown vice; and Paul bearing about in his body the marks of
                            the Lord Jesus.

                        At last we see him in prison, and as we stand beside him we see him write
                            to Timothy and say, " It is a damp cell I am in, Timothy, my beloved son
                            in the gospel; send me the old cloak I used to wear;" and then we see
                            him write once more, " It is a lonesome place ; and so, my son, I bid
                            you come to me."

                        The end of his journey is near, and we find him writing to Timothy these
                            words: " For I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure
                            is at hand. I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I
                            have kept the faith; henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of
                            righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at
                            that day;  and not to me only, but unto all
                            them also that love his appearing" (2 Tim. 4: 6-8).

                        And they lead him forth, and he dies for the sake of Him who loved him
                            and gave himself for him. Sin has done its worst; yet it has only opened
                            the prison door and let the soul go free. Rome would not have him, but
                            ten thousand times ten thousand greeted him at the gates of heaven,
                            welcoming him with shouts of rejoicing; and the Master him- self must
                            have said, "Well done, well done; enter thou into the joy of thy
                            Lord."

                        And why is it, may I ask, that Paul did not fail as Peter failed ? For
                            various reasons. He did not follow afar off; he kept in close touch; he
                            separated himself absolutely from the world, and lived only for his
                            Master. And why is it that Paul did not fail as Jacob failed ? For the
                            simple reason that, when he gave himself to Christ, he made no
                            reservations; all there was of him was Christ's. There was no room in
                            his heart for deceit and  no time in his
                            life for the practice of iniquity. He was the bond-servant of Jesus
                            Christ, living for him with every breath that he drew, and counting it a
                            joy to die for him rather than to deny him. And why is it that Paul did
                            not make the failure that Samson did? Simply because he hated sin, and
                            he never trifled with the great adversary; and, hating sin, he knew that
                            Christ was the only Saviour. In every time of temptation he fled to him;
                            in every hour of trial he leaned hard upon him. It was for this reason
                            that he has well earned the title of the subject of this chapter, " The
                            man who said he would, and did."
                    

                
            

            
        
        
            
            

                 BOOKS BY J. WILBUR CHAPMAN. 

                THE SECRET OF A HAPPY DAY.ByRev. J. Wilbur
                    Chapman, D. D.

                16mo, cloth, illustrated with an excellent half-tone portrait of Dr. Chapman, 50
                    cents.

                This book is divided into thirty-one sections, one for every day in the month. At
                    the close of each section there are a few brief " suggestions for to-day." The
                    book is almost entirely based upon that wonderful Twenty-third Psalm, which has
                    brought joy and peace to so many sorrowing hearts.

                Perhaps no part of Scripture has been so universally quoted as the Twenty-third
                    Psalm, and yet what a power for good it is! Dr. Chapman gives it to us in the
                    form of meditative comments, one for each day of the month. His work here, as
                    always, is full of inspiration and guidance.—The Sunday
                        School Times.
            

            
                DAY BY DAY.By Rev. J. Wilbur Chapman,
                    D.D.

                16mo, cloth, 35 cents. This is one of the most helpful of Dr. Chapman's
                    books. It contains thirty "meditations for the morning watch "-one for
                    each day of the month.

                Dr. Chapman's latest book is sure of an eager welcome. The general theme of the
                    book is the deeper communion with God, the winning of the higher life, a putting
                    away of the hindrances of the flesh, and a putting on of the freedom of the
                        Spirit.—The Christian World.

            

            
                THE SURRENDERED LIFE. By Rev. J. Wilbur Chapman, D.
                    D.

                16mo, cloth, 35 cents.

                This book sets forth the life "hid with Christ in God," and the way to enter into
                    it.

                The deep spiritual life is the topic for consideration. Dr. Chapman brings his
                    readers close to God and gives many helpful suggestions.—The
                        Standard.

                UNITED SOCIETY OF CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR, Boston and Chicago.

            

            

            

                FROM LIFE TOLIFEByRev. J.Wilbur Chapman, D.
                    D. 12mo, cloth, $1.00.

                This collection includes a large variety of anecdotes, poems, and other
                    illustrative material drawn from many sources and touching many topics. A
                    leading feature of the book is the large number of incidents taken from life and
                    carrying their own lessons. The compiler gathered the matter for his own use,
                    and only the choicest parts have been selected for this volume.

                The illustrations are apt, forceful, drawn from the world of nature and from the
                    world of men.—The Sunday School Times.

                Dr. Chapman's book contains some of the best of the little things that make the
                    most of our daily human lives.—The Morning Star.
            

            

                The Spiritual Life of the Sunday School.

                By Rev. J. Wilbur Chapman, D. D.
                 16mo, cloth, 35c.; paper, 15c.

                A suggestive book for all Sunday-school workers, dealing with most important
                    features of the workthe personal and official duties and opportunities of
                    officers and teachers, and the study of the Bible in preparation for personal
                    work.

                Sunday-school workers will welcome the wise suggestions as to the necessary
                    qualifications for the spiritual responsibilities and obliga- tions of Sunday-school work, so clearly set forth in this handy little
                        volume.—The Sunday School Times.

                It ought to be read by every Sunday-school teacher and superin tendent.—The Watchword.

                UNITED SOCIETY OF CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR, Boston and Chicago.

            

            

            


                STUDIES in the LIFE OF CHRIST.

                By Rev. Thomas Eddy Taylor, Mr. S. Earl Taylor, Rev. C. H. Morgan.
            


            

                The Text-book for Christian Endeavor Bible-Study
                    Classes.

                8vo, 256 pages, superbly printed, bound in cloth.

                Price, 75 cents, postpaid.

                (In sets of ten, at purchaser's expense, 50 cents each.)

                The narrative covers Christ's life so compactly that five minutes a day will give
                    the complete story in the thirty-five weeks. All the main steps in the life of
                    Christ stand out clearly in their order. The studies are so simple, and yet so
                    comprehensive that those not accustomed to a course of study, both old and
                    young, will follow this course with interest and profit.

            


            

                THE BIBLE MARKSMAN.

                By Amos R. Wells. 16mo, cloth, 35c.

                This book presents an entirely new system of Bible-marking. Fifty-two topics-the
                    most important themes treated in the Bible-are chosen, one for each week of the
                    year. Each of these is divided into seven sub-topics, one for each day, and
                    under each sub-topic the most important texts are given, which are linked
                    together by a simple method of cross-reference. There is a chapter on
                    Bible-study, and a full topical index transforms the volume into a convenient
                    reference book for Bible students.

                The plan is clear and original, and cannot be spoken of too highly. —Reform Review.

            


            
                A BIBLE YEAR.

                By Amos R. Wells. 16mo, cloth, 35c.

                A complete course of Bible reading by which the entire Scriptures are completed
                    in one year. Suggestions for daily meditations and for further Bible study are
                    given in abundance. In fact, it is a complete manual of Bible study useful to
                    all, and especially to those who have not yet read the Bible through. Handsomely
                    bound in red and black.

                A better guide for those who desire to read the Bible thoroughly and
                    Intelligently could not be desired.—The Observer.

                 UNITED SOCIETY OF CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR, Boston and Chicago.

            

            

            

                BOOKS FOR CHRISTIAN WORKERS.


                Our Workers' Library.

                16mo, cloth bindings, 35c. each, postpaid. All twelve volumes, $3.25,
                    postpaid.

                THE OFFICERS' HANDBOOK. By Amos R. Wells. A manual for the
                    officers of young people's societies, together with chapters upon parliamentary
                    law, business meetings, etc.

                FIFTY MISSIONARY PROGRAMMES. By Belle M. Brain. Valuable
                    suggestions upon ideal missionary meetings, together with fifty entirely
                    different programmes for missionary meetings, treating all missionary lands and
                    all phases of the subject.

                THE MISSIONARY MANUAL. By Amos R. Wells. The most complete
                    handbook of methods for missionary work in young people's societies ever
                    published.

                FUEL FOR MISSIONARY FIRES. By Belle M. Brain. 115 pages of
                    practical plans for missionary committees. Everything tried and proved.

                PRAYER-MEETING METHODS. By Amos R. Wells. This book contains by
                    far the most comprehensive collection of prayer-meeting plans ever made.

                SOCIAL EVENINGS. By Amos R. Wells. This is the most widely used
                    collection of games and social entertainments ever made.

                SOCIAL TO SAVE. By AmosR. Wells. Acompanionvolume to " Social
                    Evenings." A mine of enjoyment for the society and home circle.

                OUR UNIONS. By Amos R. Wells. Wholly devoted to Christian
                    Endeavor unions of all kinds, their officers, work, and conventions.

                WEAPONS FOR TEMPERANCE WARFARE. By Belle M. Brain. Full of
                    ammunition for temperance meetings. Hundreds of facts, illustrations,
                    suggestions, programmes.

                NEXT. STEPS. By Rev. W. F. McCauley. A book for every Christian
                    Endeavor worker. It is a storehouse of suggestions.

                CITIZENS IN TRAINING. ByAmosR.Wells. Acomplete manual of
                    Christian citizenship. Written especially for those that desire to make their
                    country better.

                EIGHTY PLEASANT EVENINGS. Abook of social entertainments
                    intended for young people's societies, church workers, temperance unions, and
                    for individual use.

                UNITED SOCIETY OF CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR, Boston and Chicago.

            


        


    
