
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Conklin, Julia S. (Julia Stout), 1853-1948.. The young people's history of Indiana. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2012).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAB9261


	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		



			

			
				FRONTISPIECE
				
					
						THE CAPITOL OF INDIANA.
					
				
			

			
			
				
					
						THE YOUNG PEOPLE'S HISTORY
						OF INDIANA 
				

				BY JULIA S. CONKLIN.

				
					INDIANAPOLIS:
					SENTINEL PRINTING COMPANY,
					1899.
				

			

			
			
				VERSO

				

				COPYRIGHT 1899
					BY JULIA S. CONKLIN.

				
			
			

			
				DEDICATION
				DEDICATION.

				

				To my nephews, Myron and Emil Cook, and the little girl who tried so
					hard to "be good" while auntie wrote this book.
			

			

			
				EPIGRAPH

				
					"The winds of Heaven never fanned
					The circling sunlight never spanned,
					The borders of a fairer land Than our own Indiana."
				


				--Sarah T. Bolton.
			

			

			


				A LETTER.

				
				
					
						
							
								
										My Dear Young Friends:

								You have read of Aladdin and his wonderful lamp and of the genii who turned
									everything into glittering gold, and commonplace surroundings into palaces of
									delight.
								The story I have to tell you is more wonderful than any tale of fairy or genie.
									It tells how an almost limitless wilderness was turned into a great and prosperous
									State--not in a moment's time, by the waving of a wand--but by the patient toil of
									thousands of brave and sturdy men and women, in a period of less than one hundred
									years. They were the genii who swept away the forests, made the farms, built the
									cities and established civilization.
								The merit of this story lies in the truth of its magic, and in this it is
									superior to any fairy tale. There are those yet living who have witnessed much of
									this wonderful transformation, and it seems a fitting time, at the close of this
									Nineteenth Century, that the young people of Indiana should be told that all the
									growth, all the progress and improvement in Indiana has been made since 1800.
									Indeed, Indiana is one of the miracles of the closing century.
								In giving this little book to you it is my sincere desire that you may derive
									half the pleasure in reading that I did in writing it. This is scarcely to be
									expected, however, for the entire year which I devoted to its preparation was a
									constant delight--the very happiest of my life, so in point of time, at least, I
									have the advantage of my readers.
								If, like the heroes and heroines of the old fairy tales, I should be granted
									three wishes concerning this book--shall I tell you what they would be?
								1st. I would create in the minds and hearts of the boys and girls of Indiana a
									genuine love and pride for our State; a desire to know more about her and a
									determination to be worthy to be called her citizens.
								2d. I would teach them that in the Union of States there is none better than our
									own; that nowhere does the sun shine brighter, do the birds sing sweeter, nor are
									the flowers more fragrant  than in Indiana; that her
									cities are as beautiful, her fields as fertile, her institutions as great, her
									people as talented as any to be found on the continent.
								3d. I would teach them to love and respect the memory of the men and women, who,
									by toil and through hardships made Indiana what she is to-day. They were not all
									cultured men and women, perhaps, and some of them were uneducated, but they were
									brave and true, and we are indebted to them for all the advantages we enjoy.
								There has long been a tendency to depreciate our own State. We have not been a
									boastful commonwealth; we have not exalted our own. But the time has come when the
									word "Hoosier" is no longer a term of ridicule, but one in which we may take
									pride. The time will come when like Rome of old, we may say,
									"Why, to be a 'Hoosier' is greater than a king."
								I cannot close without acknowledging my obligation to those friends who gave me
									timely aid in the preparation of this book. Some of them must be nameless, but I
									am none the less grateful to them. Among the books that have been helpful to me I
									would mention J. B. Dillon's "History of Indiana"; W. H. English's "Conquest of
									the Northwestern Territory"; W. W. Woollen's "Biographical Sketches of Early
									Indiana"; J. P. Dunn's "Indiana a Redemption from Slavery"; W. H. Smith's "History
									of Indiana," and W. W. Thornton's "Government of the State of Indiana."
								I am under a deep sense of gratitude to the Hon. William Wesley Woollen,
									President of Indiana Historical Society, for his great kindness and helpful advice
									in my work. I send this little book to meet its fate with greater courage and
									confidence because he has said "It is well."

								
									J. S. C.
									
										
						Westfield, Ind.,
										Aug. 26, 1899.
									
								
							
						
					
			



			

			
				CONTENTS
				

					


					CHAPTER
						PAGE

					Pre-Historic Indiana--The Mound Builders--North American Indians9

					Early Explorations--Missionaries--LaSalle Visits Indiana, Discovers the
						Mouth of the Mississippi River and Takes Possession of the Country in the Name of
							France19

					The French King Causes Forts to be Built--The Territory Divided into Two
						Provinces--French Forts in Indiana--The British Gain a Foothold in Indiana--Passes into
						the Hands of the British--War Between England and Mexico29

					Pontiac's War--Indians Attack the Forts and Control the Ohio Valley39

					Indiana Becomes a Part of Canada--England at War with the American
						Colonies--Revolutionary War49

					Conquest of the Northwestern Territory by George Rogers Clark54

					Fort Gage (Vincennes) Surrenders to the Americans--Re-taken by the
						British--Captured by Colonel Clark--The First American Flag Displayed in Indiana66

					Colonel John Todd Becomes Ruler Over the Territory--Condition of the
						Settlers--Miami Confederacy--Indiana the Property of the United States--Indian
							Outbreaks78

					First Laws Published in Indiana--Territorial Legislature Formed-Vincennes91

					The Northwestern Territory Divided--Indiana Territory Formed--Wm. Henry
						Harrison Governor--Aaron Burr--Negro Slavery Indiana Territory Divided--Second Grade
						Government--First Territorial Legislature101

					Tecumseh and the Prophet--Fort Harrison Erected--Battle of Tippecanoe--The
						Prophet's Influence Destroyed112

					Indian Outbreaks--War of 1812--Fort Harrison Attacked--Suffering of the
						Settlers--Tecumseh Killed--Indians Murdered Near Pendleton130

					Capital Removed to Corydon--Right of Suffrage Extended--Thomas Posey
						Appointed Governor--Congress Passes an Act Enabling Indiana to Form a State
							Constitution145

					First Constitutional Convention--Indiana Becomes a State--Jonathan Jennings
							Govenor152

					Why it is Necessary that States Should Have Constitutions--Division of State
						Government--Duties of State, County and Township Officers157

					Recapitulation--Journey to the Forest Home--Settler's Cabin--Hardships of
						Pioneer Life--Progress of a Hundred Years168

					Life and Occupations of the Settlers--Unhealthful Condition of the
						Country--Improvement in Manner of Living181

					Surveying--Difficulties Encountered by the Early Surveyors--Sale of
							Land189

					

					Character of the Early Settlers--Religious Worship--The Circuit Riders--New
							Harmony198

					First Schools in Indiana--Difficulties of Obtaining an Education--Spelling
							Schools203

					Public School System--How a Public School Fund was Established and
						Maintained--Other Schools and Colleges213

					Land Donated for a State Capital--Indianapolis on Paper--As It Was, and
						Is--Governor's Circle--First Railroad220

					Internal Improvement System--Roads and Canals in Indiana--Financial
						Distress--State Debt228

					The Old National Road--Manner of Travel--Stage Coaches--Wagoners--Coming
						of the Railroads239

					The Second Constitutional Convention--The Men Who Made Our
						Constitution--Their Nationality and Occupations249

					The First Legislature Under the New Constitution--The Laws of the State Re
						constructed--How Laws are Made257

					Early Indiana Banks--Method of Banking--Anti-Slavery
						Movement--Underground Railroad264

					The War for the Union--Indiana's Response to the Call for
						Volunteers--Special Session of the Legislature--Indianapolis a Great Military Center267

					The War in Indiana--Johnson with a Band of Guerrillas Invades Newburg277

					John Morgan Crosses the Ohio River and Invades Southern Indiana--Alarm
						Throughout the State--State Troops March Against Morgan--He Makes His Escape into Ohio
						and is Captured284

					Indiana After the War--Return of the Troops--Educational Advancement--The
						Present School System--Taxes--How Property is Taxed296

					Penal and Benevolent Institutions--How the State Provides for Its
						Criminals and Unfortunate Citizens304

					Territorial Militia--Muster Day--Militia Abandoned--Indiana National
						Guards Organized--The Spanish-American War--Indiana's Part In It310

					First Courts in Indiana--Judicial System of the State--Elections--Who are
						Entitled to Vote--How Elections are Conducted and the Results Declared317

					Roads and Highways--Difficulty of Early Travel--Road Improvements--How
						Roads are Located and Built--Indiana Drainage System326

					Physical Indiana--Fertility of the Soil--Hills, Lakes and
						Caverns--Natural Resources--Coal--Building Stone--Natural Gas332

					Governors of Indiana--Territorial and State--Brief Biographies--Other
						Prominent Men and Women of the State338

					APPENDIX A. Counties--Name and Organization371

					APPENDIX B. Names and Terms of Governors373

					APPENDIX C. United States Senators374

					Tabulated Statement375
					Illustrations.
				
			

		
		
			

				

				THE YOUNG PEOPLE'S HISTORY OF INDIANA.

				

				
					CHAPTER I.

					Pre-Historic Indiana--The Mound Builders--American Indians.

					If you look on the map of the United States you will see that about one-fourth of the
						distance across the continent from east to west, and near the center from north to
						south, lies that part of the country known by the pleasing name of Indiana.
					To the north lies the State of Michigan, and the northwestern corner is laved by a lake
						of the same name, on whose broad waters float great ships of commerce. On the east
						borders the State of Ohio, and on the west stretch the broad prairies of Illinois. The
						Ohio River winds its crooked way through the hills on the south, and by its meanderings
						forms the irregular outline of the southern part of the State. Across this noted stream
						rise the beautiful hills of Kentucky, sometimes called the "Gateway to the South," and
						on its waters are to be seen the river steamers and other boats which ply between
						Pittsburg and New Orleans.
					The distance across Indiana from east to west is about one hundred and fifty miles, and
						the extreme length is two hundred and seventy-six miles. Within these boundaries lie
						thirty-five thousand nine hundred and ten square miles*of land as rich and productive as can be found in America.

					

					**McNally, 1895.

					

					Now, let us look at the map of Indiana, and see what we can learn from it. The first
						thing which attracts our attention, is the numerous crooked lines which wind about over
						its surface. These are the rivers and creeks which drain the country, and help to make
						it fertile by carrying off the waste water, which, if allowed to remain on the land, or
						to sink into the ground, would render it unhealthful and unfit for cultivation.
					The largest of these streams is the Wabash River, which enters the State from the east,
						and after flowing in a northwesterly direction for some distance, changes its course and
						flows in a southwesterly direction across the State, forming a part of the boundary on
						the west, between Indiana and Illinois, and empties into the Ohio River in the extreme
						southwestern corner of Indiana.
					In the northeastern part of Indiana, two other rivers, the St. Joseph and St. Mary,
						unite and form the Maumee River, which flows in a direction exactly opposite to the
						Wabash, and finds its way to Lake Erie in the northeast. It seems curious that these two
						streams so near each other, should flow in exactly opposite directions. The reason of
						this is that the land between these streams is very high; in fact, it is one of the
						highest points in the State, and the water which falls in this locality divides itself,
						a part of it flowing into the Maumee, on the northeast, the remainder flowing into the
						streams which empty into the Wabash, on the southwest, just as the water which falls
						upon the roof of a house divides and flows down to the eaves on both sides. This high
						point of land is called a water-shed, and here Fort Wayne, which is sometimes
						appropriately called the "Summit City," is located.
					
					The next largest streams of water in Indiana, are the two forks of White River, which
						rise in the eastern part of the State, and flow toward the southwest until they near the
						Wabash, where they unite, and continuing their course, empty into that river about
						twenty miles below the city of Vincennes; here they all unite and journey together until
						they reach the Ohio River.
					In the northwest the Kankakee River seeks an outlet through the Illinois River to the
						Mississippi. There are many other smaller streams in the State, and they nearly all find
						their way to the Wabash, and finally reach the Gulf of Mexico through the Ohio and
						Mississippi Rivers.
					Examine the map yet more closely and you will see many, many little dots scattered over
						the surface; there are hundreds of them, and they represent cities, towns and villages.
						Look closely and you will see that they are almost all connected with each other,
						directly, or indirectly, by finely drawn lines. These are railroads, and there are so
						many of them that they form a network of iron over the State. (Indiana has 8,487 miles
						of railroads.) Look again, and you will see that many of these lines come together and
						unite at one point near the center of the State, and at this point there is a larger
						dot, or star; that represents Indianapolis, the capital of Indiana. Here lives the
						Governor, and here the laws are made which govern the people of the State. It is a great
						city, and there are other large and important cities in Indiana of which we will speak
						later. The entire State is enriched by them and their industries.
					Between these cities, towns and villages lies a vast agricultural district. No State
						can boast of finer farms, or richer land than ours. As far as the eye can reach stretch
							 meadows, orchards and fields of grain, with cool, shady
						woodlands here and there, which add beauty to the landscape. Comfortable and prosperous
						homes are seen on every side. Cottages and mansions are scattered here and there, and
						everywhere are seen evidences of thrift and prosperity. Every neighborhood has a
						school-house, and churches lift aloft their pointed spires and seem to direct us to a
						life beyond the skies. These homes are connected with each other and with the schools,
						churches, villages and cities, by roads called public highways. By means of them the
						people can communicate with each other, and can know what is taking place in the big
						world outside their own community.
					But it was not always so. There was a time, many years ago, when this broad, prosperous
						land was but a wilderness; a deep, dark, almost impenetrable forest, whose occupants
						were wild beasts, feathered songsters, slimy reptiles and tribes of wild men. There were
						no homes, no schools, no churches, but from the shores of the Ohio River to the Northern
						Lakes, and on, on, there were vast forests, unknown to the white man's tread. The
						restless streams which drain our beautiful country, wound their way through forest
						glades and only knew the dip of the Indian canoe,--those shady isles, but the stealthy
						tread of wild beasts and wild men.
					For how many ages those deep forests had been undisturbed save by the red men, no one
						can tell; neither is it known whence the Indians came; but however long may have been
						the time that the North American Indians possessed this country, it is certain that
						before their coming, the territory of Indiana was inhabited by another people,  between whom and the Indians no one has been able to
						establish a connecting link. For want of a better name, these people are spoken of as
						the "Mound Builders." This name is given them on account of the large number of mounds
						of earth and stone which they have left to tell us of their existence. These mounds are
						found in different parts of the State, especially in the eastern and southern
						portions.
					Nothing is known of the Mound Builders except what has been learned from the objects
						taken from the mounds, which men have opened and examined. The articles usually found
						are fragments of pottery and implements of stone. Skeletons have also been found buried
						beneath these great heaps of earth and stone, which doubtless have lain there for
						hundreds of years, and it seems strange when we remember that they were one time living
						beings, like ourselves.
					From the location of these mounds, which sometimes take one form, sometimes another, it
						is supposed that the Mound Builders were an agricultural people, and cultivated the
						ground about their homes, for the country around these mounds is well adapted to
						farming--fertile, well drained and usually situated near some water-course. The size of
						the mounds, which are sometimes but a few feet high, and sometimes many feet above the
						level of the ground, proves that the country was at one time thickly inhabited by these
						unknown people, for with their means of digging and hauling earth and stones, many
						workmen must have been employed a great many months in their erection.
					When the country now called Indiana was first discovered by Europeans, it was claimed
						and possessed by a number  of Indian tribes called the
						Miami Confederacy. The greatest among these tribes were the Miami Indians, who, in
						former times, were called Twightwees. The Miamis were very powerful and influential
						among the other Indian tribes. They were greatly feared by their enemies and much sought
						after by tribes needing assistance.
					When people organize for the purpose of government, there must be some method of
						grouping them. With the white race, this is done according to territory; that is, a man
						or a woman belongs to a certain State, or county, or township; but the Indians divided
						themselves into tribes according to kinship, and were governed by a chief, or a number
						of chiefs. Sometimes several tribes would unite and form a confederacy for the purpose
						of protecting themselves against other unfriendly tribes. So it was with the tribes
						which occupied Indiana. The territory claimed by this confederacy covered the entire
						States of Indiana, Michigan and Illinois, and a portion of Ohio.
					We have no means of knowing when the Miami Indians came to this country, nor whence
						they came. The Indians had no written language, and no record of events except the
						"Indian legends," the truth of which we have no means of proving, but "Little Turtle," a
						distinguished Miami chief, said that his fathers had occupied the country from "time
						immemorial."
					When first known, these tribes lived in small villages built at different places within
						the territory, principally near the Wabash River and its tributaries. Their dwellings
						were rude huts made of small logs, or wigwams made of poles stuck in the ground and tied
						together with pliant strips of bark, and covered with the skins of animals, large pieces
							 of bark, or a kind of mat made of flags which grew in
						swampy places. Some of these lodges, or wigwams, were portable and were moved from place
						to place when the Indians scattered during the hunting season. In summer they hunted and
						fished, or made war upon other tribes. In winter they gathered in villages and passed
						the time in games and play. 
					The men made weapons of war which, before the coming of the whites, consisted of a
						spear or javelin, a bow and arrows, pointed with barbed stone, a tomahawk, or stone
						hatchet fastened to a handle by withes, and a war club made by enclosing a stone in
						rawhide, with a handle made of the same material twisted and hardened. Their canoes were
						made of logs burned out and made smooth with sharp shells, or of birch bark which the
						women sewed together with long, strong threads which they peeled from the roots of
						trees. The women dressed the game which the hunters brought home, cooked the food and
						carried the burdens when they moved from place to place.
					Around their permanent villages, patches of ground were cleared, and on these the women
						raised corn, beans, squashes, pumpkins, melons, tobacco and a kind of wild cucumber.
						They had no tools such as farmers use, but dug up the ground with the sharp bones of
						animals, tortoise shells, or flat stones. Later, they exchanged furs with the whites for
						iron hoes. The Indians were not very thoughtful for their future wants, and would feast
						one day and go hungry the next.
					Their clothing was made of the skins of animals, sometimes rudely embroidered with
						beads made of shells. They were very fond of decorations and adorned themselves with  the claws and teeth of animals and the beaks and feathers of
						birds, quite like the civilized people of to-day. The men wore but little clothing and
						tatooed the exposed parts of the body, while the women were usually well clothed. Both
						men and women went bareheaded, wore their hair long and painted their faces. They wore
						moccasins on their feet, and made necklaces, bracelets and belts of shells, which they
						wore around their necks, arms and ankles, and some tribes wore large rings in their ears
						and noses. In their councils they used belts made of beads, called wampum, as pledges
						with each other, and carefully preserved them as we do written records. The beads of the
						wampum belts were made of shells found on the seashore, and sawed into an oblong form,
						about a quarter of an inch long, and made round like other beads. They were strung on
						leather strings and several strands sewed together with fine sinewy thread. The shells
						were usually of two colors, violet and white. The violet were more highly prized by the
						Indians, who valued them as we do gold, silver and precious stones. Wampum belts were
						often worked in figures, expressing the meaning they were intended to preserve. Thus, at
						a treaty of peace the principal belt often bore the figures of an Indian and a white man
						holding a chain between them.
					The Indians were very fond of games, especially those of chance. The little Indian boys
						amused themselves by flying kites, playing at ball and bat, marbles, and many other
						games that white boys like to play--such as hide and seek, leaping, climbing, and
						shooting with bows and arrows. The little girls had their dolls, and doubtless made
						clothes for them out of the skins of little animals, and played at house-keeping in
						queer little bark wigwams, and, in fact, were  much like
						other children who imitate the lives and occupations of those about them.
					The Indian mothers had a very strange way of taking care of their babies, or pappooses,
						as they called them. When very young they were bound fast to a board to make them grow
						straight. When the mother went on a journey, or wished to move them from place to place,
						she carried them strapped to her back. When at her journey's end, or when she wished to
						rest or sleep, she stood the board against some object, or fastened it to the boughs of
						a tree, where the little one was rocked to sleep by the swaying boughs and slept as
						cosily as any little white child in its snowy crib at its mother's side.
					The Indians expressed their anger, their joys and their sorrows in wild dances. They
						practiced a great variety of them, all of which had some particular meaning. They had
						the corn-planting dance, by which they hoped to secure the favor of the "Great Spirit"
						that their crops might be bountiful; the beggar dance; the dance after the death of one
						of their tribe; the dance of the medicine man, after he had cured disease, and many
						others. But the greatest of all their dances, and the one that best satisfied their
						savage natures, was the war dance.
					They were kind and hospitable to their friends, but very cruel to their enemies. When a
						prisoner was taken in war, he was certain to be put to death with the most horrible
						tortures, by slow fire, the ceremony of living cremation often lasting an entire day
						before the unfortunate victim was allowed to end his sufferings in death. Neither old
						nor young, men nor women, were spared these cruel tortures, unless some one of the tribe
						who had lost a member of his  family, chose to adopt the
						captive to take his place. One of the principal burning places in Indiana was on the
						north bank of the Maumee River, where the St. Joseph and the St. Mary Rivers unite.
					Near all the Indian villages were cemeteries, where the dead were buried, for only the
						living were burned. With the dead warrior were usually placed his weapons, his ornaments
						and a dish, or jar, containing food, for the Indians believed that the spirit of the
						dead needed food as it journeyed to the "happy hunting-ground," which was their heaven.
						The Indians had a strange and wild religion. They believed in a "Great Spirit" who ruled
						the world. They believed in a future existence, a life after death, a transfer to a
						happier state, or condition, where they would have the same desires, and enjoy the same
						pleasures, in a country abounding in game, where they could hunt and fish to their
						heart's content. They also believed in a "Bad Spirit," but had no fear of its troubling
						them after death.
					It is difficult to believe that the habit of eating human flesh was ever common in
						Indiana; yet it is true that these Indian tribes were almost all of them at one time
						cannibals, and those slain in battle, as well as captives, were made objects of the
						feast, and in times of famine it was the custom to kill and eat their kindred. The Miami
						Indians continued this practice longer than any other tribe--indeed, until after the
						Revolutionary war. It became a religious ceremony with them, and was finally confined to
						one family. It was a strange, terrible religion--very unlike that our Saviour
						taught--which demanded the eating of human flesh, and sometimes that of kindred. The
						early missionaries were often obliged to witness these sickening scenes and were
						powerless to prevent it.
					
					And so, these wild people continued to live for no one knows how many ages, wandering
						through the forests and prairies, floating down the streams in their log or bark canoes,
						worshiping in their savage way, killing wild animals and fighting each other, until the
						nations from over the sea found them, and wanted their land, their game and their furs,
						and then a change came into their lives. From this time they were never again to roam
						their native forests without fear of molestation.
				
				

				
					CHAPTER II.

					Early Explorations--Missionaries--The French take possession of the
						Country.

					From the time Columbus discovered America in 1492, more than one hundred and fifty
						years passed away before any part of Indiana was explored by Europeans; and all that
						time the savages roamed through the forests, fished in the streams, hunted wild animals
						and fought each other. But this was not to last always. Three great nations from over
						the sea--Spain, France and England--heard of this wonderful country which Columbus had
						discovered, and determined to possess at least a portion of it.
					They had been told that the soil was rich and productive; that the forests were full of
						wild game and the streams full of fish. They also believed that gold and silver, perhaps
						precious stones, could be found here, and they sent men in ships across the ocean to
						explore and take possession of the country, to form settlements, or colonies, in order
						to hold  the land and keep out other nations, to barter
						with the Indians and to search for gold.
					Spain sailed across the seas and succeeded in planting a colony in Florida. The first
						permanent English settlement was at Jamestown, Virginia. France went farther north and
						established small colonies at Port Royal, Nova Scotia, and at Quebec, Canada. But they
						were not satisfied to stay in these places. They knew that the great country west was
						full of wild animals with rich and valuable furs, and they sent out men to trade for
						them. They brought articles of various kinds, which they traded to the Indians for the
						furs and skins of animals; these they carried back to their own country and sold.
					They studied the tastes of the wild men, and filled their ships with the things that
						pleased them, such as blankets, bright colored cloth, traps, kettles, hoes, coarse
						cotton, ribbons, beads and other trinkets which delighted the savages. But they did a
						very bad thing; they sold them intoxicating drinks, of which the Indians knew nothing
						until the white men came, and they traded them knives, hatchets, guns, powder and other
						weapons, which the Indians afterward used to fight against the white people when they
						became angry with them, or drunk on the whiskey which they sold them, and their savage
						natures demanded the spilling of blood, or when they became alarmed lest the white men
						should take from them all their game and furs and rob them of the country which they had
						so long regarded as their own.
					Some of the white traders established trading-posts; that is, they built strong houses
						of logs, in which they kept the articles they wished to sell to the Indians. To these
						places  the savages brought their furs and traded them for
						the things they wanted. When the traders had collected a large amount of furs and
						peltries, as the skins of animals were called, they loaded them into canoes and paddled
						down the streams until they reached larger streams, or rivers; then they transferred
						them to larger boats and took them to the towns on the sea coast and sold them to
						merchants, who shipped them to foreign countries.
					Some of the traders were too poor to build trading-posts, so they carried their
						merchandise in packs strapped to their shoulders, or with the strap resting against the
						forehead. In this way they traveled through the forests on foot, or floated down the
						streams in canoes, going from one Indian village to another, trading their goods for
						furs, which they carried back to the settlements and sold, buying other goods and
						trading them in the same manner. Doubtless the, Indian villages in Indiana, on the banks
						of the Wabash and other streams, were visited by this class of traders long before any
						settlements were formed. What a strange life these traders lived, traveling from village
						to village, sleeping under the open sky at night, exposed to all kinds of danger from
						wild beasts and wild men.
					The first traders who came to Indiana were the French, who had settled in Canada, at
						Quebec and Montreal, and who, following the rivers and lakes in the north, opened up
						trade with the Indians through this country. There was a class of men who were called
						"voyageurs," or "woodmen," who, during these early times, did great service to the
						fur-traders. The "voyageurs" were originally young men from Canada, who, disliking the
						restraints of civilization, broke away from their families and took to the woods, living
							 among the Indians and adopting their dress and many of
						their customs. These "coureurs de bois" [kou-reur-de-boa], as the French called them,
						lived wild, reckless, lawless lives, spending the time hunting, fishing and trapping,
						trading with the Indians, gliding through the sluggish streams in their long, narrow
						canoes, sleeping at night in some Indian wigwam or beneath the open sky, and living upon
						the rough food of the forest. They endured all these hardships and preferred them to the
						tamer occupations of the settlers. It was indeed a strange, unenviable life that those
						half savage men lived; however, they were of great use to the early traders, who
						employed them as guides through the forests and pilots on the rivers. The name
						"voyageur" was afterward applied to all men who lived in the forest and did not claim
						some French village as their home.
					As the country became better known, other traders came, and soon France and England
						began to quarrel about the territory and commerce in North America. Each nation secured
						as much land and trade as possible and tried to drive the other nations out of the
						country.
					About the year 1650 the English, who lived in colonies along the Atlantic coast,
						attempted to plant a settlement west of the Alleghany mountains and to open trade with
						the Indians. As early as 1670 the French settlements in Canada had extended along the
						shores of the St. Lawrence River, and the northern boundaries of Lake Ontario and Lake
						Erie, and had sent traders to explore the country bordering on the great Northern Lakes,
						as far west as Lake Superior, and built trading-posts and small forts and stockades at
						several places, for the purpose of protecting the fur trade, and had sent missionaries
						among many tribes of Indians.
					
					In 1668 Father Fermin, a French priest, established a mission among the Seneca Indians,
						and was probably the first missionary who visited Indiana and Illinois. The French were
						a Catholic people, and two of their missionaries, Claude Allouez [A-loo-a] and Claude
						Dablon, were the first white men known to have visited Indiana, yet doubtless the
						traders and woodmen were here before them. Between the years 1670 and 1672 these French
						priests explored the eastern part of Wisconsin, the northeastern portion of Illinois,
						and that part of Indiana which lies north of the Kankakee River, and tried to establish
						missions among the Indians.
					The missionaries were pious men, who, in the early times, left their homes and a
						civilized country and went among the savages, trying to persuade them to abandon their
						wild religion and follow that of our Saviour. They gathered these savage people together
						in their smoky wigwams, or in cabins they had built for the purpose, and prayed and sang
						with them and tried to teach them the lessons Christ taught when He was upon earth. But
						it was very difficult to make the Indians understand the teachings of Christianity. They
						were satisfied with their own religion and did not care to change their wild ways; and,
						though the missionaries labored hard, and endured many privations and dangers, and
						though they succeeded in making better men of a few of the Indians, their efforts were
						but poorly rewarded. Still, they did not despair of doing good, and it will be seen that
						in after years one of them was of great service to the country, and that one act of his
						had important effect upon the history of Indiana.
					The missionaries had great difficulty in traveling through  the country. Sometimes for many days they would not see a single person; sometimes
						they had to cross wide prairies which were like great oceans whose shores could not be
						seen, with no path to guide them, and many streams to cross, over which there were no
						bridges; sometimes they floated down rivers in small boats, and often came to rapids,
						and waterfalls, and rocky places, and were obliged to go ashore and carry their canoe
						and luggage around them to keep from being dashed to pieces. Sometimes they traveled for
						days through dense forests full of wild beasts and poisonous serpents, and had to open a
						passage through brush and thick undergrowth of briars and thorns. Sometimes they waded
						through deep marshes, in which they sank to their knees, and at night they had but the
						ground for a bed, softened, perhaps, by leaves of trees which they scraped together.
						They were constantly exposed to wind and rain and all kinds of weather, and sometimes
						they were taken prisoners by the Indians, and in some cases they were put to death in a
						horrible manner. So, taken altogether, the missionaries had a very hard time of it.
					While the missionaries were trying to teach the savages; and the traders were buying
						their furs and trading them merchandise, a fearless and enterprising young Frenchman
						named Robert Cavalier de La Salle, [Kav-le-a deh La Sal] who had been in command of a
						French fort in Canada, having listened to stories the missionaries and traders told of
						the Mississippi River, and of the rich country through which it flowed, concluded that
						it must fall into the Pacific Ocean and open a way to China and Japan. So he determined
						to explore the country, trade with the Indians and find the mouth of this great river.
						La Salle was well fitted for this.  He was a brave man, not
						afraid of the hardships he knew he must undergo in a country whose inhabitants were wild
						men and beasts. He was well educated, and, what was of great importance, he knew several
						Indian languages; for you must know that the Indians did not all speak the same tongue,
						but many tribes had languages of their own.
					So, one July day, in the year 1669, La Salle, with a company of about thirty men,
						sailors, pilots, carpenters and other mechanics, started on his perilous undertaking to
						find the mouth of the Mississippi River. They loaded their boats with such things as
						they needed and sailed out through the St. Lawrence River into Lake Ontario, until they
						reached its western shore. Here they left the lake to explore the country lying south of
						it. Following the streams, or water courses, which were the highways of the explorers,
						they at last reached the Ohio River, which La Salle believed to be the Mississippi. They
						followed this river for a long distance, and in the voyage traced it in its windings
						along the southern boundaries of Indiana. But the hardships of the journey proved too
						much for the courage of his men, and they all deserted, leaving their brave leader alone
						in the wilderness. After this, he was obliged to return, traveling the entire distance
						alone and living on such food as the Indians gave him, or as he could find in the
						forest.
					This misfortune did not discourage La Salle, and it is said that the following year he
						made another attempt to reach the Mississippi River. This time he passed through the
						northern lakes to the southern shores of Lake Michigan, and explored the country south
						as far as the Kankakee River in northwestern Indiana, and through this channel reached
						the Illinois River.
					
					La Salle continued to explore the country and trade with the Indians, who informed him
						that he could reach the Mississippi by way of the Maumee and Wabash Rivers, but the
						unfriendly Iroquois Indians, who were at war with the Miamis, would not allow the
						traders to use this route very long. He met with many misfortunes, and had much to
						discourage him, but he held fast to his purpose, and in the year 1680 he reached the
						point where Peoria, Illinois, is now situated. Here he built a fort, which he named
						"Creve Cœur," which in English means "Broken Heart." He must have been greatly
						discouraged, indeed, to have given so gloomy a name to his fort.
					Two years after this La Salle again started with ia small exploring party to find a
						passage to the Pacific Ocean. This time he reached the Mississippi through the Illinois
						River, and continuing his journey down that stream, on an April day in the year 1682 he
						reached the Gulf of Mexico. He was the first European to discover the mouth of the
						Mississippi, although the river itself had been known for many years.
					What must have been the thoughts of this brave young adventurer, who, after years of
						hardships and dangers, at last stood upon the shore he had so long been seeking, and
						looked for the first time upon that great, restless body of water! Did he believe he had
						indeed found the passage to the old world for which he had so long been searching? Or
						did he realize that he had discovered a new ocean, and look across its bright waters and
						wonder what was in the world beyond its shores?
					Whatever his thoughts may have been, he did not forget his own country nor his loyalty
						to his king. He built a few  log huts on the bank of the
						river, erected a cross, fastened the arms of France to a tree, conducted some religious
						ceremony, and on April 9, 1682, proclaimed that he had taken possession of the country
						in the name of Louis XIV, king of France. King Louis was greatly pleased with La Salle's
						conduct, and that of other explorers, and at once set up a claim to the country.
					The territory which the French claimed, and which they called Louisiana, in honor of
						their king, included all the land lying between New Mexico and Canada, and extended in
						all directions as far as the sources of the rivers which flow into the Mississippi. This
						included both the Ohio and Mississippi Valleys.
					Thus, you will see that Indiana was first claimed by the French, and that Louis XIV was
						the first ruler over it. We will find that other nations soon claimed and possessed the
						country, and that it passed through many changes before it became a State.
					At this time the Spaniards claimed the Peninsula of Florida and all that country lying
						east and north of New Mexico, as far as the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers. This they
						claimed by right of the discoveries made by Ponce de Leon [Pon-tha da La-on] and
						Hernando de Soto, between the years 1538 and 1552. France, however, paid no attention to
						the claims of Spain, and proceeded to erect a line of forts and trading-posts and to
						establish colonies from the Gulf of Mexico to Lake Michigan.
					It would be interesting to follow La Salle in all his travels through this wild,
						unbroken wilderness, for he spent twenty years of his life in exploring the country,
						trading with the Indians, building forts and trading-posts, and encouraging  the establishment of settlements; and by his knowledge of
						the country, its forests and prairies, its lakes and rivers, and by the maps he made of
						the country he explored, he was able to be of great service to those who came after him.
						He suffered many hardships, privations and dangers, but through all was brave and manly,
						and it interests us to remember that he traced the entire southern boundary of Indiana,
						explored the northwestern corner of the State, and made frequent visits to the Indians
						in Indiana, and at one time persuaded them to join a colony he had established on the
						Illinois River, which he called Post St. Louis, and which was situated about six miles
						below the town of Ottawa, Illinois. La Salle was treacherously murdered by two of his
						followers in 1687, but his settlement on the Illinois long survived him.
					There were other French explorers who also deserve mention. Among them are M. Joliet
						[Zho-le-a], an agent of the French colonial government, and James Miarquette [Mar-ket],
						a missionary. These men explored the country through Michigan and Wisconsin as far west
						as the Mississippi River, and rendered valuable service by their discoveries.
					After these early visits of La Salle, we have no knowledge of Indiana having been
						explored for several years, yet doubtless the traders continued to travel through the
						country, for it is not probable that they would abandon a territory so rich in valuable
						furs.
				

				

				
					CHAPTER III.

					French Forts in Indiana--The Territory passes into the hands of the
						British.

					When the French people heard the wonderful stories told about the country which their
						king claimed in America; that it was rich in valuable furs, and that gold, silver and
						precious stones were to be found there in great quantities, many of them were eager to
						leave their homes in France to try their fortunes in the new world.
					So, ships loaded with emigrants were sent across the ocean, and soon a number of
						colonies, or settlements, were established in Louisiana, as the country was still
						called. The most important of these was New Orleans, above the mouth of the Mississippi
						River.
					The king caused forts to be built for the protection of these settlements and sent
						officers to take charge of them, to keep peace with the Indians and to enforce the laws,
						which were made in Paris, for the government of the colonists. The principal French
						settlements in America at this time were in Canada, and the seat of the general
						government was at Quebec, on the St. Lawrence River.
					It was the purpose of the French king, after he had taken possession of the country, to
						establish a line of forts and settlements from Canada to New Orleans, along the route of
						the Maumee and Wabash Rivers, for the purpose of protecting the fur trade and keeping
						out other nations.
					If you will again look on the map of the United States you will see that boats can sail
						from Quebec up the St. Lawrence  River, across Lake
						Ontario, through the Niagara River to Lake Erie, across Lake Erie to the mouth of the
						Maumee, up that stream to the Wabash, down the Wabash to the Ohio River, thence to the
						Mississippi River and the Gulf of Mexico. It is a wonderful thoroughfare, and was of
						untold value to the traders and settlers before the time of railroads.
					It is true there were many obstacles in the way of the passage of boats. There were
						rocks and rapids, great waterfalls and whirlpools, and there was the portage, or land
						which separates the Maumee and the Wabash Rivers; but these difficulties were overcome,
						and the Indians and traders used these waterways for transporting their goods and furs
						for many years. This line of travel also gave the French two ways of communicating with
						the mother country, one by way of the Gulf of St. Lawrence and the Atlantic Ocean, the
						other by way of the Mississippi River and the Gulf of Mexico.
					One of the first in the chain of forts which the French king proposed to establish was
						erected on the Detroit River, near the city of Detroit, Michigan, in the year 1701.
						During the next few years a number of other forts were erected, three of them within the
						limits of Indiana. One of these was built at the headwaters of the Maumee River, where
						the city of Fort Wayne now stands, and was called Fort Miamis; one on the banks of the
						Wabash River, four miles southwest of the city of La Fayette; this was called Fort
						Ouiatanon [We-aw-ta-non]; and another, erected on the Wabash where the city of Vincennes
						now stands. This fort was called by different names by the people who afterward
						possessed it, but the name given it by the French was "Poste  du Aubache." It finally came to be known by the name of Post Vincennes, in honor of
						its first commander, Frances Morgan de Vincennes.
					The exact time when these posts, or forts, were erected is not certainly known, but
						they were probably built not far from the same time. The most reliable date fixed for
						the establishment of Fort Ouiatanon is 1720; that of Post Vincennes, 1727, while Fort
						Miamis, which is probably the oldest fort in Indiana, was erected between the years 1713
						and 1718.
					Fort Ouiatanon was a trading-post of much importance. It stood about seventy yards from
						the bank of the river, and consisted of perhaps a dozen cabins, surrounded by a
						stockade, built of large posts, pointed at the top, planted close together in a line,
						for a barrier. On account of the rapids just below the city of La Fayette, the large
						boats could go no further up the stream, and all merchandise had to be brought in small
						boats above the rapids to Fort Ouiatanon, where they were placed in large canoes, or in
						pirogues--which were canoes made from the trunks of trees--and taken down the river.
					Fort Vincennes was also a post of importance, and many important events in the early
						history of Indiana took place there. It is probable that a temporary trading-post was
						established at this point before the fort was erected, perhaps as early as 1710 or 1711,
						and in 1726 the missionary Murin was in charge of a French Catholic mission here.
					Fort Miamis occupied a very important position, and not only commanded the entrance to
						the Maumee River, but was situated near the capital of the Miami Confederacy of Indiana,
						which was called Ke-ki-onga. Here their great  councils
						were held, their feasts and important ceremonies celebrated, and here their illustrious
						dead were buried. Here, also, in the early days, came the priests to tell these simple
						children of the forest of the sweet Child Christ and the story of the Cross. It is said
						that La Salle at one time visited Ke-ki-onga. It is certainly known that this was on the
						ancient Indian route between Lake Erie and the Ohio River, and that the Indians made it
						known to the white traders.
					Although the entire country from Canada to the Gulf of Mexico was claimed and possessed
						by the French, with the capital at Paris, the territory was divided into two
						provinces--that of Canada and Louisiana. The dividing line on the Wabash River was at
						the point where the city of Terre Haute stands, which the English afterward called the
						"Highlands of the Wabash." By this division, Post Ouiatanon belonged to the province of
						Canada and was under military control of Detroit, while Post Vincennes belonged to
						Louisiana, with the capital at New Orleans.
					In the year 1721 Louisiana was divided into nine districts, which were named New
						Orleans, Biboxi, Mobile, Natchez, Alabama, Yazoo, Arkansas, Natchitoche [Nak-e-tosh] and
						Illinois. Indiana belonged to the district of Illinois. The capital, or seat of the
						military government, for the district of Illinois was at Fort Chartres, on the
						Mississippi River. This was the first capital of Indiana, although it was many years
						before the name "Indiana" was given to our State. So, with the French capital at Paris,
						the capital of Louisiana at New Orleans, and the capital of the district of Illinois at
						Fort Chartres, the affairs of government in Indiana were very much mixed, and must have
						puzzled the  inhabitants, if they took the trouble to think
						about them at all.
					King Louis XIV died in 1715, and Louis XV became king of France and ruler over the
						French territory in America. But this king and his nobles cared more for making fortunes
						for themselves out of the colonies they planted in Louisiana than they did for the
						welfare of the colonists, and instead of making wise laws for their protection and
						government, they taxed them all they could pay, and placed the commerce of the country
						in the hands of a company that made them buy everything they used from the company's
						stores at very high prices, and paid them very low prices for their produce. This was
						very discouraging to the poor people who had come to this new country to make homes and
						earn a living for themselves and families.
					The French king did another foolish thing; he gave large tracts of land to favored
						persons, and bestowed upon them such titles as the "counts" and "marquisses of the
						Mississippi." It seems absurd that many persons should seek these titles, and think
						themselves very aristocratic, indeed, because of them. Many of these titled land-holders
						never saw their possessions in America, but sent out ships filled with officers, who
						were to look after their estates and send the profits to the owners in France. But the
						officers they sent were not the kind of men needed in a new country. They refused to
						till the ground, or raise produce even for their own use, and spent the time searching
						for gold, silver and precious stones. They came to America to make their fortunes, and
						failing to do this, they became vagabonds and lived off the labor of those who were
						willing to work. As a consequence, the French settlements in America did not become very
						strong.
					
					But what had England been doing all this time? I assure you she had by no means been
						idle, but had planted colonies up and down the coast of the Atlantic Ocean, reaching
						westward as far as the Alleghany Mountains, and claimed the right to extend her
						territory as far west as she chose, and had already attempted to establish a settlement
						on the western side of the Alleghanies. This greatly displeased the French, who claimed
						the entire Ohio and Mississippi Valleys, and they determined to resist all attempts of
						the English to enter their country. The British, however, gained a foothold in this
						territory, in 1748, by making friends with the Miami Indians on the Wabash River, and
						securing their consent to enter the territory, and to trade and form settlements. As a
						result, Indiana was claimed by both France and England.
					About this time the British formed a company, which they called the "Ohio Company," for
						the purpose of planting English settlements west of the Alleghany Mountains, and to aid
						them in this, George II, king of England, granted or deeded the company a half million
						acres of land, lying on or near the Ohio River, and gave them the exclusive privilege of
						trading with the Indians. Soon after this, a number of English traders crossed the
						mountains and began to trade with some Indian tribes. This made the French very angry.
						They claimed that the English had no right to trade on their land, and the Governor
						General of Canada, who was the highest French officer in America, sent a company of men,
						under Captain Louis Celeron, to explore the country between Detroit and the Alleghany
						Mountains.
					This they did, and they took possession of the country in the name of Louis XV, king of
						France, just as La Salle had  done when he discovered the
						mouth of the Mississippi River, and they buried inscribed plates of lead at the mouth of
						the principal rivers, along the streams and in other important places, to show that they
						possessed the country.
					Not long afterward, the Governor of Pennsylvania received warning from Captain Celeron
						that the English were exposing themselves to danger by trespassing upon territory
						belonging to the French. He also received notice that persons found guilty of further
						trespass upon "French soil" would be liable to arrest. The English paid no attention to
						these threats, however, and continued to trade with the Indians as before.
					At this time the population of the English in America was much greater than that of the
						French, there being one million fifty-one thousand English, and only fifty-two thousand
						French. One reason for this was that many of the French who came to America were
						adventurers, who spent the time searching for gold, and did not attempt to make homes
						for themselves and their families. They lived wandering, restless lives, and formed but
						few permanent settlements. The English pursued a different course. They encouraged
						emigrants to bring their families to America, and to establish large colonies, build
						comfortable houses, till the land and engage in other trades and industries. The result
						was that the English increased in strength and numbers, while the French force weakened.
						Notwithstanding this great inequality in strength and numbers, the French were ready to
						resist the English in their attempt to settle or trade on what they considered French
						territory.
					While the French and English were quarreling about the land and commerce of the
						territory, and each was trying to  get possession of as
						much land and trade as possible, three small colonies of French people gathered about
						the forts in Indiana. Frances Morgan de Vincennes, who had been appointed commander of
						Post Vincennes, with authority to rule over the colony, was killed in an expedition
						against the Natchez Indians, in 1736. He was a good man and had wisely governed the
						little colony. He died exhorting his men to be worthy of their religion and of their
						country.
					After his death, Louis St. Ange was placed in command at Post Vincennes. He, too, was a
						wise and good man, and continued to command the fort as long as the French held
						possession of the country. St. Ange led a quiet, peaceful life at the little fort on the
						banks of the Wabash, with the Indians and a few French families for his neighbors. He
						was a wise and discreet officer and ruler, and was much loved by the people. He was kind
						and generous and managed the affairs of the little colony in such a way as to gain the
						approval of his superior officers, as well as the love of those over whom he ruled.
					And so the years passed peacefully away. The French settlers lived careless, happy
						lives, farming a little, fishing, hunting and trading, living at peace with the Indians
						and adopting many of their customs. They had but few wants, and they were easily
						satisfied. They were free from taxes and cared but little about the things which were
						taking place in the world outside of their own little community, shut in by the gloomy
						forests, deep streams and spreading prairies. But a change was coming to disturb their
						quiet lives, and fears were soon to take the place of all this peaceful security.
					The quarrel between the French and the English continued 
						to grow. The English insisted upon forming settlements and hunting and trading where
						they chose. The French were more and more determined that they should not trespass upon
						land which they claimed as theirs, and they built forts in many places northwest of the
						Ohio River to keep the English out of the country, and garrisoned them with French
						soldiers, and by the aid of the Indians, who were friendly to them, they captured
						several English traders on the borders of the Ohio, and took from them their furs and
						other goods, and captured a block-house and trading-post, which an agent of the Ohio
						Company had built at Loggstown, on the Ohio River. This made the Miami Indians, who were
						friendly to the English, very angry, and they captured three French traders and sent
						them prisoners to the English, in Pennsylvania.
					The British adopted the plan proposed by Dr. Benjamin Franklin, to capture all the
						forts which the French had erected, and either destroy them or garrison them with
						British soldiers. So, in the month of May, 1754, Governor Dinwiddie, of Virginia,
						instructed Major George Washington, with a company of about two hundred men, to march
						against a fort which the French were building at the place where the Alleghany and
						Monongahela Rivers unite to form the Ohio, where now the city of Pittsburg stands.
					No doubt these brave Virginia soldiers and their gallant leader felt very proud and
						hopeful as they marched away in their bright uniforms, to the sound of the fife and
						drum, with the colors of King George waving in the breeze. As they neared the fort,
						however, a company of French soldiers came to meet them and ordered Major Washington to
						withdraw his forces from French territory. He refused to do  this, and the Virginians were attacked by the French and compelled to retreat, much
						to their chagrin.
					When the English authorities heard of the defeat of Washington and the Virginia troops,
						and that the French still held possession of Fort Du Quesne [Du Ken], as it was called,
						they at once determined to engage in war against the French, and directed the English
						colonists to take up arms against them.
					Thus began the war between France and England conccrning their possessions in America,
						which is known as the "French and Indian war," and which lasted almost eight years, and
						was finally ended by a treaty made at Paris between the two nations, February 10, 1763.
						By this treaty France ceded to Great Britain not only Canada and Nova Scotia, but all
						the territory claimed by the French lying east of the Mississippi River, except the town
						of New Orleans and the island on which it stands. The navigation of the Mississippi
						River was opened free, from its source to the Gulf of Mexico. Thus the territory of
						Indiana passed from the hands of the French to that of the British; but the Indians, who
						were hostile to the English, did not allow them to take possession of the country for
						more than a year. At this time there were only about one hundred French families in what
						is now Indiana. About eighty of these lived at Vincennes. Fourteen families were at Fort
						Ouitanon, and nine or ten at Fort Wayne. These three small colonies were the only white
						settlements within the present State of Indiana.
					The Indians took part in all the conflicts between the French and English in their
						efforts to hold possession of the country. They were divided in their opinions and
						likings,  some tribes being the allies of the French, while
						others were friendly toward the English, and many Indians, as well as white men, lost
						their lives before peace was declared.
					Before the treaty between France and Great Britain, France had secretly ceded to Spain
						all that part of Louisiana west of the Mississippi, but it did not pass into her
						possession until the year 1769.

					
				

				
					CHAPTER IV.

					Pontiac's War--Indians Attack the Forts and Control the
						Country.

					Pontiac was a powerful Ottawa chief. His influence was felt by all the other Indian
						tribes, who were always ready to listen to his counsel and advice. He was friendly
						toward the French people, but hated the English, whom he suspected of the intention to
						take from the Indians their game and hunting-ground.
					While the French possessed the country, they had been kind to the Indians, and to gain
						their friendship and secure their assistance in their attempt to drive the British out
						of the territory they claimed, had given them presents of food and clothing, and armed
						them with rifles with which to fight the English. They treated them with courtesy and
						listened politely to all they had to say on important subjects. The Indians repaid their
						kindness with their friendship and protection. They were angry at the approach of the
						English, whom they considered not only their enemies, but also the enemies of their
						friends, the French. In sorrow and bitterness they saw the "cross of St. George" take
						the place of the "fleur de lis" of France.
					
					The British, feeling confident that they could soon conquer the savages, took no pains
						to gain their good will, but treated them with indifference and contempt. They gave them
						no presents as the French had done, and sometimes made them pay for things which the
						authorities had sent as gifts; they disregarded their feelings and wishes in every way,
						and the Indians became very bitter against them. This feeling was encouraged by the
						French traders, who still hoped that their king would regain the territory he had
						lost.
					Thus encouraged, the Indians formed the plan to prevent the British from taking
						possession of the country. In this they were led by Pontiac. In the fall of 1760, after
						the French had surrendered Canada, but before the entire country was ceded to the
						British, Major Robert Rogers, with a body of English troops, was sent from Montreal to
						take possession of Detroit, which the French had agreed to surrender. While on the way,
						they were met by a messenger of Pontiac, who requested Major Rogers to wait until the
						arrival of the chief. Pontiac came, and there under the spreading branches of the grand
						old forest trees, the British officers and soldiers, dressed in their showy uniforms of
						scarlet and gold, armed with their swords and guns, received the savage chief, who,
						scantily attired in his robes of fur, ornamented with beads and feathers, with bare head
						and tattooed limbs, proudly stood before the enemies of his people and demanded to know
						how they dared to invade his country without his permission.
					Major Rogers explained to the indignant chief that he had no designs against the
						Indians, but that he came to remove the French who had prevented the Indians from being
						friends with the English. He then offered the chief several  belts of wampum, which were accepted. Although not satisfied that the intentions of
						the English were friendly, Pontiac gave Major Rogers a small string of wampum, but
						threateningly said: "I shall stand till morning in the path you are walking," which the
						soldiers understood to mean that they must go no further without his permission.
					The next morning Pontiac returned and held a council with the British officer, and not
						only promised that he should pass unmolested through the country, but himself
						accompanied Major Rogers to Detroit. If Pontiac was sincere in his promises of
						friendship, he either forgot them or changed his mind, for he soon began to plan the
						destruction of the English. It is believed that the French influenced and encouraged the
						Indians in this by telling them that the English intended to take their land and drive
						them from the country, or totally destroy them.
					So, in the spring of 1763, began the war known as "Pontiac's war," which ended
						disastrously to the Indians the following year. Pontiac's plan was to combine the forces
						of all the Indian tribes and attack all the British forts and trading-posts in the
						country northwest of the Alleghany Mountains at the same time, capture them, kill the
						officers and soldiers, or take them prisoners, and then attack the settlements.
					Pontiac went from one tribe to another, and held councils with the chiefs and warriors,
						and made long speeches to them, telling them of his plans to destroy their enemies, and
						persuading many of them to join him; and those he could not persuade he induced to join
						him by threatening to destroy them if they did not; and he caused great fires to be
						kindled at night, which sent weird lights through the dark forests,  and cast strange, fitful shadows under the trees; and here, in the excitement
						which Pontiac's speeches caused, the Indians held their horrible war-dances for weeks at
						a time, and dug up the hatchet which they had buried when at peace with nations, and
						vowed they would not bury it again antil the hated English were destroyed or driven from
						the country; and the squaws, catching the spirit of war, set to work sharpening knives,
						molding bullets and mixing war paints for the warriors to use in battle. Even the
						children caught the spirit of the times, and practiced with bows and arrows, and played
						at killing, scalping and burning English prisoners; and the young men ate raw flesh and
						drank hot blood to make them brave and courageous. A hundred wild and restless tribes
						united in the plans of one mighty chief, whose object was to kill, plunder and
						exterminate the people he hated.
					After stirring up the Indians to the highest excitement, Pontiac went to the French
						soldiers at the forts and settlements and demanded that they help him to destroy the
						English. From them he learned that the French had ceded all their territory east of the
						Mississippi River to Great Britain, and that they were waiting for the British soldiers
						to come and take possession of the forts and of the country.
					This made Pontiac and his friends very angry, and they determined to break away
						entirely from the Europeans and drive them from the country. He gathered his warriors
						together and they attacked a number of forts and trading-posts, and killed those in
						charge, or took them prisoners, just as they had planned to do. The time fixed for the
						general attack was June 1, 1763, and the plan was not to openly attack the forts, but to
						capture them by strategy, which  suited their savage
						natures much better than did open warfare. Pontiac had assigned the task of capturing
						each fort to certain tribes; every tribe knew its task and prepared to fulfill it.
						Pontiac himself was to attack Detroit, which was a post of great importance, then in
						command of Major Gladwin.
					Early in May, Pontiac, at the head of three hundred warriors, accompanied by their
						women and children, arrived at Detroit and camped near the fort. This did not excite the
						suspicion of the British, who had no hint of the dark plans of the savages. The fort was
						surrounded by three rows of pickets, or sharpened stakes driven close together in the
						ground, with strong block-houses built at each corner and at the gates. This enclosure
						contained about one acre and a half of ground. The fort was garrisoned by one hundred
						and thirty officers and men. When the time for attacking the fort arrived, Pontiac, in
						order to gain admittance, proposed to hold a council with Major Gladwin, telling him
						that the Indians wished to take their new father, the king of England, by the hand.
						Major Gladwin consented to this, and it was agreed that the council should be held
						within the fort the following day.
					Pontiac's plan was to enter the fort with a number of his warriors, armed with rifles
						that had been shortened so that they might conceal them under their blankets; at the
						proper time Pontiac was to give the signal and the Indians were to seize the fort and
						kill all the officers. They were then to open the gates and admit the other Indians, who
						were tc be given the pleasure of assisting in the slaughter of the soldiers and the
						destruction of the fort. This well formed plan came very near being successful, but we
						will see that the great chief was defeated in his wicked designs.
					
					It is said that an Indian woman to whom Major Gladwin had been kind betrayed the secret
						to him for the purpose of saving his life. Although Major Gladwin did not quite believe
						her story, he took care to put everything in readiness in case there should be an
						attack. The fort was strongly guarded during the night, lest the savages should conclude
						to make the attack earlier than the time appointed for the council.
					Although the lonely sentinels at the fort watched and listened all through the long,
						weary hours of the night, they heard nothing but the sound of wild music and dancing
						over in the Indian camp, where the savages were preparing for the bloody deeds of the
						morrow. The lights of their camp-fires glowed fitfully through the trees, and made the
						darkness more intense by the contrast. The stars looked pityingly down upon this wild
						scene, and by and by the moon arose in the east and sent long rays of silver light
						through the dark branches of the forest trees. All night long, the faithful sentinels
						kept watch over the little garrison; all night long, the shouts and songs and dancing
						continued and only ceased when the dawn appeared, and the warriors prepared for the
						savage delights which they believed were awaiting them.
					But Major Gladwin and his soldiers were not to be caught napping. The entire garrison
						was placed under arms, the guards strengthened, and the officers armed with swords and
						pistols. At the appointed hour, Pontiac and his warriors presented themselves at the
						entrance of the fort, and were admitted and taken to the council room. The chief, who
						saw at once that the soldiers were all armed, inquired of Major Gladwin the reason. The
						officer replied that it was  necessary to keep his young
						men busy, lest they become indolent.
					The council began; Pontiac addressed Major Gladwin in a bold, defiant manner. When he
						approached the moment that the signal for the attack was to be given, his speech and
						gestures became more and more threatening, and when he was on the point of making the
						signal, the drums of the British garrison beat "to arms," the guards leveled their guns,
						and the officers drew their swords. This was all so unexpected, and so surprised
						Pontiac, that he failed to give the signal for the attack. Major Gladwin then approached
						the chief; drew aside his blanket and disclosed the shortened rife. Reproaching him for
						his treachery, he ordered him from the fort.
					As soon as the Indians were outside of the fort, they gave a savage yell and fired upon
						it. Determined to gratify their thirst for blood, they went to the house of an old
						English woman and murdered her and her two sons. They then went to an island near by,
						and murdered the family of a discharged British officer. For several days they attempted
						to capture the fort; failing in this, they tried to destroy it by fire, and for months
						besieged it, killing and taking prisoners many who were sent to the relief of the
						garrison.
					The attacks on some of the other forts were more successful. Pontiac had assigned to
						the Sacs and Chippewa Indians the task of capturing Fort Mich-i-li-mack-i-nac, which
						stood between Lake Michigan and Lake Huron. On June the 4th, which was King George's
						birthday, the Indians who were in camp near the fort amused themselves by playing a game
						of bat and ball, which they called "bag-gat-i-wa." The game became interesting, and a
						number of the British  soldiers went out to watch it. In
						the excitement of the game, the ball was sometimes thrown over the stockade and fell
						inside the enclosure. At such times, the Indians were allowed to run after it; this
						occurred several times. Again the ball was thrown over the pickets, and this time the
						Indians rushed in and took possession of the fort. Seventy English officers and soldiers
						were killed and scalped, and the remainder of the garrison, about twenty in number, were
						taken prisoners.
					Lieutenant Jenkins was in command of Fort Ouiatanon, on the Wabash River. One day he
						was induced to go to one of the Indian huts, and while there he was captured and bound,
						as were several of his men. He was compelled to order his few remaining soldiers to
						surrender the fort. They were all held prisoners for some time, but were kindly treated.
						The Indians about Ouiatanon were friendly to the soldiers, but Pontiac had ordered them
						to capture the fort, and they dared not refuse. The entire British garrison at Miamis
						was massacred, and nine of the twelve forts situated between Lake Erie and Green Bay,
						and between Mackinaw and Ouiatanon, were captured within a few weeks.
					Besides capturing the British forts and trading-posts, the Indians attacked the
						frontier settlements, burned the houses, and massacred the inhabitants, or took them
						prisoners, to die a horrible death by torture. For many months the forests were red with
						the flames of burning homes, and the air was filled with the shrieks of tortured men,
						women and children.
					For months, Pontiac and his warriors controlled the Ohio valley. The British troops
						were not permitted to reach the  forts the French king had
						agreed to surrender, and the French officers were obliged to remain at their posts and
						await the time when they could give them into the hands of the English.
					Neylon de Villiers, who was in command at Fort Chartres, which you will remember was
						the seat of the military government of the Illinois district, grew weary of this dull
						task and ordered St. Ange, who still commanded Post Vincennes, to relieve him. This St.
						Ange prepared to do. He placed the fort in the hands of M. de Roiste de Richardville,
						acting captain of the militia, and Sieur le Camdre, a soldier of the troops. His parting
						advice to them was to maintain friendly feelings between the settlers and the Indians,
						and to prevent disorder. He instructed them, when complaints were made, to call the most
						influential inhabitants together and settle the matter by votes.
					After giving his parting blessing, St. Ange made his way across the prairies of
						Illinois and took command of Fort Chartres. What a weary time he must have had, waiting
						in that gloomy old fortress, which was said to be the most convenient and best built
						fort then in America, until the enemy of his country should come and possess it. He had
						difficulty in keeping the French and Indians quiet, however, for the savages insisted
						that the French should help them in their war against the English; but St. Ange, who was
						a brave and noble man, true to his king who had surrendered the country to the enemy,
						saw his duty as a soldier and a loyal subject, and determined to perform it
						faithfully.
					Pontiac, not to be turned from his purpose, went from post to post demanding
						assistance. He continued to wage war against the British, and although he succeeded in
						capturing  a number of forts and killing a great many
						people, he could not overcome the well-trained British troops sent against him. At last,
						seeing no hope of success, with many of their warriors slain, their villages destroyed,
						themselves on the point of starvation, a large number of Indian tribes sued for peace,
						which was finally concluded October 25, 1764. Pontiac took no part in the treaties of
						peace between the Indians and the English, although he finally agreed to war no more
						against the whites, and retired a disappointed man, to the Illinois country, where he
						was assassinated three years later.
					There is something pathetic in the fate of this great warrior, who, seeing the land of
						his fathers taken from his people, and determined to save it, used all his powers to
						drive away the enemy, and seeing his hopes blasted, his enemies victorious, himself
						forsaken by those he sought to serve, turned from the scenes of his early hopes and
						ambitions,--from the land and the people he loved, and quietly went away, with his sad,
						disappointing memories, to a strange country,--away from friends and kindred, to die by
						the assassin's knife.
					But there was one who was always kind to this misguided chief. St. Ange, after he
						surrendered Fort Chartres, re-retired to the village of St. Louis, which La Salle had
						established on the Illinois River, where he remained for several years. Here, as at
						Vincennes, he endeared himself to those about him, and when the warrior chief Pontiac
						fell by the cowardly hand of the assassin, St. Ange sent across the river for his body,
						and had it buried with honors, near the old fort at St. Louis; and here, five years
						later, St. Ange himself, like Pontiac, was buried in the little church-yard.
				

				

				
					CHAPTER V.

					Indiana becomes a part of Canada--The Revolutionary War.

					After the French king had given up his claim to the country east of the Mississippi
						River, and after the soldiers of the English king had overcome the Indian tribes and
						taken possession of all the forts and the great northwestern territory, the British
						government did little to have it settled. Indeed, it tried to prevent the emigrants from
						going to this part of the country, and that, for a very selfish reason.
					The colonists in North America were dependent upon England for many things they used,
						especially for manufactured articles and for tea and coffee, and the English feared that
						should they form settlements in portions of the country distance from the sea coast,
						they would soon find it necessary to manufacture such articles as they needed, for
						themselves, and so become independent of the mother country, cease to pay tribute to the
						crown, and perhaps set up a government of their own. This is exactly what the colonists
						did, and no amount of tyranny could keep them subject to the British government.
					The French settlements in Indiana, at Fort Wayne, Vincennes and Ouiatanon, were not
						disturbed, but after the French officers retired, were left pretty much to take care of
						themselves. In 1772, however, General Thomas Gage, commander-in-chief of all the king's
						forces in America, sent a proclamation in the name of George III, king of England,
						commanding all persons who had settled west of the Alleghany Mountains, to quit those
						countries, and join some of the English colonies in the East.
					
					When the French settlers at Vincennes received this order, they were very indignant,
						and refused to leave the homes they had occupied for so many years; so they replied to
						General Gage that they held "sacred titles" to their lands, which had been given them by
						Louis XIV, king of France, seventy years before. General Gage then demanded that they
						produce proof of their titles; but this was not an easy thing to do, for many of them,
						not realizing the value of their deeds, or titles, had thoughtlessly allowed them to
						become lost or destroyed.
					General Gage then went to England to procure authority to enforce his commands; but
						while the British king and his lords wished the Indian lands cleared of the white
						settlers, they would not compel them to leave their homes, and General Gage was obliged
						to return to America without having accomplished his object.
					About this time, England was having trouble with her colonies over on the Atlantic
						coast, which, being oppressed by the British government, by unjust laws and taxes, and
						by the tyranny of the British officers in America, were trying to break away from this
						unjust treatment. So England had enough to do without stirring up strife with the French
						settlers.
					For the purpose of gaining the good will of the Indians and of the French colonists in
						Canada, who complained that the best hunting grounds were denied them, and to secure
						their assistance in the war with the American colonists, the British Parliament, which
						is to England what Congress is to the United States, extended the boundaries of Canada
						to include the territory out of which the States of Indiana, Ohio, Illinois and Michigan
						were formed; and to further  secure their good will, the
						old French laws and customs were restored, and the inhabitants were allowed the
						privileges of the Catholic religion, which, by the way, was very different from that of
						the English people. By this act of the British Parliament, Indiana became a part of
						Canada.
					While this greatly pleased the French in Canada, it was very displeasing to the English
						colonists, who looked upon it as an act to gain the assistance of the French against
						them, and they were very free to express their displeasure. In Massachusetts, the
						colonists held a meeting and strongly condemned the action of the British, and
						recommended that the frontier towns be provided with officers and military supplies, in
						the fear that the new privileges given them might induce the French and Indians to make
						war upon the frontier settlements.
					This fear was not without cause, for as a result of this act of the English Parliament,
						the French colonists in America were strong supporters of Great Britain during the early
						part of the Revolutionary war, and they encouraged the Indians to attack the American
						settlements in their cruel and barbarous manner.
					The colonists then made war upon the Indians, and both the Americans and the savages
						were mercilessly murdered; nor did the women and children escape, for it is a cruel law
						of war that the innocent and helpless must also suffer, and many hundreds fell victims
						to this savage border-warfare.
					The Indian method of fighting was very unlike that of the white people. They would
						seldom come in force upon any place they wished to attack, but would scatter about
						singly, or in small numbers, and hide in the bushes, or 
						weeds, or behind trees, or stumps of trees, or along paths or fields where the people
						must go; or they would watch the springs where they must go for water, and shoot them
						from some place of concealment, and if they were not afraid to stay, they would take the
						scalps of their victims, or if they were only wounded, would bear them away as
						prisoners, and cruelly torture them, sometimes burn them alive, or cut them to pieces,
						and do many other horrible things before they finally killed them. Often they would bind
						their victins to a stake and pile a great quantity of wood and brush about them, and set
						it on fire; and then while the poor tortured creatures shrieked in agony, the Indians
						would dance and shout about them, and enjoy it all very much indeed. They would destroy
						their enemies' fields of corn and other grain, and leave them to suffer and starve.
					Cruel as these things were, the Indians believed that they had cause for it all. They
						saw the white people take from them their land and game and had no power to prevent it.
						They were often unjustly treated and inhumanly murdered by the whites. They saw their
						people driven farther and farther away, their families and villages destroyed, and were
						powerless to protect them. What wonder that a spirit of revenge should fill the breasts
						of these wild children of nature, who were no match for their crafty, and sometimes
						unscrupulous enemies, who were often almost as cruel as the savages themselves, and
						murdered them without mercy.
					It often happened that little children who were taken prisoners, were adopted by the
						Indians and brought up like their own children, to live the wild life of the savages. A
						story is told of a little girl who was stolen by ihe Indians and lived with them for
						many years. After a time, there  was a war with the Indians
						and many white prisoners were taken from them by a British general; among them was this
						child, now grown quite large. Her grandmother, hearing of this, went to the general's
						camp, hoping to find the long-lost granddaughter. She eagerly sought among the prisoners
						and at last was sure she had found her, but the girl had forgotten her own language, and
						refused to say a word, or make a sign. The old lady was greatly grieved, and bitterly
						complained that the child she had so often rocked in her arms and sung to sleep, should
						have forgotten her.
					"Sing," said the general, "sing the song you used to sing her." In a trembling voice
						the old woman began to sing. At the first tones the wild girl started,--listened awhile,
						and then burst into tears. Although her own language was forgotten, the old cradle song
						was remembered; it touched a tender cord in her heart and awakened long forgotten
						memories.
					After the failure of General Gage to force the French settlers to leave their homes and
						go to the settlements east of the Alleghany Mountains, Post Vincennes was left
						undisturbed until 1777. Then Lieutenant-Governor Abbott, with an escort of Canadian
						soldiers, arrived from Detroit and took command of the fort. He won the affections of
						the people by his kindness to the poor and by looking after the interests and welfare of
						the inhabitants, and it was with deep regret that they saw him depart a few months
						later.
					The war between Great Britain and the American colonies, which was called the
						Revolutionary war, ended in the recognition of the independence of the colonies by Great
						Britain, and the establishment of an independent government. This was the beginning of
						the United States government,  which, after having passed
						through many changes, is the same government under which we live.
					After the close of the Revolutionary war, Congress, with but little money, and the
						country greatly in debt, tried to protect the settlements on the borders of the Ohio,
						from the attacks of the savages. Forts and block-houses were built, and soldiers placed
						in charge of them, but they were unable to prevent many cruel murders from being
						committed by the Indians, who were encouraged in their merciless deeds by the British
						officers, who had been compelled to leave the country east of the Alleghany Mountains in
						the hands of the Americans, but still held possession of Detroit and Canada.
				

				
					CHAPTER VI.

					George Rogers Clark--His Conquest of the Northwestern
						Territory.

					Now having reached the period when the American colonies had broken away from the
						parent country, and set up a new government, and given themselves a new name, let's take
						a hasty glance backward over the history of Indiana.
					Probably a few white traders had visted the country before the year 1682, at which time
						La Salle explored the country, discovered the mouth of the Mississippi River and set up
						the standard of France, claiming all the territory drained by the Mississippi and its
						tributaries.
					Three French settlements had been formed within the State, two on the Wabash River and
						one at the present site of Fort Wayne. Then came the war between France and Great
						Britain, at the close of which all the territory east of 
						the Mississippi River, with the exception of New Orleans, was ceded to Great Britain,
						and Indiana passed from the possessions of the French to that of the English. Thus we
						have seen it ruled by the king of France and the king of England. While it yet remained
						a part of Louisiana, it was divided into the district of Illinois, and was afterward
						attached to the province of Canada. The war of the Revolution began. The colonists
						declared themselves free from Great Britain, and were forming a government for
						themselves. In order to gain the assistance of the French in Canada, in the war with her
						colonies, England extended the boundaries of Canada to include Indiana and other
						territory, and re-established the French laws and customs, and restored to the people
						the privilege of the Catholic religion. All this time the Indians held possession of the
						country, roamed through its forests and hunted along its streams. Such was the condition
						of Indiana when the American colonists declared themselves free from the English
						government and became an independent people.
					The British, still fearing that France would join the Americans and help them in this
						war, proposed to make peace with the colonists, and offered them everything they had
						asked for in the beginning; but it was too late. The Americans were determined to be
						free, and so the war went on. The power of the British was finally broken. The Eastern
						States were in the hands of the Americans, although the territory northwest of the Ohio
						River was still possessed by the British. They held the forts and strong points, which
						were guarded by British soldiers, and they had no intention of surrendering them to the
						Americans. Had no one disputed with them, doubtless the western boundary  of the United States would have been the Ohio River instead
						of the Mississippi, and Indiana might to-day have been under British rule.
					The officers at the British forts greatly annoyed the Americans by furnishing arms and
						ammunition to the Indians, and by sending them to attack the settlements in Kentucky and
						on the borders of the Ohio River. And so, while still at strife with the mother country,
						with but little money in the treasury, and her frontier settlements in danger of being
						destroyed by the savages, the young government was in a troubled condition.
					At this time Virginia claimed the territory west of the Alleghany Mountains, and many
						of the people who had settled in Kentucky and along the Ohio River, were from that
						State. The news that the Indians were attacking these settlements, destroying the homes,
						killing men, women and children, or bearing them away into captivity to be horribly
						tortured and killed, greatly distressed their friends in Virginia, who were powerless to
						give them asistance.
					About this time a young surveyor from Virginia made a journey through Kentucky,
						exploring and surveying the land. He was so pleased with the rich and beautiful country
						that he resolved to make it his home. The name of this young adventurer was George
						Rogers Clark, and to him more than to any other man, the United States is indebted for
						the accession of the vast territory out of which the States of Indiana, Illinois,
						Michigan and Wisconsin were formed.
					Clark was grieved at the suffering and danger to which the settlers on the frontier
						were exposed, and tried to discover some way to relieve them. He was then but
						twenty-five  years of age, but he formed a wise and daring
						plan that would have done credit to a much older head. He came to the conclusion that
						the only way to secure the safety of the settlements, was to lead an army of men against
						the British, capture the forts and take possession of the country from the Ohio River to
						the Mississippi and to the Northern Lakes. He was convinced that the British encouraged
						the Indians to attack the Americans, and that they furnished them with arms and
						ammunition, and rewarded them for their cruelty to the defenseless settlers. He believed
						that if the Americans could gain possession of the country by driving the British out,
						they could make peace with the Indians, or at least protect their settlements.
					This was a dangerous undertaking, but Clark resolved to attempt it. But first, it was
						necessary to secure the approval and assistance of the State of Virginia, for not only
						must he have men and arms, but he would need a great many other things before he was
						ready to enter upon so hazardous an enterprise.
					Although Kentucky was claimed by Virginia, and was subject to the laws of that State,
						her people were not represented in the State Legislature, and had no voice in making the
						laws that governed them; so Clark persuaded the settlers in Kentucky to hold a meeting
						for the purpose of forming some plan by which they could get the support and protection
						of the government of Virginia. At this meeting Gabriel Jones and George Rogers Clark
						were chosen to represent the Kentuckians, and to appear before the Virginia Legislature
						and make known the needs and desires of the settlers.
					They immediately started on their long journey to Williamsburg,  which was then the capital of Virginia. The country was little more than a
						wilderness; there were no roads, and they had to find the way as best they could through
						the woods and thickets, swimming across streams, sleeping under the open sky at night,
						with the bright stars looking down upon them, or, on rainy nights, finding shelter
						beneath the branches of the forest trees.
					With the greatest difficulty, and very tired and worn, they at last reached
						Williamsburg. Imagine their disappointment when they found that the Legislature had
						adjourned and the members gone to their homes. They had traveled weary miles and
						suffered many hardships without having accomplished their object.
					However, Clark was not discouraged. He went at once to Governor Patrick Henry, who was
						lying sick at his home, and told him of the condition of the settlers in Kentucky, and
						explained his plans for their protection. Governor Henry was pleased with all he said,
						and sent him to the Executive Council of the State. Clark presented the letter which the
						Governor had given him to the Council, and told them of the danger and suffering of the
						settlers,--that they were at the mercy of the savages, and requested that five hundred
						pounds of gunpowder be given them, with which to protect themselves.
					The Council sympathized with the settlers, but told Clark that they had no authority to
						furnish the powder at the expense of the State, which was perhaps true, and refused to
						let him have it unless he would agree to pay for it in case the Legislature failed to
						approve the act. This Clark refused to do. He replied that Virginia claimed the
						territory of Kentucky, which was rich and valuable; that the British  were in every way encouraging the Indians and furnishing
						them with ammunition with which to destroy the settlements on the frontier, and that
						they might at any time be exterminated for want of the means to defend themselves, and
						that, with the frontier settlements destroyed, there was nothing to prevent the Indians
						from attacking the settlements in Virginia, and the British front taking possession of
						the country east of the Ohio.
					The Council still refused to aid him, and Clark went away disappointed. He determined
						to make one more effort, however, before leaving the town. So he wrote a letter to the
						members of the Council, informing them that if they still refused to help him, he would
						apply elsewhere for assistance; at the same time telling them that a "country that was
						not worth defending was not worth claiming," and hinting that Kentucky might form
						herself into a separate State.
					Fearing that Clark might procure assistance from the State of North Carolina, which
						already claimed a portion of Kentucky, the Council sent for Clark and promised him that
						the powder should be sent, and ordered it shipped to Pittsburg for the use of the
						settlers in Kentucky.
					When the Virginia Legislature next met, Clark and Jones were present, and although they
						were not admitted as members, through their influence the territory now called the
						"State of Kentucky" was formed into the "County of Kentucky." By this act the people of
						the new county had a claim to the protection of Virginia. Well pleased with the result
						of their efforts, Clark and Jones at once started to Kentucky to carry the glad news to
						the settlers. On the way they stopped at Pittsburg to claim the gunpowder, which had not
						yet been delivered to the settlements.
					
					With a party of boatmen they started down the Ohio River with their precious freight,
						but had not gone far until they discovered that they were pursued by Indians, and
						fearing that the gunpowder might fall into the hands of the savages, they hid it in the
						woods and went on without it. They afterward sent for it, and the settlers were better
						able to protect themselves against the attacks of the Indians; but they were still in
						danger, and Clark did not abandon his plan to capture the British forts, prevent the
						Indians from receiving arms and ammunition, after which he believed they would be
						compelled to cease their hostilities and peace could be secured. So he went to the
						Governor of Virginia and told him his plan for capturing the forts, driving the British
						out of the country, and adding the territory northwest of the Ohio River to the State of
						Virginia. The Governor and his Council approved the plan, and provided money with which
						to meet the expense of the expedition which they proposed to send against the
						British.
					They believed it necessary to keep their real intentions a secret, for should it be
						made public, the British and Indians would hear of it, and be prepared to resist the
						Americans and probably defeat them. Besides, if it were known that Clark's purpose was
						to invade a wild and unknown country, possessed by a powerful enemy and invaded by wild
						tribes of hostile Indians, it would be very difficult, if not impossible, to induce men
						to enlist for so dangerous and uncertain an expedition. So Governor Henry wrote two sets
						of instructions for Colonel Clark; one authorized him to enlist seven companies of men,
						to act under his instructions, for the defense of the settlements in Kentucky; the other
						letter contained private instructions to lead his men against the  British forts. These were to be kept secret until he should see fit to make
						them known.
					Colonel Clark was greatly pleased, and at once began his efforts to secure men,
						assisted by Captain William Herrod, and by his two friends, Captain Bowman and Captain
						Helm. To encourage men to enlist, a reward of three hundred acres of land was promised
						each soldier, if the expedition was successful; but it was difficult to persuade men to
						leave their homes and families to defend a few settlements on the frontier, so Colonel
						Clark, who desired a force of five hundred men, was only able to secure about one
						hundred and fifty. He was disappointed, but not discouraged, and hoping that others
						would join him in Kentucky, he concluded to start with the force he already had.
					Late in May, 1778, with his little band of soldiers, a few adventurers and about twenty
						families who wished to make their homes in Kentucky, he started down the Ohio River and
						arrived at the Falls of the Ohio, near the end of the same month. Here he selected for a
						camping ground, a long, narrow strip of land in the Ohio River, called "Corn Island."
						The island was heavily timbered, with a dense undergrowth of cane, and the waters of the
						Ohio washed it on every side.
					Colonel Clark had grave reasons for selecting this bit of land, entirely surrounded by
						water. As yet his secret instructions from Governor Henry had not been made known to his
						soldiers, who believed that they were only going to defend the settlements in Kentucky,
						and he feared that they might desert him when he told them they were to attack the
						British forts northwest of the Ohio River. Here, on this island, cut off from the main
						land, he would be able  to prevent this. So he built a
						block-house in which he stored his provisions and ammunition, and divided the land among
						the families for gardens.
					Colonel Clark had hoped to receive re-enforcements from Kentucky, but was again
						disappointed, for only one company joined him. He determined to make the best of the
						situation, however, and began at once to train his troops. When all was ready, he read
						them his secret orders, and instructed them to be ready to start the following morning
						to invade the northwetern territory. Upon hearing this, many of his men, feeling that
						they had been deceived, and wrongfully treated, became dissatisfied and would have
						turned back but for the strong will of their leader. The Kentucky company determined to
						desert, and although the island was strongly guarded, the greater number of them passed
						the sentinels and escaped.
					On a bright morning in June, in the year 1778, Colonel Clark, with his little band of
						one hundred and fifty-three men, started on an expedition to invade and take possession
						of a country containing over two hundred thousand square miles of land. Taking with them
						such things as they needed, and leaving the families and a few men to guard the island,
						they started down the river. The sun was clear and bright; the birds sang and twittered
						among the branches of the trees which bordered the broad, beautiful river. The waters
						gleamed in the bright spring sunlight; the air was sweet with the perfume of flowers.
						All nature was at peace. As they glided down the stream, what thoughts of friends in
						far-away Virginia homes filled the minds of these men who were going to meet a
						treacherous foe in the trackless wilderness! Did they wonder if ever again they should
						return  to the little island, or be permitted to see their
						loved ones at home? But their brave leader gave them little time for sad thoughts. About
						nine o'clock, as they plunged through the rapids below the island, the sky suddenly
						became darkened, and the sun was obscured from view. This strange occurrence, which was
						nothing more than an eclipse of ths sun, made a deep impression on the minds of the men
						who had no previous knowledge of it, and who were just starting on what they knew to be
						a perilous journey.
					It was the purpose of Colonel Clark to capture Kaskaskia, which was the capital of the
						Illinois country, and was situated on the Kaskaskia River, about one mile from the
						Mississippi. He then intended to seize the smaller towns and forts around it, and
						afterward capture Vincennes, and probably Detroit. So he rowed down the Ohio with his
						little band of soldiers, to the mouth of the Tennessee River, which he reached after
						four days' travel, moving day and night. Here they landed on an island to prepare for
						the journey across the country. After leaving the island, they moved down the Ohio to
						within fifty or sixty miles of its mouth. Here they ran their boats up a little creek
						and hid them, for they could not spare men to guard them. After resting a few hours,
						they started on their journey across the unbroken country.
					It must be remembered that these men had no wagons, or horses to carry their baggage
						and ammunition, but each must bear his own burdens across the country for a distance of
						one hundred and twenty miles. On some parts of the journey game and water were scarce,
						and the men suffered from hunger and thirst. They were in constant danger of being seen
						and attacked by the Indians.
					
					The morning of the fourth of July, 1778, they came within three miles of Kaskaskia, but
						were on the opposite side of the river from the town. That night they found some boats,
						crossed the river silently in the dark, and stealthily marched to the town. Here Colonel
						Clark divided his men; he sent one company to surround the town, and with the other
						broke into the fort, captured the British officer, Mr. Rochblave, sent officers through
						the town to command the inhabitants to keep within their houses, under peralty of death,
						and before daylight had the town disarmed.
					The people of Kaskaskia, who had been told by the British that the Americans were worse
						than the savages, were very much alarmed, and begged that their lives might be spared,
						and some of them offered to become slaves to their captors, if they and their families
						were permitted to live.
					Colonel Clark at first treated the people with sternness, but allowed no harm to come
						to them. He established himself in the fort and waited to see what steps the inhabitants
						would take. Soon a committee of the leading men of influence in the town came to call
						upon him. They were much surprised at seeing the American officers, who, having traveled
						for days through a trackless wilderness, sleeping out of doors in all kinds of weather,
						were worn and weary, and their clothing tattered, torn and dirty. They looked very
						unlike the British officers they were accustomed to see attired in their gorgeous
						uniforms.
					Colonel Clark told the committee that he was sorry they had so bad an opinion of the
						Americans and their cause, and explained to them the nature of the dispute between the
						United States and Great Britain. He told them that, although  he had captured the town and fort, and held them prisoners, no harm should come to
						them, and if they attached themselves to the American government they should receive its
						protection. They were greatly relieved upon hearing this, and told Colonel Clark that
						they had never understood the quarrel between Great Britain and the colonies, and
						offered to unite with the Americans at once. Colonel Clark replied that they would be
						required to take the oath of allegiance to the State of Virginia, and gave them a few
						days to consider the matter among themselves. At the same time, he gave all, except a
						few particular persons, the privilege of leaving the country if they wished to do
						so.
					Among the men who met Colonel Clark was one who afterward rendered valuable service to
						the country, and of whom it has been said that, next to George Rogers Clark and Francis
						Vigo (of whom we shall have more to say), the United States is more indebted for the
						possession of the Northwestern Territory, than to any other man. This was M. Gibault, a
						Catholic priest of great influence among the French settlers, not only at Kaskaskia and
						the towns in the Illinois country, but also at Vincennes and other towns on the
						Wabash.
					Father Gibault requested that his people be permitted to assemble in the church, that
						they might confer together in their distressed condition. Colonel Clark consented to
						this, and assured the priest that he had no intention of interfering with their
						religious liberty, and by his wisdom and tact quite won him to the American cause. So
						the people all gathered together in the church, and Father Gibault and the other men who
						had gone with him to see the American  officers, talked to
						them and explained the things Colonel Clark had said to them, and quite removed the
						fears of the common people, who not only took the oath of allegiance to the State of
						Virginia, but many of them offered to join the Americans against the British.
				

				

				
					CHAPTER VII.

					Vincennes Surrendered--Retaken by the British--Captured by Colonel
						Clark.

					After the capture of Kaskaskia, Colonel Clark sent soldiers to capture the other towns
						and forts in the Illinois country and to make peace with the Indians. It was still his
						intention to capture Vincennes, or "Fort Gage," as the English called it. When Father
						Gibault learned of his purpose to capture the forts on the Wabash, he offered to go to
						Vincennes and win the inhabitants to the American cause without the use of arms. This
						pleased Colonel Clark very much, for he knew the priest had great influence among the
						French inhabitants on the Wabash, as well as at Kaskaskia, and he readily consented to
						the plan he proposed.
					Accompanied by his friend, Dr. Jean B. Lafont, who was also a man of influence among
						the French settlers, and taking with them a few men (among whom Colonel Clark sent a
						spy), Father Gibault started on his journey, and in due time reached Vincennes.
					After he had spent a few days explaining matters to the people, they agreed to the
						proposal he made them, and except a few friends of Governor Abbott--the British officer
							
						
							FORT SACKVILLE (VINCENNES)
							
								From English's "Conquest of the Northwestern
								Territory."
						
						
						 in charge of the fort, who was absent at the time--they
						went in a body to the church and solemnly took the oath of allegiance to the State of
						Virginia. They elected an officer to command the fort, took down the British flag, and
						soon the Stars and Stripes were floating over the fort, to the astonishment of the
						Indians, who had never before seen our beautiful banner. This was the first American
						flag ever displayed in Indiana.
					Soon everything was settled, and the inhabitants of Vincennes began to feel that they
						were citizens of the United States. They informed the Indians, who did not quite know
						what to make of all this, that their old father, the king of France, was come to life,
						and was mad with them for fighting for his enemies, the English, and they advised them
						to make peace with the Americans as soon as possible, or they might expect the "land to
						be very bloody."
					When the news of Father Gibault's success reached Colonel Clark, he sent his friend
						Captain Helm to command the fort, and appointed him Indian agent for the Wabash country.
						This was the first American officer placed in command in Indiana. He was afterward
						joined by a few American and Creole volunteer troops and friendly Indians. Captain Helm
						won the confidence of the French inhabitants at Vincennes, and was soon on friendly
						terms with the Indian tribes in the vicinity; but his friendship with the savages was
						disturbed by a British agent named Celeron, who was at a small fort in the vicinity of
						the Wea village, near the present city of LaFayette. Colonel Clark sent a company of
						soldiers from Kaskaskia to capture Celeron. They succeeded in taking the fort and in
						capturing about fifty prisoners, but the agent himself escaped.
					
					In the meantime, Colonel Clark was successful in capturing the towns and forts in the
						Illinois country, and in making friends with the Indians, who flocked to him in large
						numbers, to treat for peace and hear what the "Big Knife," as they called him, had to
						say. Some of these tribes came long distances, traveling as far as five hundred miles.
						They were not sincere in their professions of friendship, however, for soon afterward
						they tried to make Colonel Clark their prisoner, and had they succeeded, he would have
						doubtless have been tortured and killed. Many of the friendly Indians offered to join
						Clark's army, but he would not accept their offered assistance.
					While Colonel Clark was at Kaskaskia, making peace with the Indians and winning the
						friendship of the French settlers, Lieutenant-Governor Hamilton, who was in command of
						the British troops at Detroit, hearing of the capture of Vincennes and the towns on the
						Wabash and in the Illinois country, raised a company of five hundred men, composed of
						English, Canadians and Indians, and started for the Illinois country. He captured the
						spies which Colonel Clark had sent to watch the British, and on December 15th appeared
						without warning before the fort at Vincennes.
					Captain Helm, who commanded the fort, had only one man to assist him; but he stood
						bravely by his guns until Governor Hamilton agreed to treat him as a prisoner of war. He
						then surrendered the fort, and Vincennes again fell into the hands of the British. The
						Stars and Stripes were taken down, the British flag again floated on the breeze, and the
						name of the fort changed to "Sackville."
					Again the frontier settlements were at the mercy of the savages; again the shrieks of
						tortured men and women were  heard, and the nights made
						hideous with the fierce yells of the Indians, and the forests lighted with the flames of
						burning homes. A company of forty men was sent to capture Colonel Clark, but was
						unsuccessful. Colonel Clark soon heard of the capture of Vincennes by the British, and
						that Captain Helm was a prisoner at the fort, but could learn nothing more until January
						29th, when Francis Vigo arrived at Kaskaskia and gave him information concerning affairs
						at Vincennes.
					As Francis Vigo afterward became a man of influence in Indiana, and did much to wrest
						the northwestern territory from the hands of the British and attach it to the United
						States, it is well to pause here and learn something of the man to whom we are so
						greatly indebted. Clark, Vigo, Gibault, are names which should stand on the list of
						Indiana's honored men. Francis Vigo was a Spaniard by birth. In his youth he left his
						home and joined a Spanish regiment, with which he sailed for Havana and afterward for
						New Orleans. There he left the army and joined a company of traders whose headquarters
						were at St. Louis. In his travels through the Illinois country, he met Colonel Clark,
						and being in sympathy with the American cause, offered him his services. Here was the
						very man to send to Vincennes to learn and report the condition of affairs there, and
						his services were gladly accepted.
					In company with one servant, Vigo started on his errand, but was captured by the
						Indians, taken to Vincennes and delivered into the hands of Governor Hamilton, who
						suspected him of being a spy. Having no proof against him, however, he offered him his
						liberty if he would promise to do no injury to the British cause during the war with the
							 Americans. Vigo refused to make such promise, and was
						held a prisoner on parol--that is, he was allowed his freedom, but was required to
						report at Fort Sackville every day.
					Father Gibault, who was at Vincennes at this time, resolved to secure Vigo's release.
						He went to Governor Hamilton, in company with a number of citizens, and notified him
						that unless Vigo was released, no more supplies should be furnished him by the
						inhabitants of Vincennes. Knowing the influence of the priest, and being dependent upon
						the French settlers for provisions for the garrison, and wishing to retain their
						friendship, Governor Hamilton agreed to free his prisoner on condition that he should do
						nothing against the British interests on his way to St. Louis.
					Vigo promised, and taking with him two "voyageurs" (vwa ya-zhurz), or "woodmen," he
						embarked in a piroque and rowed rapidly down the Wabash River to the Ohio--down that
						stream to its mouth, then hastened up the Mississippi until he reached the village of
						St. Louis. He had kept his promise; he had done nothing on the way to injure the British
						cause. He was now at the end of his journey and free to do as he chose. Hurriedly
						changing his clothing and collecting a few needed articles, he again entered his boat,
						and rowed with the current back to Kaskaskia, to inform Colonel Clark of all that he had
						learned at Vincennes. The information was not very encouraging to Clark and his little
						band of soldiers. Lieutenant-Governor Hamilton held Fort Sackville with eighty
						well-trained men, and was well supplied with arms and ammunition. He had improved and
						strengthened the fort, and was liable to receive reinforcements any day. If allowed to
						remain until spring he would doubtless have a large force of soldiers and Indians,  and would probably march against Kaskaskia and the towns in
						the Illinois country.
					With his usual promptness and daring, Colonel Clark decided to attack Fort Sackville
						before this could be done, and immediately began his preparations. He bought a large
						Mississippi River boat, called the "Willing," which he mounted with eight large guns,
						loaded with artillery and provisions, and manned with forty-six men. Placing all in
						command of Lieutenant Rogers, he gave orders for him to force his way up the Wabash as
						far as the mouth of White River, and there await further instructions. The boat was much
						admired by the inhabitants of Kaskaskia, for, as Colonel Clark said, "No such thing had
						been seen in the country before."
					The "Willing" sailed on February 4th, and the following day Colonel Clark, with one
						hundred and thirty men, left Kaskaskia in charge of the militia, and started to march to
						Vincennes, a distance of one hundred and sixty miles.
					This journey across the unbroken prairies of Illinois was one of hardship and suffering
						to those brave soldiers and their gallant leader. It was in the middle of winter, and
						although not very cold, it rained almost continuously, and the prairies were very
						wet.
					In those early days, before the country had been drained, the ground became soaked with
						water during the rainy season, which, finding no outlet, stood in great ponds and lakes,
						sometimes covering miles and miles of land. Through this the troops were obliged to
						pass, oftentimes waist deep in water. The streams were swollen and almost impassable,
						and to add to their suffering, their food gave out, and weary, wet and hungry, they were
						obliged to travel on  through the pouring rain, finding no
						spot where they could rest or dry their clothing. On the morning of the 18th, after
						fourteen days of weary marching, the soldiers found themselves ten miles from Vincennes,
						but separated from it by a swollen river over which they must pass, while the most of
						the country which lay between them and the town was covered with water three feet or
						more in depth. The "Willing" was not expected for two or three days; they had no food
						and could not wait for her. What should they do? Men were sent to look for boats, but
						none could be found.
					For two days the troops remained in this condition. The men were discouraged and some
						of the French volunteers threatened to return. It needed the strong will of their leader
						to govern them at this trying time. To keep them occupied, Colonel Clark put them to
						work making canoes. That day, five Frenchmen came down the river in a boat and told
						Colonel Clark that his presence had not yet been discovered; that the people of
						Vincennes were friendly toward the Americans, and that two canoes were adrift in the
						river above.
					All this was encouraging. Men were sent after the boats, one of which they secured.
						That day one of the men killed a deer, which saved them from famishing. The next day
						they were all ferried across the river, and marched for three miles through water which
						in places was up to their necks. In the evening they camped on a little hill, but they
						were again without food, and half starving.
					The following day, they marched three miles further, still without food. That night the
						weather turned very cold, and the wet clothing of the men froze upon them; they almost
						perished from cold and hunger. They had still four  miles
						to travel through water up to their breasts, and covered with a thin coating of ice. How
						could they, in their weak and famished condition, make that dreaded four miles? Many of
						the men were on the point of turning back; but the courage of their leader never
						deserted him, and he left them no time to hesitate. He made them a short speech, urging
						them to keep up their courage, and pointing to a wood beyond a plain, told them that
						there lay the end of their journey, and without waiting for a reply, he plunged into the
						water, breaking the ice as he went.
					The men were encouraged by this act, and with a shout for their dauntless commander,
						followed him. Calling to Major Bowman, who was second in command, and Clark's most
						trusted friend, he instructed him to fall back with twenty-five men, and to shoot anyone
						who refused to follow. They reached the woods with great difficulty, but found no dry
						land. On they plunged through the water, stumbling over roots and fallen trees, the
						boats following the nearly exhausted men, and picking up those who could go no further.
						At last dry land was reached, and fires were kindled. Soon the wet and tired men were
						warm and dry. A boat containing some squaws and children was captured. In the boat were
						found some buffalo meat, corn, tallow, and some kettles. Food was quickly prepared, and
						the spirits of the men began to revive. Their long journey was nearly at an end. They
						were now fairly comfortable, and were able to take a hopeful view of the situation, and
						after resting a few hours, they were ready to attack Fort Sackville.
					Colonel Clark knew that with his small force of weak and exhausted men, it would be
						impossible to capture the fort unless he could first secure the inhabitants of the
						village, or  at least prevent them from assisting the
						British soldiers. So he caused a French settler to be captured and sent him to inform
						the people of Vincennes that his "army" was about to attack the fort, and that all who
						were friendly to the Americans must remain within their houses, and that those who were
						friendly to the English king must go to the fort and assist Governor Hamilton.
					This scheme was successful. The villagers were all favorable to the Americans, and
						believing that Colonel Clark was approaching with a large army, they kept to their
						houses. Just as it was growing dark, Colonel Clark marched his men over a high point of
						ground in such a manner as to make it appear that he had a much larger force than he
						really had. He then marched into the village, which immediately surrendered. Some of the
						citizens offered to join the soldiers, and an Indian chief called "The Tobacco" offered
						Colonel Clark a hundred warriors. The chief was treated with kindness, but his services
						were declined. The British soldiers were not informed of the approach of the Americans
						and had no warning of danger until fired upon. They resisted the attack, and all night
						long the firing continued. The next morning, Colonel Clark sent a messenger under a flag
						of truce, to Governor Hamilton, demanding the surrender of the fort, and threatening to
						show no mercy should he be obliged to take it by force.
					During the night the Americans had thrown entrenchments of earth across the street, and
						protected by this, they had every advantage over the enemy. Mr. Dunn, in his history of
						Indiana, says: "These frontiersmen were at that time the best marksmen known to the
						world, and at these  distances--from sixty to one hundred
						and twenty yards--a silver dollar was as large a target as they cared for. Whenever a
						port-hole was open a dozen bullets flew through it, playing such havoc with the gunners
						that the cannon could not be fired with effect, and causing them soon to be abandoned.
						Every crack at which a sign of life appeared was made a target. Several British soldiers
						fell with bullets through their eyes." The British became discouraged, and in the
						afternoon Governor Hamilton sent a flag of truce with a letter to Colonel Clark,
						suggesting that they cease firing for three days, and requesting him to meet the British
						officer at the gate of the fort to talk over the situation.
					Colonel Clark would agree to nothing but complete surrender, and replied that if
						Governor Hamilton wished to see him he would meet him at the village church. This he
						did. Colonel Clark took with him his friend Major Bowman; Governor Hamilton was
						accompanied by the British officer, Major Hay, and his American prisoner, Captain Helm.
						They held a council in the church, but could come to no agreement, for Couonel Clark
						would accept nothing but entire surrender, and to this Governor Hamilton would not
						consent. Captain Helm urged Colonel Clark to accept milder terms, but was informed that,
						being a prisoner, he had no right to speak in council. Governor Hamilton at once offered
						to release Captain Helm, but Clark would not permit him, and insisted that the prisoner
						must return to the fort until matters were settled. They then returned to their
						respective positions and began firing again.
					On the 25th of February, 1779, the fort was surrendered with all its stores and
						supplies, and the Brititsh officers and soldiers were held as prisoners. The following
						day, two  British officers and thirty-eight soldiers who
						were on the way to reinforce Governor Hamilton, with seven boat loads of provisions,
						were captured by the Americans. The next day the "Willing" arrived. The crew were much
						disappointed that they had no part in the capture of Fort Sackville. The British
						officers were sent to the Ohio Falls, and afterwards taken to Virginia, where all except
						Hamilton, Hay, and two others, were released on parol. These four were kept in prison
						for several months, but, on recommendation of General George Washington, they were
						finally released. The private soldiers were set at liberty on taking an oath that they
						would not again bear arms against the Americans. The Stars and Stripes again floated
						over Vincennes, never to be replaced by British colors.
					So ended the conquest of the Northwestern Territory, and all this vast country was
						added to the State of Virginia, and the western boundary of the United States fixed at
						the Mississippi River instead of the Ohio. The attacks on the settlements ceased for a
						time, and the Indians professed to be at peace with the Americans. The "Piankeshaw"
						Indians, when they found that it was not Colonel Clark's intention to drive them from
						their hunting-ground, presented him with the gift of a tract of land two and a half
						leagues square (seven and a half miles square) on the west side of the Ohio Falls.
					After the capture of the fort, Colonel Clark did not remain long at Vincennes. The
						garrison was placed in command of Captain Shelly, and the name changed to Fort Patrick
						Henry, in honor of the Governor of Virginia. Captain Helm was appointed superintendent
						of Indian affairs on the Wabash, and Colonel Clark sailed down the river on  board the "Willing," taking with him seventy of his men and
						the boats he had captured from the British. The waters were very high and in a few days
						the little fleet arrived at Kaskaskia, to the great joy of the friends who were
						anxiously waiting to receive them.
					Again we see a change in the government of the territory now called Indiana. From the
						possession of the British, it passed into that of the United States, and became a part
						of the State of Virginia, and was organized into the "County of Illinois."
					After the capture of Vincennes and the towns in the Illinois country, Colonel (now
						General) Clark turned his thoughts toward the capture of Detroit, but was disappointed
						in his efforts to secure reinforcements to his troops, and finally the plan was
						abandoned. Dividing his forces between Post Vincennes, Kaskaskia, Cohoka and the Ohio
						Falls, he took up his own quarters at the Falls, that he might watch over the affairs of
						the territory. After this, immigration to the territory northwest of the Ohio River
						rapidly increased. It is said that in the spring of 1780 three hundred large family
						boats arrived at the Falls of the Ohio.
					It is ever to be regretted that the men who were the instruments in securing to the
						United States this vast and valuable territory were never fully rewarded for their
						services. Clark, Vigo, and Gibault, the trio which stands out in bold relief in
						connection with the conquest and early settlement of the country lived to feel the
						ingratitude of their countrymen. Father Gibault parted from his property that the money
						might aid Clark in carrying on the expedition, and in holding possession of the country;
						Francis Vigo loaned him many thousand dollars for the same purpose,  and both believed, as did Clark, that the government of the United States and
						that of Virginia, would repay them, but they were disappointed in their expectations.
						Their just claims were not allowed until both had been reduced to poverty, and Francis
						Vigo had been in his grave many years before his claim was adjusted. Both men died very
						poor, and General Clark lived a disappointed man for many years at his home near the
						Falls of the Ohio.
				

				

				
					CHAPTER VIII.

					Indiana Becomes the Property of the United States--Indian Out-
						breaks--General Wayne.

					The Governor and people of Virginia were well pleased when they learned that all the
						British posts and towns in the Illinois country had been captured by Colonel Clark and
						his brave Virginia troops. It was an important conquest, and words of praise for Colonel
						Clark were spoken by every one. Governor Henry sent a letter to the Continental
						Congress, giving an account of the success of Colonel Clark's movements, and the
						Virginia Legislature adopted resolutions of thanks and approval, and passed a law
						organizing all the territory northwest of the Ohio into the County of Illinois. Under
						this law, Governor Patrick Henry appointed Colonel John Todd County Lieutenant of the
						Illinois, or, Commandant-in-Chief, as he was sometimes called, and gave him authority to
						appoint deputy commandants, militia officers and commissioners. He also had the power to
						pardon all offenders, except those guilty of murder  and
						treason; these were required to be brought before the Governor and General Assembly.
					So, Colonel John Todd became the first ruler over the new territory. HIe arrived at
						Kaskaskia in May, 1779, a few days after Clark's return from Vincennes. His first act
						was to order an election for the purpose of choosing officers for the territory. This
						was the first election held in Indiana and the country northwest of the Ohio. Colonel
						Clark was appointed General and given command of all the troops and the management of
						the military affairs in the Illinois County.
					In June, 1779, Colonel Todd visited Vincennes and established the first court in
						Indiana. It was composed of several magistrates, and Colonel J. M. P. Legras, who was
						commandant of the fort, was made president of the court. These officers held their
						positions until 1787, and their authority was unquestioned, until they assumed the power
						to give away large tracts of land to officers and citizens of the town, not forgetting
						to provide for themselves and for each other. Colonel Todd only remained in the Illinois
						country from May until the following winter. He was elected representative to the
						Virginia Legislature from the County of Kentucky, in the spring of 1780, and was killed
						in battle two years later.
					From the capture of the fort by the Virginia troops until the arrival of General
						Harmar, in 1787, the inhabitants of Vincennes and the other towns in Indiana, had a
						pretty hard time. All commerce was shut off between Detroit and the towns on the Wabash,
						while the Indians on the south, who were British allies, became foes to the Americans,
						and prevented trade from being carried on down the Mississippi  River. As a consequence, prices became very high; the cost of provisions was
						four or five times as much as formerly, and the merchants were accused of taking
						advantage of the situation by charging exorbitant prices and becoming rich off the
						misfortunes of the settlers, and many were obliged to move away on account of the hard
						times.
					To make matters worse for the settlers, the soldiers were removed from Vincennes in
						1780, and the Indians, losing their fear of the Americans, again became hostile and
						attacked the forts and settlements and did great damage. A number of expeditions were
						sent against them, but failed to stop their depredations.
					The winter of 1782 was one of great and terrible suffering on the western frontier.
						Many settlers were murdered or taken prisoners and their homes plundered and destroyed.
						Again expeditions were sent against the savages, and many Indian villages and fields of
						grain were destroyed, although the most of the Indians made their escape. During this
						winter a provisional treaty was concluded between the United States and Great Britain,
						which prevented the Indians from securing supplies and ammunition from the British, so
						they were obliged to cease their hostilities, and for three years there was quiet on the
						frontier, during which time the Americans offered peace to the Indians and tried to
						purchase land from them. Some of the tribes were quite willing to be friends and to sell
						some of their lands, but the greater number were determined to keep their territory
						northwest of the Ohio, and, fearing the Americans would take advantage of some of the
						weaker tribes, and secure their lands, they formed a confederacy, or band, called the
						Great Northwestern, or, Miami Confederacy, and made an 
						agreement that no land could be ceded to the Americans without the consent of all the
						tribes, and they determined to fight for their hunting-ground and to prevent any
						territory belonging to them from falling into the hands of the Americans. Indiana was
						the seat of this confederacy, and for ten years no settlements were allowed to form
						north of the Ohio River.
					You will remember that by the conquest of George Rogers Clark all the country lying
						north and west of the Ohio River, as far as the Mississippi River and the great lakes,
						became a part of the State of Virginia, and was called the County of Illinois, and that
						Indiana was a part of this county. The time was approaching when another change was to
						take place in the territory.
					The Virginia Legislature resolved, under certain conditions, to give the country
						Colonel Clark had taken from the British to the United States Government, and it sent an
						offer of this gift to the Continental Congress. The members of Congress agreed to accept
						the gift, and the Virginia Legislature passed an act authorizing their delegates in
						Congress to deed to the United States all that territory lying northwest of the Ohio
						River which was claimed by the State of Virginia. The Virginia delegates who made or
						executed this deed were Thomas Jefferson, Samuel Hardy, Arthur Lee and James Mlonroe.
						Two of these men, Thomas Jefferson and James Monroe, afterward became Presidents of the
						United States.
					One of the conditions which Virginia proposed, and to which Congress agreed, was that
						the territory should be divided and formed into States, and that each State should not
						be less than one hundred nor more than one hundred  and
						fifty miles square, or as near that extent as possible. Another condition was that the
						French settlers at Vincennes and Kaskaskia should have the titles to their lands
						confirmed, or made perfect, and that one hundred and fifty thousand acres of land should
						be given to Colonel Clark and his officers and men. This tract of land was laid off on
						the Ohio River near the "falls," and was called the "Illinois Grant," or "Clark's
						Grant."
					Although the territory then belonged to the United States, the Indians still claimed
						and possessed the greater part of the land, just as the farmer owns and possesses his
						land, which also forms a part of the United States. Before it could be settled it was
						necessary for the Americans either to drive the savages out of the country and rob them
						of their land or to purchase it of them.
					The government resolved to take the honorable course and purchase the land in as large
						quantities as possible, and as rapidly as the territory was secured to encourage
						emigrants to settle upon it. They had difficulty in doing this, however, for the Indians
						refused to part from their hunting-grounds which had been the home of their tribes for
						no one knows how long; so, in the month of August, 1785, they called a grand council of
						all the Indian tribes at Ouiatanon, on the Wabash, for the purpose of forming a plan by
						which they could prevent the Americans from settling north of the Ohio River. The
						Indians gathered in large numbers from all parts of the great northwestern territory.
						There were many hundreds of them, and they came hundreds of miles through the forests
						and across the prairies, to be present at this council, or convention, as we would now
						call it.
					The chiefs and leading men of the tribes made long 
						speeches, in which they told the Indians how the white men were trying to rob them of
						their land and game, and kill or drive them from the country their fathers had claimed
						so long. They painted their faces, and decked themselves in their wild fashion, and held
						their hideous war dances, and so excited the savages and aroused their passion for blood
						and murder that they were ready to make war on the Americans at once, and were eager to
						plunder, torture, and kill them.
					The Indians really had cause for alarm, for the white men had been very unjust to them,
						and in some cases had been almost as cruel as the savages themselves and had killed and
						robbed them without mercy. So all these things were talked over at this council meeting,
						and the great men decided that they would go to war against the Americans, and kill or
						drive them from the country. The other Indians were eager to follow their leaders, and
						flourished their tomahawks in a terrible manner and threatened to kill all the white
						people they could find. Then the chief men notified the French settlers at Vincennes and
						the other towns on the Wabash that they must leave the country, for war was to be made
						against the Americans and that all who remained would be treated as enemies.
					The Indians returned to their homes to get ready for war. The following winter they
						began their bloody work. Several settlers were killed, and in the spring a number of
						traders were attacked. At Vincennes the American farmers were attacked and their homes
						destroyed. This so alarmed the settlers that many of them fled to Kentucky; others were
						killed, and others moved into the fort for protection.
					Matters grew from bad to worse; no one was safe for an 
						hour; so the next year a strong force of men was sent from Kentucky to protect the
						settlers. The plan was to attack all the principal Indian towns at the same time,
						destroy them and kill or drive the inhabitants away.
					General Clark, at the head of a thousand men, marched from the Falls of the Ohio toward
						Vincennes, but, unfortunately, he was suffering from what he felt to be an injustice by
						the government and had taken to drink, and so lost the confidence of his men; he was
						unable to control them as he had done on that terrible march from Kaskaskia; many of
						them deserted him, and the expedition had to be abandoned. Another force, which was sent
						out at the same time under Captain Logan, was more successful. At Vincennes a council
						was held by the officers belonging to Clark's expedition, and the fort was again
						garrisoned by two hundred and fifty infantry and a company of artillery under Captain
						Thomas Dalton.
					On October 5, 1787, the Continental Congress elected Arthur St. Clair Governor of the
						Northwestern Territory and instructed him to secure peace, as far as possible, between
						the United States and the Indian tribes occupying the country, and to regulate the
						trade, secure all the land he could from the Indians, gain the friendship of the chief
						men of the tribes, prevent them from combining against the Americans and to secure the
						good will of the settlers. As yet no States had been formed, and all the territory which
						now composes the States of Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin and a part of Ohio and
						Minnesota was called the "Northwestern Territory."
					The first act of Governor St. Clair was to organize a government for the new territory.
						In July, 1788, he went to  Marietta, Ohio, and with the
						assistance of the judges of the general court of the Territory, he published a number of
						laws for the government of the people. The most of these laws related to the
						establishment and holding of courts in the Territory. It was more than a year before he
						visited the Illinois country to organize a government there.
					After the conquest of the Northwestern Territory the settlers along the Wabash River
						suffered great misfortunes. They had parted with everything they could spare to aid
						Colonel Clark and to furnish provisions for his troops, taking certificates from him,
						which the State of Virginia had refused to pay. For three years in succession their
						crops were destroyed by floods, and one year by untimely frosts. Their trade with the
						Indians had been broken off, and the settlers had become very poor, and some of them
						were on the point of starvation. They were further troubled by an order from the
						government to have the land claimed by the French inhabitants surveyed, at the expense
						of the owners, for the purpose of establishing their claims. This they were too poor to
						do. Our old friend, Father Gibault, who was still their adviser, wrote a pathetic letter
						to Governor St. Clair, in which he told him of the miserable condition of the settlers;
						that they were scarcely able to sustain their pitiful existence, and should not be
						required to pay the expernse of a survey, for which they could see no necessity.
					In the hope of making peace with the Indians, Governor St. Clair wrote letters to the
						different tribes, and Major John F. Hamtranck, who was commandant at Fort Vincennes,
						sent Antonie Gamlin to deliver them. Gamlin started from Vincennes, April 5, 1790, and
						visited the tribes of the Piankeshaws, Kickapoos, Ouiatanons, Delawares,  Shawnees, Pottawattomies, Miamis and Weas. The speeches he
						read to them were listened to with interest, but each tribe told him they could do
						nothing without the consent of all the other tribes, on account of the confederacy they
						had formed.
					Gamlin traveled from tribe to tribe, making speeches and trying to secure peace between
						them and the Americans, but the reply was always the same; each tribe must consult the
						others before they could give him an answer. They requested him to go to Detroit, which
						was the capital of the confederacy, but he refused to go, and they promised that in
						"thirty nights" a young man should be sent from each tribe to inform him of their
						decision.
					He had scarcely left them, however, when some of these tribes went to war against the
						Americans; one man was captured and burned alive at the Miami village. When thirty
						nights had passed, the young Indian men, one from each tribe, came, as they had
						promised, and told Gamlin that there could be no peace between them and the
						Americans.
					When Governor St. Clair received notice that the Indians refused to treat for peace,
						that they were determined to go to war, and that there was no hope of securing the
						safety of the settlers on the frontier, he determined to go to Fort Washington to
						consult General Harmar about sending a strong expedition against the Indians. Leaving
						his secretary, Winthrop Sargant, to perform the duties of Governor during his absence,
						he started on his journey. It took him more than a month to travel from Kaskaskia to
						Fort Washington, which was situated where the city of Cincinnati now stands. Arriving at
						Fort Washington, he had a long conference with General Harmar, who decided to send a
						strong force of men against the Indians.
					
					George Washington, who was then President of the United States, gave General Harmar
						authority to call one thousand militiamen from the State of Virginia and five hundred
						from Pennsylvania, which he at once did, himself leading the expedition. He succeeded in
						destroying many Indian villages, and severely punished the savages for their cruelty,
						but failed to compel them to sue for peace, as the President expected him to do; nor did
						he greatly relieve the suffering of the settlers along the Ohio River.
					Other expeditions followed this, and many towns and villages were destroyed, and many
						Indians were killed and taken prisoners, but still they were not conquered. They were
						fighting for their homes and the land of their fathers, which they believed to be
						rightfully theirs, and which they also believed the Americans were trying to take from
						them; and they were fighting for their race, which they believed the whites were trying
						to destroy. Other nations have fought for their homes, their families and their
						liberties, and been extolled for the act. The Indians were doing no less, but the
						struggle was an unequal one.
					Governor St. Clair collected a large force of men for the purpose of establishing a
						strong military post on the Wabash near the Miami village. He reached this place on
						November 23d with about fourteen hundred men. The next day they were attacked by the
						Indians, and the troops being untrained, he was defeated with great loss of life.
						Thirty-nine officers and five hundred and ninety-three men were killed and taken
						prisoners. Twenty-two officers and two hundred and forty-two men were wounded. Those who
						were captured were treated with the utmost cruelty by the savages; their limbs were torn
						from their bodies and they were otherwise horribly tortured.
					
					After this defeat Governor St. Clair resigned his office of Major General, and Anthony
						Wayne was appointed to command the troops in the Northwestern Territory. With him were
						associated General James Wilkinson, who afterward succeeded him, and General Thomas
						Posey, who became Governor of Indiana Territory. Both were officers in the Revolutionary
						war, and were men of military reputation. From the early part of the year 1792 to
						August, 1793, General Wayne was busy recruiting, organizing and training his army.
					All this time the United States Government was trying to procure treaties of peace and
						friendship with the Indians, by sending messengers to assure them that the government
						had no intention of robbing them and would take no lands for which the Indians had not
						been well paid, or had not by fair treaty ceded to the United States. But the Indians
						did not believe this and captured and killed some of the messengers sent to them. This
						condition of affairs continued until August, 1794, when the Indians were finally
						overcome by the large force under General Wayne.
					On the 26th of July, 1793, General Scott, with a force of mounted Kentucky volunteers,
						joined General Wayne at Fort Greenville, Ohio, where he had assembled his troops. Two
						days later the entire force marched toward the Indian towns on the Maumee River. Near
						the present city of Maumee, Ohio, stood the Fort Miami, which, although within the
						limits of the United States, was still in the hands of the British soldiers. Here,
						almost within reach of the British guns, a battle was fought between the Indians and the
						united forces of General Scott and General Wayne, in which the Americans gained a
						complete victory over the savages.
					
					These two battles were fought within the present State of Ohio, but it required one
						more battle to destroy the Indian confederacy and gain a final victory over them. This
						decisive battle, one of the most important in Indian warfare, was fought on Indiana
						soil.
					On taking command of the United States troops, General Wayne at once saw the necessity
						of erecting a fortification which would command the portage, or high ridge of land, that
						separates the Maumee and Wabash Rivers, and so prevent all communication between the
						Indian tribes on the east and those on the west. If this could be done, the Indian
						confederacy could be easily destroyed and a final victory obtained. With this purpose in
						view, on the 14th of September, General Wayne moved his army toward Ke-ki-on-ga, the
						deserted Miami village which stood where the rivers St. Mary and St. Joseph unite. Here
						he caused a fort to be built and strongly garrisoned, and placed it in command of
						Colonel John F. Hamtranck, who gave it the name of Fort Wayne. Here, on August 20, 1794,
						the final battle was fought which broke the power of the Miami confederacy. "Little
						Turtle," the chief of the Miami tribes, advised his people to make peace with the
						Americans, but the savages had been victorious over Generals St. Clair and Harmar and
						believed they could defeat General Wayne; but in this they were mistaken. They were no
						match for the well trained troops of General Wayne, who gained a complete victory over
						them. The power of the Indian confederacy was destroyed by this battle, and a final
						treaty of peace was concluded at Greenville, Ohio, August 3, 1795.
					At this grand council articles of agreement were signed, fixing the boundary lines of
						the Indian lands. The United  States agreed to pay for
						certain lands ceded by the Indians and also to pay to them certain yearly sums, called
						annuities. This agreement was signed by the Chippewas, Ottawas, Pottawattomies, Weas,
						Wyandottes, Delawares, Shawnees and Kickapoos. The treaty was satisfactory to the United
						States Government and to all the other Indian tribes occupying the territory.
					After this defeat, Little Turtle gathered his people together and returned with them to
						the country on the upper Wabash, where he spent the rest of his life trying to save them
						from the influence of bad white men. He saw the effects of intemperance upon the
						Indians, and, calling his people together, talked to them of the evils of "fire water,"
						and proposed to them that they should all promise to drink no more of it. The Indians
						agreed to this, and they all gave Little Turtle a pledge, which, with few exceptions,
						they faithfully kept. So, to the Indian chief, Little Turtle, belongs the honor of
						forming the first temperance society in Indiana.
					After the treaty of peace was signed between the Indians and the United States, the
						efforts of the government were directed toward civilizing the savages in this part of
						the country. This, however, was a difficult undertaking; but few of them could be
						induced to cultivate the land, or work in shops, or perform any kind of manual labor.
						They disliked work of all kinds and refused to live by any means except hunting. For
						this reason the Indian race, has been doomed to pass from the face 'of rthe earth, like
						the game which they hunted and the forests through which they roamed.
					This is natural, and it is right that this vast territory 
						should be made the homes of thousands of industrious, law-abiding people. It has been
						said that territory large enough to support a thousand Indians by hunting will furnish
						homes for hundreds of thousands of white men, and doubtless this is true.
				

				

				
					CHAPTER IX.

					The First Laws of Indiana--A Territorial Legislature
						Organized--Vincennes.

					You will remember that when Governor St. Clair left the County of the Illinois to go to
						Fort Washington to consult General Harmar concerning the wisdom of sending an expedition
						against the Indians, he left the affairs of the Territory in the hands of the
						Territorial Secretary, Winthrop Sargant, who acted as Governor during his absence. Under
						instructions from Governor St. Clair, he went to Vincennes and laid out the County of
						Knox, organized the militia, and appointed civil and military officers. This was the
						first county organized in the State of Indiana. It originally embraced about one-third
						of the State on the west. It has, from time to time, been divided, and out of it thirty
						of the present counties of Indiana have been organized.
					In 1791 Congress gave the Governor of the Territory the power to confirm the titles to
						land to such persons as had received grants from the French king and the early officers
						of the Territory, who had actually improved and cultivated the land they held, allowing
						not more than four hundred acres to any one person.
					
					That summer acting Governor Sargant and the two judges of the Territory, John Cleves
						Symms and George Turner, published the three first laws of Indiana. One of them was to
						prevent the selling of intoxicating drinks to the Indians, another was to regulate the
						sale of liquors to the soldiers and to prevent them from selling their arms, ammunition
						and clothing; the other law was to suppress gambling.
					During the years 1790 to 1792 a number of laws were adopted, and published at
						Cincinnati, for the government of the entire Territory. The majority of these laws
						related to the establishment of courts, punishment of crime, and provided for the
						appointment of officers. One of these laws directed that a court house, jail, pillory,
						stocks and whipping-post should be built in every county; another declared that "persons
						assisting in the escape of prisoners should be punished by fine, imprisonment, whipping,
						by the pillory, or sitting on the gallows with a rope around his or her neck." What
						strange old laws these were, and how barbarous they would seem if practiced now; but
						those were rough times on the frontier, and many rough and lawless people had come to
						the new Territory who could only be governed by stern laws, suited to their rugged
						surroundings. As the country developed the character of the people changed, and it
						became necessary to change the laws which governed them, and, while we still have jails
						and prisons, we never hear of pillory and whipping-post.
					For some time the United States had been having trouble with Spain, concerning the
						navigation of the Mississippi River. You will remember that France had secretly ceded to
						Spain all her territory west of the Mississippi, before the  Northwestern Territory was ceded to Great Britain. The Spaniards not only claimed
						this territory, but denied that the Mississippi River was the boundary line between the
						United States and the Spanish possessions, and claimed the right to control its
						navigation, and forbade the Americans from passing down the river with their
						merchandise.
					This was a serious matter to the settlers and traders of the Northwestern Territory.
						They must have a market for their produce, and the Mississippi River was the natural
						outlet of the Ohio Valley. In those early days, before the time of railroads, when even
						the best wagon roads were but openings through the forests, it was practically
						impossible to transport produce across the country to the markets east of the Alleghany
						Mountains. With the navigation of the Mississippi denied them, the settlers were shut
						off from the markets of the world.
					This and other national questions came near plunging the country into war with Spain
						and France, but it was wisely averted, and a treaty of peace was finally concluded on
						March 3, 1796. By this agreement, the boundary line was fixed at the Mississippi River
						and navigation again opened, but not until an attempt had been made to separate the
						territory northwest of the Ohio from the United States and either unite it with Spain or
						form a separate government.
					At this time the British troops had been withdrawn from all the territory belonging to
						the United States; George Washington was President, and the new country was rapidly
						settling into a permanent and well-defined government.
					In the year 1800, by a secret treaty with Napoleon Bonaparte, Spain restored to France
						the territory called Louisiana.  This territory included
						all the land from the Mississippi River to the Rocky Mountains, and from the Gulf of
						Mexico to British America. Three years later Napoleon sold land ceded Louisiana to the
						United States for the sum of $15,000,000. The following year a portion of Louisiana was
						attached to the Northwestern Territory, but was soon afterward formed into a separate
						territory.
					On June 26, 1796, William Henry Harrison was appointed Secretary of the Territory, to
						fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of Winthrop Sargant, who was appointed
						Governor of the Territory of Mississippi. From the time Arthur St. Clair was appointed
						Governor the laws which were to govern the people of the Territory were made by the
						Territorial Governor and judges, but the time had now come when the people themselves
						were to have a voice in making the laws which were to govern them.
					Governor St. Clair ordered an election to be held by the "qualified voters" of the
						Territory, for the purpose of electing Representatives to a General Assembly, which he
						ordered to meet at Cincinnati, January 22, 1799. According to this order, elections were
						held in the different counties in the Territory. As yet, Knox was the only county
						organized within the present State of Indiana; indeed, no other counties were organized
						until 1802.
					The Representatives chosen at this election met at the time and place designated by the
						Governor. The first act of this assembly was to select ten men, a list of whose names
						was sent to the President of the United States, from which to choose a Legislative
						Council. John Adams was then President, and from this list he selected Jacob Burnet,
						James Findlay, Henry Vanderburgh, Robert Olliver and  David
						Vance to be the first Iegislative Council of the Northwestern Territory. These names
						were sent to Congress with President Adams's recommendation, and were confirmed by the
						United States Senate March 3, 1799.
					After submitting the names selected to the President, the representatives adjourned to
						meet again in September. The two houses of the Territorial Legislature were organized on
						the 24th of that month. The council selected by the President formed the highest branch
						of the Legislature and corresponded to the Senate of to-day. Henry Vanderburgh was
						elected President of the first Legislative Council, and William C. Schenk Secretary.
					On the 25th of September Governor St. Clair delivered his first address to the
						Territorial Legislature. After calling attention to various important subjects, he told
						the representatives that it was necessary for the lives and morals of the present and
						future generations that they should enact wise and just laws. Standing before that
						little body of twenty-four men, selected to make the laws which were to govern the
						people of the Territory out of which great States were to be formed, he looked into the
						future and saw that the happiness of millions of people depended upon their wisdom and
						integrity, and he pledged them his own aid and support in every good undertaking.
					The organization of the Territorial Legislature entitled the people to a delegate to
						Congress, and at this session the names of William Henry Harrison and Arthur St. Clair,
						a son of the Governor, were proposed as candidates. An election was held, at which
						Harrison received eleven votes and St. Clair ten. By this small majority William Henry
						Harrison became the first delegate to Congress from the Northwestern Territory."
					
					This session of the Legislature continued until December 19th, and during the time
						thirty-seven acts were passed. Some of them were to regulate the courts and the practice
						of attorneys, to regulate inclosures, to fix the legal interest on money, to establish
						taxes and regulate the fees and salaries of officers and representatives. Some were to
						prevent trespass, to create offices for Territorial government, to prevent the sale of
						intoxicating liquors to the Indians, and to prevent the firing of woods and prairies.
						Others were to relieve poor persons imprisoned for debt, to provide for the punishment
						of crime, to prevent vice, to regulate public roads and highways, and to encourage the
						killing of wolves.
					The last seems a curious law, looked at from a distance of a hundred years, but then
						the country was still a wilderness, infested by wild animals of every description native
						to the country. Wolves were one great pest; not only did they endanger human life, but
						they destroyed stock as well. To rid the country of them, the government paid a sum of
						money for the scalp of every wolf killed.
					And now the territory northwest of the Ohio was approaching the time when another
						change was to take place in its government. On the 7th day of May, 1800, the President
						of the United States (Mr. Adams) approved an act of Congress to divide the Territory
						into two separate governments.
					It is well to pause here and look at the condition of the country and the people before
						this change is made. At that time there was no Indiana. The country which we now proudly
						call by that name was still a part of the great Northwestern Territory, which was one
						division of the United States. The few small settlements made by the French and  Canadians on the Wabash River and at Fort Wayne still
						existed, but we have seen that they had a pretty hard time to live after the trade was
						broken off between them and the British on the north and the Indians on the Wabash and
						the Ohio Rivers.
					But now the British had retired to their own territory and peace had been secured with
						the Indians. Thousands of immigrants had come into the new Territory after the treaty at
						Greenville, but the little settlements they formed, the few acres they cleared, scarcely
						made a beginning in the great wilderness of forests and prairies which made up the
						Northwestern Territory.
					At the final treaty with the Indians at Greenville, Ohio, in 1795, the boundary lines
						which were then established gave the Indians all the territory lying within the present
						limits of the State of Indiana, except a tract of land six miles square, where the city
						of Fort Wayne, now stands; another two miles square, lying about eight miles west of
						Fort Wayne; a tract of land six miles square at Ouiatanon, on the Wabash, southwest of
						LaFayette; one hundred and fifty thousand acres near the Ohio Falls, called the
						"Illinois" or "Clark's Grant;" the town of Vincennes and the land near it, to which the
						Indian titles had been extinguished, and a strip of land in the southeastern part of the
						State, out of which the present counties of Switzerland, Ohio, Dearborn, and a part of
						Franklin, Union, Wayne, Randolph and Jay were formed. All the rest of the State of
						Indiana belonged to the Indians and was occupied by them.
					Within these tracts settlers built their cabins, cleared a few acres of ground, planted
						their grain and gathered their crops. In every direction from their little farms
						stretched  miles and miles of forests, still inhabited by
						the red men and infested by wild animals--wolves, panthers, bears, wild-cats and
						deer--while in the western part of the State great herds of buffalo were to be found,
						and the dark forests were filled with birds, insects and reptiles.
					After this treaty of peace, trade was again opened between the settlers and the
						Indians, and carried on by merchants and traders at Fort Wayne, Vincennes and other
						small trading points on the Wabash and other streams. The rivers were the roadways of
						the country, and for many years took the place of the railroads and highways of the
						present time. Their navigation has since been greatly impaired by cutting the timber
						from the land and by under-drainage, which has taken the moisture from the ground and
						dried up the springs and many of the smaller streams.
					The business of the country was very different from that of to-day. The merchants would
						build log houses, which they called trading-posts; here they would bring such goods as
						the Indians and settlers wanted, and trade them--not for money--there was very little of
						that to be had--but for the furs and skins of wild animals. The skins were dried,
						compressed and made into secure packs, weighing about one hundred pounds. After the
						merchant, or trader, had collected as many as he could manage, he placed them in boats,
						or pirogues, that would carry about fifty of these packs, and shipped them to some large
						town, either on the lakes or down the Ohio and Mississippi Rivers.
					Detroit was an important shipping point, and much of this kind of merchandise was sent
						there from this territory. It took four men to manage one of these boats, and when the
						streams were in good condition they could travel fifteen 
						or twenty miles in a day, moving against the current. These men would ascend the Wabash
						River and the Little Wabash to the "portage;" here the boats were unloaded, and the men
						would carry the packs across the portage to the headwaters of the Maumee River, where
						they were again placed in pirogues, or keel-boats, and taken to Detroit. Here the furs
						and skins were exchanged for blankets, guns, knives, powder, bullets, and not
						unfrequently for intoxicating liquors and such other articles as the settlers and
						Indians wished. With his new supply of merchandise the trader returned to his post and
						resumed business.
					On December 15, 1796, General Anthony Wayne died, and General James Wilkinson was given
						command of the northwestern troops. A small force was stationed at Fort Wayne and
						another at Vincennes, which was then called Fort Knox. This force was in command of
						Captain Thomas Pasteur. Two years later the command was given to Captain Robert Buntin.
						In the year 1795 a few families settled in Dearborn County, where the town of
						Lawrenceburg now stands, and another settlement was formed in Clark County, on the Ohio
						River.
					So closely is Vincennes connected with the history of Indiana that it is interesting to
						study the condition of the town and its inhabitants at the beginning of the nineteenth
						century.
					A noted historian who visited Vincennes in the summer of 1796 stated that at that time
						there were about fifty houses built about the old fort. Each house was surrounded by a
						fence built of poles, and inside of many of these inclosures were gardens in which peach
						and apple trees grew, and a variety of vegetables were cultivated. Fields of corn,  wheat, barley, tobacco and cotton grew outside the village.
						Near the river was an inclosure surrounded by wide, sharp stakes, six feet high, and
						this was again surrounded by a deep ditch eight feet wide. This was called the fort.
					The society of the little community was a mixture of civil and military character. The
						white people were French, the remainder were Indians. They lived in peace with each
						other, and many of the French married Indians and adopted some of their manners and
						customs. The people were kind and neighborly and hospitable to strangers, but they were
						indolent and without enterprise; they were as idle as the Indians themselves.
					The men roamed through the forests, or glided down the streams in their canoes, fishing
						and hunting a little, but they laid up no provisions for the winter, or for a "rainy
						day." The women were as idle as the men. They were a happy, careless people, and gave no
						thought to the future. Few of them could either read or write; they had no knowledge of
						arithmetic, and had no use for books, but read their lessons from their great book of
						nature, whose pages are always open to those who seek her truths.
					There were no courts in this little community. The commandant at the fort was attorney,
						judge and jury, and his decisions were final. When a party complained that his neighbor
						had done himn a wrong, the commandant notified the offender that he must make amends for
						injustice done his neighbor. If he did not do so, he was summoned to answer to the
						complaint. If he failed to appear, an officer was sent to bring him, and he was fined
						and kept in prison until he was willing to do justice to his adversary.
					The priests exercised the same power over the spiritual 
						affairs of the people that the commandant did over the temporal. From these powers there
						was no appeal. None was desired. The people were contented and happy to live their
						care-free lives. Why should they trouble themselves about government, and such trifling
						matters? It was easy to procure the necessities of life, and they knew nothing of
						luxuries. A shot from the rifle brought down game, for their dinners. The streams were
						full of fish. They raised a little corn and fruit and a few vegetables; with these, and
						the wild honey they found in the forest, they lived like kings. Much of their clothing
						was made from the skins of animals; the remainder they bought from the traders. They had
						no use for money. The skins of animals were their standard of value. An article was
						worth--not so many dollars and cents, but so many pelts.
					And so these careless people lived their happy, idle lives, with no knowledge of the
						events that were taking place in the world outside their own little community. They did
						not hear the tread of the steady foot of progress that was soon to wake up their little
						colony and make it, even against their will, to take its place in the advancement and
						government of a great State.
				

				

				
					CHAPTER X.

					Indiana Territory Formed--General Harrison Governor--Second Grade
						Government.

					In May, 1800, the Congress of the United States made a law dividing the Northwestern
						Territory into two separate governments, by drawing a line from the mouth of the  Great Miami River below Cincinnati to Fort Recovery, and
						thence north to Canada. The portion of the country west of this line, which included the
						present States of Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin and a part of Minnesota, was
						organized under the name of Indiana Territory, and the seat of government, or capital,
						was fixed at Vincennes. On the 13th of May, William Henry Harrison was appointed
						Governor of the Territory, and the next day John Gibson was appointed Secretary.
						Afterward William Clark, Henry Vanderburgh and John Griffin were appointed Territorial
						Judges.
					At this time the Territory of Indiana contained but three counties--Knox, Wayne and St.
						Clair--with a population of about five thousand. Wayne County included the entire State
						of Michigan, St. Clair County the State of Illinois and all the territory lying west and
						north of it, while Knox County included the organized portion of the present State of
						Indiana.
					In July Secretary Gibson went to Vincennes to make appointments of officers and to
						provide for enforcing the laws. Governor Harrison did not arrive until January 10, 1801.
						He at once called a meeting of the judges of Indiana Territory for the purpose of
						adopting such laws as were needed for its government; for you must remember that as yet
						the people had no voice in making the laws which were to govern them, and that the
						Governor and judges not only made the laws, but the Governor appointed the officers to
						enforce them.
					They met on January 12th, and continued to meet from day to day until the 26th of the
						same month, and during the time adopted and published seven laws and three resolutions.
							 They then adjourned, and on March 3d the Territorial
						Judges opened the first general court of Indiana at Vincennes, and the first grand jury
						of Indiana was formed.
					From this time until the year 1810 the attention of the people of Indiana Territory was
						given to the subjects of land speculation, the adjustment of land titles, the question
						of negro slavery, the organization of a Territorial Legislature, the right of suffrage,
						the division of Indiana Territory, the acts of the Shawnee chief, Tecumseh, and his
						brother, the Prophet, and the movements of Aaron Burr.
					Perhaps it would be well at this time to explain briefly the plans of Burr, which, had
						they proven successful, would have completely changed the history of our State and had
						far-reaching effects upon the government of the United States. In the great contest for
						President of the United States in 1801, Thomas Jefferson and Aaron Burr received an
						equal number of votes, and the question of who should be President was decided by a vote
						of Congress. Through the influence of Alexander Hamilton, Burr was defeated; Jefferson
						was elected President and Burr Vice-President. Determining to be revenged on Hamilton,
						Burr challenged him to a duel. Hamilton tried to avoid the challenge, but could not, and
						when they met he refused to fire and was shot and killed by his enem.y The people were
						very indignant against Burr and he fled the country. His revenge was not complete,
						however, so he formed the treasonable plan to raise a large military force, invade
						Mexico, conquer the Spaniards who possessed the country, and induce the Southern States
						and the Western Territory to quit the Union and join him in forming a separate
						government, he himself to become Governor of the new empire.
					
					Burr's efforts to perfect this plan created excitement all over the country. He was
						arrested and tried for treason, but the charges against him were not proven and he was
						set at liberty. lHe left the country for a time, but returned in a few years and died in
						New York a very old and a very poor man.
					Does it not seem strange that slavery ever existed in Indiana? It is difficult to
						realize that in any part of our State human beings were ever held in bondage; yet some
						of the settlers at Vincennes were slave-owners, and for more than sixty years their
						right to own slaves was not questioned. During the time the French were in possession of
						the country, while it was still called Louisiana, the French king, Louis XV, authorized
						the settlers to bring slaves into the province.
					When Virginia ceded the Territory to the United States, Congress passed an ordinance,
						or special law, for the governnment of the Territory. This ordinance, which passed July
						13, 1787, was one of the most remarkable ever made by Congress; indeed, few laws have
						been so important or so far-reaching in effect. Among other things, it declared that
						slavery should never exist in the Northwestern Territory. This law was not strictly
						enforced, however, and the slaves still remained the property of their masters. Some of
						them contracted with their owners to remain with them for a number of years, after which
						they should become free; others were removed to the west side of the Misissippi River
						and to other slave-owning States.
					The people of the Territory were divided on the subject of slavery. Many of them were
						natives of slave-owning States, and were opposed to the ordinance which prohibited  slavery in the Territory, and were in favor of asking
						Congress to change the law, or at least to suspend it for a time and to allow them to
						keep their slaves.
					The question became of such importance, and the people were so divided in their
						opinions and feelings upon the subject, that Governor Harrison, who himself favored the
						slave system, ordered an election to be held in each county for the purpose of choosing
						delegates to a convention, which he ordered to meet at the capital of the Territory, to
						consider the wisdom of asking Congress to suspend the ordinance. Twelve delegates were
						elected and they met at Vincennes, December 20, 1802. Governor Harrison presided over
						the meeting. A document was prepared asking the Congress of the United States to suspend
						the sixth article of the ordinance of 1787, as it was called. This was signed by the
						Governor, the delegates to the convention and a number of the citizens of the Territory;
						it was then laid before Congress. That body referred it to a committee to decide what
						action should be taken upon it.
					The committee reported that in their opinion the labor of slaves was not needed to
						promote the growth of civilization in Indiana Territory. So Congress refused to suspend
						the law, and, although other petitions and resolutions were afterward sent, signed by
						legislative authority, and by many citizens of Indiana Territory, Congress refused to
						make any change in the law.
					Although the petitions asking that the slavery ordinance be suspended were signed by
						the Governor and many prominent people in the Territory, there was strong opposition to
						it, and other petitions asking Congress not to make slavery lawful in Indiana Territory
						were signed by large numbers  of citizens and also sent to
						Congress. The subject was a very important one and claimed the attention of all classes
						of people, who discussed it on all occasions. Although Governor Harrison favored
						slavery, he was not willing to see the law violated, and when he learned that a number
						of colored people were about to be removed from the Territory and sold as slaves, he
						interfered and called upon the authorities to prevent their removal and sale.
					The question of organizing a General Assembly, or Legislature, was at this time much
						discussed by the settlers. Since the Indiana Territory had been organized the Governor,
						Secretary and judges had made the laws and managed the affairs of the Territory. The
						people became dissatisfied that so much power should be given to a few persons and so
						little to the citizens themselves, and so much was said about it that on September 11,
						1804, a vote was taken to ascertain the wishes of a majority of the residents. The
						result of this vote showed that the majority of the land-owners, or "free-holders," as
						they were called, was in favor of organizing a Territorial Legislature, to which the
						people could elect representatives to assist in making the laws which were to govern
						their conduct.
					Upon this, Governor Harrison declared that Indiana Territory had reached that number in
						population which entitled the inhabitants to what is called a "second grade
						governrment," and he ordered an election to be held on January 3, 1805, for the purpose
						of choosing the members of a House of Representatives, and called a meeting of the
						elected members for the first of February, at Vincennes, to take steps to organize a
						Territorial legislative council.
					According to the laws which govern territories, the legislative  council, which corresponds to our State Senate, must be appointed by the
						President and confirmed by the Senate of the United States; but the representatives
						elected by the people of the Territory were given the right to nominate, or select, a
						number of men from whom the President should make the appointments.
					On January 11th the United States Congress enacted a law to divide Indiana Territory,
						for the purpose of forming the Territory of Michigan, and the following June Michigan
						was separated from Indiana.
					The members elected to the Territorial House of Representatives met at Vincennes,
						February 7, 1805, and selected by ballot the names of ten residents of the Territory,
						which were sent to President Jefferson. From this list he was expected to choose the
						members of the Legislative Council, but Mr. Jefferson, being unacquainted with the men
						whose names were sent, returned the list to Governor Harrison with the authority to
						appoint the council. This Mr. Harrison did, although it was then believed that the
						President made the appointments.
					The first meeting of the representatives was for the purpose of selecting a Legislative
						Council, or Senate, as we would now say; no other business could be transacted until
						this was done. On July 9, 1805, the council and representatives met at Vincennes, and
						the first Indiana Legislature was organized.
					On the 13th Governor Harrison delivered his first message to the General Assembly. In
						this he recommended the passage of laws to prevent the sale of intoxicating liquors to
						the Indians, to regulate or establish a better system of courts for the administration
						of justice, to improve the militia, laws  for the
						punishment of crime, and to provide means for raising revenue.
					Having entered upon the second grade of government, the people of Indiana Territory
						were entitled to a delegate to Congress, and the Legislature elected Benjamin Parke to
						this position. Although this delegate was entitled to a seat in Congress and could take
						part in discussions and debates, he had no vote in the proceedings of that body, but he
						could present the needs of the people of his Territory and was able to represent their
						interests.
					Before the Territorial Legislature was organized, the Governor and other officers of
						the Territory were appointed by the President, with the consent of the Senate of the
						United States, but now the people had the right to elect their representatives to the
						Legislature, and the laws were made by these representatives and the Legislative
						Council. Both the Governor and Council were appointed by the President. This form of
						government continued in Indiana for seven years.
					When William Henry Harrison was made Governor of Indiana Territory, he was instructed
						by the United States Government to use his efforts to promote peace and harmony among
						the Indian tribes, and if possible, to persuade them to abandon their manner of living,
						and to engage in farming and other civilized occupations. He was also authorized to
						purchase as much land of them as he could, and to extinguish their titles to the same.
						This Governor Harrion attempted to do. He held a number of counciis with the different
						Indian tribes, at Vincennes, Fort Wayne and other places, and succeeded in procuring
						from them about 29,719,530 acres of land.
					
					The first lands ceded to the United States by the Indians lay in the southern part of
						the State, along the Ohio River; the next purchases lay north of these; so, step by
						step, the savages were pushed northward, as their lands became the property of the
						government. At the close of the year 1805, the United States had procured from these
						tribes about forty-six thousand square miles of territory.
					Although the people of Indiana Territory voted for the second grade government, it was
						found, like many other things, to have its disadvantages; in order to sustain the new
						government, and meet the necessary expense of holding a general assembly, paying
						officers' salaries, etc., it was necessary to tax the people. This caused much
						dissatisfaction, especially among the French settlers who had lived for many years free
						from taxes of any kind, and could see no use in beginning a custom so disagreeable. They
						especially objected to the poll tax, and held a meeting at Vincennes, at which they
						resolved that they would in no way support the men who favored the second grade
						government.
					Many of the old laws which had been adopted by Governor St. Clair and the judges of the
						Northwestern Territory, and some of those adopted by Governor Harrison and the judges of
						Indiana Territory, were revised and re-enacted by the Territorial Legislature. One of
						these laws made the crimes of murder, treason, horse-stealing and arson, each punishable
						by death. Burglary and robbery were punished by whipping, fine, and in some cases
						imprisonment. Forgery was punishable by fine, disfranchisement, and standing in the
						pillory. Stealing was punished by fine, whipping, and in certain cases by being bound to
						labor for a certain time; hog-stealing, by fine and whipping; gambling  and profane swearing and Sabbath-breaking, by fine; bigamy,
						by fine, whipping, and disfranchisement.
					About the year 1806, it began to be felt that the Territory of Indiana was too large to
						be maintained under a single government. The people were so widely separated, and travel
						was so difficult and dangerous and expensive, that it was hard for those who must travel
						long distances to attend court, either as witnesses or interested parties, while the
						great extent of country prevented the laws being enforced in places remote from the seat
						of government.
					There was much discussion on this subject, and petitions and memorials were sent to
						Congress asking that Indiana Territory be divided. So, on the first day of March, 1809,
						a law was made dividing the Territory from north to south, by a line drawn from
						Vincennes to Canada, and by the Wabash River to the Ohio. All that country lying west of
						that line and river, was called Illinois Territory, and that portion east remained
						Indiana Territory. The population of the Territory the year before this division, was
						about 28,000; of these, 11,000 lived west of the Wabash. It is probable that about
						20,000 people remained in Indiana Territory after it was divided.
					After the Territory was divided, it was found that there was some irregularity in the
						number of representatives to the Legislature in the several counties. So, the two houses
						of the general assembly requested the Governor to dissolve the Legislature, and an
						election was held to select a delegate to Congress, at which Jonathan Jennings, who
						afterwards became the first Governor of the State of Indiana, was chosen. At this time
						there were but four organized counties in the Territory--Knox, Harrison, Clark and
						Dearborn, in which but nine hundred and thirty votes were cast.
					
					The Governor having dissolved the Legislature, it became necessary to elect new
						members, and an election was held for this purpose. The next Legislature met November
						12, 1810. In his first message to this Legislature, Governor Harrison strongly
						recommended that a system of popular education be established, and called attention to
						the dangerous influence of the Shawnee warrior Tecumseh, and his brother, the Prophet.
						He outlined his views on the Indian question in the following language, which also gives
						us an idea of the condition of the country at that time: "Although much has been done to
						extinguish the Indian titles in the Territory, much still remains to be done. We have
						not yet sufficient space to form a tolerable State. The eastern settlements are
						separated from the west by a considerable extent of Indian lands, and the most fertile
						tracts that are in our territorial bounds are still their property. Almost entirely
						divested of the game from which they had drawn their subsistence, it has become of
						little use to them, and it was the intention of the government to substitute, for the
						precarious and scanty supplies which the chase affords, the more certain support which
						is derived from agriculture, and the rearing of domestic animals. By the considerate and
						sensible among them, this plan is considered as the only one which will save them from
						utter extirpation. But a most formidable opposition has been raised to it by the
						warriors, who will never agree to abandon their old habits, until driven to it by
						absolute necessity. As long as a deer is to be found in the forests, they will continue
						to hunt. It has, therefore, been supposed that confining them to narrow limits, was the
						only means of producing this highly desirable change, and averting the destruction which
						seems to  impend over them. Are, then, those
						extinguishments of native titles which are at once so beneficial to the Indians, the
						Territory and the United States, to be suspended on account of a few individuals? Is one
						of the fairest portions of the globe to remain in a state of nature, the haunt of a few
						wretched savages, when it seems destined by the Creator to give support to a larger
						population, and to be the seat of civilization, of science and the true religion?"
					Governor Harrison urged this Legislature to establish a school system, and advised that
						a military branch be added to it; that the boys and young men of the Territory be taught
						military evolutions and tactics. At this time, the population of Indiana Territory had
						increased to 24,520.
				

				

				
					CHAPTER XI.

					Tecumseh and the Prophet--Battle of Tippecanoe.

					The affairs of the new Territory of Indiana ran along in this way, gradually shaping
						themselves into a permanent and well-defined government, and the inhabitants were
						gradually adapting themselves to the new order of things--building their cabins,
						clearing the ground for their farms and gardens, cultivating their fields, and
						conducting their trades, and with few exceptions, quite at peace with the Indians, until
						the year 1805.
					About this time the Indians complained to Governor Harrison that the white settlers
						were not keeping their part of the agreement between the Indians and the United States,
						but were encroaching upon the land belonging to 
						
							AN INDIAN COUNCIL SCENE.
						
						From English's "Conquest of the Northwestern Territory."
						
						 them; that they invaded their hunting grounds, and with
						little or no provocation, killed their people. They also complained that the white men
						were not punished for offenses committed against the savages, while the Indimans
						received the full penalty of the law. In an address delivered before the Territorial
						Legislature, Governor Harrison referred to these charges, and said, "I am sorry to say
						that their complaints are far from groundless," and he urged the members of that
						assembly to lose no opportunity to encourage the "impartial administration of
						justice."
					Early in the year 1805, a Shawnee warrior named Tecumseh lived with his brother,
						Law-le-was-i-kaw, or, "Loud Voice," in a Delaware village which stood on the west side
						of White River in Delaware county. Tecumseh was very ambitious; he hated the whites, and
						allowed his ambition and his hatred to control every other feeling.
					About this time his brother, Law-le-was-i-kaw, concluded it would be a fine thing to
						assume the character of a prophet. So he took the name of Pems-quat-a-wa, which in the
						Shawnee language means the "Open Door;" and he began to preach to the Indians who were
						about him against witchcraft, and the use of intoxicating liquors, or "fire water," as
						the Indians called it, and against the habits and dress of the white people, against the
						practice of selling lands to the United States, against the custom of Indian women
						marrying white men--all very good subjects for the Indians to consider if he had stopped
						there; but he claimed that the Great Spirit had told him that those who practiced
						witchcraft and magic should be put to death, and that the power had been given him to
						discover such persons and expose them.
					
					He also claimed the power to cure disease, and to prevent death in sickness or in war.
						In short, he so excited the superstition and credulity of the Indians, that many of them
						believed in him, and one poor old Delaware chief, Tate-e-bock-o-she, who was at peace
						with the Americans, and who had influenced his tribe to treat with them, was accused of
						witchcraft, was tried, condemned and tomahawked, and his body burned at an Indian
						village which stood on the site of York town, in Delaware county. Tate-e-bock-o-she's
						wife ard nephew and another old Indian named Joshua, were also accused of witchcraft and
						condemned to die, but while in the council house, the brother of the woman suddenly
						appeared, and, taking her by the hand, led her away. The two men were burned at the
						stake.
					Law-le-was-i-kaw was so determined to maintain the character of a prophet, that he
						accused those who opposed him of being witches, and had them put to death. One old woman
						thus accused, was slowly roasted over a fire for four days before she was allowed to
						die. He succeeded in convincing some of the Indians of his power, by declaring that on a
						certain day and hour he would bring darkness upon the earth. In some way he had learned
						that an eclipse of the sun would occur at that time, and he craftily used his knowledge
						to play upon the superstition of the savages. When the eclipse actually took place, he
						triumphantly exclaimed, "Did I not prophesy truly?"
					When Governor Harrison heard of these things, he wrote a speech to the Indians and sent
						it to the Delaware towns, warning them against the Prophet, and advising them to listen
						no more to his speeches about witchcraft, but to demand proof of his being the messenger
						of the Great Spirit.
					
					After this, the Prophet removed to Greenville, Ohio, accompanied by his brother,
						Tecumseh, and a small band of Indians. He remained in that vicinity until the spring of
						1808, and succeeded in collecting a number of followers. The Indian agent at Greenville
						became suspicious of him, and the settlers in the vicinity were alarmed by his actions
						and lived in fear of him and his band. They were greatly relieved when he left
						Greenville and removed to the Wabash, near the mouth of Tippecanoe River. Here he
						settlcd with his little band of about 140 Indians, and built a village, which was called
						"The Prophet's Town."
					While Law-le-was-i-kaw was winning fame and influence as a prophet among the Indians,
						his brother, Tecumseh, had not been idle. He formed the daring plan of uniting all the
						Indian tribes of the west and south into one great confederacy, for the purpose of
						resisting the Americans and preventing them from extending their settlements over the
						land belonging to them. He claimed that the treaties between the United States and the
						Indians were not fairly made, and that no tribe had the right to sell the land without
						the consent of all the other tribes.
					Early in 1808, Governor Harrison prepared a speech which he sent by John Conner, an
						agent of Indian affairs, to the chiefs and head men of the Shawnee tribes. In this
						speech he said: "My children, this business must be stopped. I will no longer suffer it.
						You have called a number of men from the most distant tribes, to listen to a fool, who
						speaks not the words of the Great Spirit, but those of the devil and the British agents.
						My children, your conduct has much alarmed the white settlers near you; they desire that
						you send those people away, and if they wish to  have the
						impostor with them, they can carry him. Let him gc to the lakes; he can hear the British
						more distinctly."
					The Prophet was present when this speech was read, and sent a reply to the Governor by
						Mr. Conner, in which he said: "Father, I am sorry that you listen to the advice of bad
						birds. You have accused me of having corresponded with the British, and with calling and
						sending for the Indians from the most distant parts of the country, to listen to a
						'fool' that speaks not the words of the Great Spirit, but the words of the devil.
						Father, those things I deny and say they are not true. I never had a word with the
						British and I never sent for any Indians; they came themselves to listen and hear the
						words of the Great Spirit."
					Late in June of the same year, the Prophet sent a message to Governor Harrison assuring
						him that the Indians who had settled in the Prophet's Town wished to live in peace with
						the white people. The Indian who brought this message, in a conversation with the
						Governor, said: "I have listened to the words of the Prophet for upwards of three years,
						and have never heard him give any but good advice. He tells us that we must pray to the
						Great Spirit who made the world and everything in it, for our use. He tells us that no
						man can make the trees, the plants and the animals, but that they must be made by the
						Great Spirit, to whom we ought to pray and obey in all things. He tells us not to lie,
						to steal, nor to drink whisky; not to go to war, but to live in peace with all mankind.
						He tells us also to work and make corn."
					In August the Prophet himself came to Vincennes, and had an interview with Governor
						Harrison, and he talked so fairly, and so earnestly, that he succeeded in making the  Governor think that perhaps his intentions and those of
						Tecumseh were not so bad as he had supposed, and that the reports he had received of
						their conduct had been exaggerated, and that the Prophet's teachings were calculated to
						improve the moral condition of the savages; but scarcely had the Prophet returned to his
						home than he received such reports of the conduct of the Indians at the Prophet's Town,
						as convinced him that he had been deceived by the smooth speeches of the Prophet, and
						that both he and his brother were very dangerous persons, indeed; that they were not
						only forming a confederacy among the Indians, but that they received encouragement from
						the British agents in the north, and that in case of war between America and Great
						Britain, the Indians would become the friends of the British.
					The following summer, the Prophet and about fifty of his followers again visited
						Vincennes, and held several interviews with the Governor. He denied any intention of
						organizing the Indians for the purpose of attacking any of the frontier settlements, and
						said that he had declined an invitation from the British to engage in war against the
						United States, and that he had persuaded some of the tribes to cease their hostilities
						toward the Americans. But the Governor was not convinced of the Prophet's good
						intentions, and regarded him as having a very bad influence over the other Indians. He
						continued his efforts to secure by treaty as much Indian land as possible lying within
						the Indiana Territory.
					Tecumseh and the Prophet tried to prevent the Indians from selling their land, and
						threatened to prevent that already ceded from being surveyed. The settlers became  greatly alarmed by the movements of the brothers ard their
						band, and the stories told of their conduct and their threats, prevented emigrants from
						forming other settlements in Indiana.
					During the summer of 1810, the savages became very troublesome, stealing, plundering
						and in many ways annoying the settlers. The Governor sent frequent messages to the
						Prophet's Town, and to the villages of the Miamis, Delawares and Pottawattomies, by
						Francis Vigo and other influential citizens of Vincennes, and assured them that the
						friendship and protection of the United States should be given them, and warned them
						that Tecumseh and the Prophet were dangerous leaders, and would surely bring them into
						trouble if they followed them.
					It is probable that at this time the Prophet's followers numbered about six hundred and
						fifty restless warriors. Through the influence of a number of Delawares who were
						friendly to the Americans, others were prevented from joining the Prophet and his band.
						The Indians at the Prophet's Town became more bold and offensive; they treated with
						rudeness the boatmen who were sent to deliver the annual supply of salt which the
						government furnished them; the Governor's messengers were accused of being spies, and
						threatened with death, although no actual violence was done them.
					In August, 1810, Tecumseh visited Vincennes. Although he had been requested to bring
						but few Indians with him, he was attended by four hundred warriors. They came down the
						Wabash in eighty canoes all painted in a frightful manner and fully armed with tomahawks
						and war-clubs. The citizens of Vincennes were alarmed by the approach of so many warlike savages, and the Governor and officials
						were annoyed that Tecumseh should bring so many Indians with him, for, as they were the
						guests of the town, food must be provided for them, and they must otherwise be
						entertained. The Indians camped near the town, and arrangements were made for holding a
						council with Tecumseh at the house of the Governor, on the morning of the 15th.
					At the appointed hour the Governor, with the judges of the Supreme Court, some officers
						of the army, a sergeant and twelve men from Fort Knox (three miles above Vincennes) and
						a large number of citizens, awaited the coming of Tecumseh and his warriors, in the
						porch of the Governor's house, which had been furnished with seats for the occasion.
					Tecumseh approached within a short distance of the house and paused. He was a
						remarkably fine looking man, and doubtless looked very imposing in his war-paint and
						feathers. An interpreter was sent to invite him and his warriors to seats on the porch,
						but he declined the invitation, saying that it was not a suitable place, and pointing to
						a grove a short distance away, requested that the council be held there. The Governor
						replied that there were no seats in the grove; but Tecumseh answered that that was no
						objection--the earth was the proper seat for Indians. So the chairs and benches were
						removed to the grove, the Indians seating themselves upon the ground.
					Tecumseh opened the meeting by relating the wrongs of the Indians. His manner was
						haughty, and his speech was bold. He declared that the Americans had driven the Indians
						from the sea coast and would soon push them into the 
						lakes. He accused the whites of having killed some of the Indians and taking from them
						their lands. He declared that the land was sold, and the price received for it by a few
						Indians who had no right to dispose of it without the consent of all the tribes. He
						insisted that the Indians had been defrauded, and demanded that the land be restored to
						them. He said that it was not his intention to make war upon the United States, but that
						he was determined to resist further intrusion of the whites upon Indian lands.
					When he had finished, his speech was interpreted to the Governor, who replied to it and
						took his seat; and the interpreter began to translate his speech to the Indians.
						Tecumseh listened for a while, and then, springing to his feet, began to speak in a
						defiant and violent manner. The Governor was surprised, but, not understanding the
						language, supposed he was making some explanation. Just then his attention was attracted
						by Winnemac, a friendly Indian, who, lying on the grass before him, was loading his
						pistol, holding it so that the Governor could see it, but keeping it hid from the other
						Indians.
					While watching Winnemac, the Governor heard his secretary, General Gibson, say to an
						officer, "Those fellows mean mischief; you had better bring up the guard." At the same
						moment the Indians seized their tomahawks and war-clubs and sprang to their feet,
						keeping their eyes upon the Governor, who arose from his chair and drew a small sword
						which hung at his side. Captain Floyd, who stood near him, also drew a dirk, and
						Winnemac cocked his pistol.
					It was a critical and dramatic situation. The citizens were in numbers greater than the
						Indians, but they were unarmed. They hastily provided themselves with stones,  and such other weapons as they could procure. Mr. Winans, a
						minister of the gospel, who was present, ran to the Governor's house, snatched up a gun
						and stationed himself at the door to defend the family.
					Not a word was spoken during this scene, until the guard came running up and was in the
						act of firing, when the Governor ordered them to stop. He then demanded to know the
						meaning of this strange occurrence. The interpreter replied that Tecumseh had
						interrupted him while he was explaining the Governor's speech, by declaring that
						everything he said was false.
					Turning to Tecumseh, the Governor told him that he was a very bad man--that he would
						put out the council fires, and have nothing more to do with him. The Indians returned to
						their camp and were carefully watched that night; the militia was re-enforced, and
						preparations were made for an attack, but none was made.
					The next morning, Tecumseh requested an interview with the Governor, that he might
						explain his actions of the day before, claiming that he had no intention of attacking
						him. The request was granted, and at the meeting Tecumseh was dignified and respectful.
						He insisted that his claims to the land ceded to the Americans was a just one; that a
						purchase could not be made without the consent of all the tribes, and repeated his
						determination to resist further settlements or surveys of the land.
					The Governor promised to state the claims of the Indians to the President of the United
						States, but gave it as his opinion that the government would not restore the land it had
						fairly purchased of the tribes who occupied it, and that the rights of the United States
						would be protected by the sword if it should become necessary.
					
					The following day Governor Harrison went to Tecumseh's camp with only an interpreter to
						accompany him. He was politely received, and held a long interview with Tecumseh, but
						with no better results. He again promised to make known to the President the views of
						the warrior, but told him that it was not probable that his terms would be agreed to.
						Tecumseh replied: "Well, as the great chief is to determine the matter, I hope the Great
						Spirit will put sense enough into his head to induce him to give up this land. It is
						true he is so far off that he will not be injured by the war; he may sit in his town and
						drink his wine, whilst you and I will have to fight it out."
					At the close of this interview Governor Harrison suggested that in case there should
						actually be war between the United States and the Indians, he should use his influence
						to induce the savages to abandon their cruel treatment of women, children and prisoners.
						Tecumseh, who possessed some excellent traits of character, had from his youth been
						opposed to this savage cruelty, and agreed to this proposal.
					Soon after this, a small force of United States troops were sent from Newport,
						Kentucky, to Vincennes, under command of Captain Cross, for the purpose of building a
						fort on the Wabash. They were to be assisted in this by the Militia Infantry and the
						Knox County Dragoons, but for some reason, the fort was not built until the following
						year.
					The trouble caused by Tecumseh and the Prophet grew worse and worse. The Indians became
						more mischievous and aggressive. They were encouraged by the British agents in Canada,
						who believed that war was about to be declared between the United States and Great
						Britain, and tried to win the friendship of the northwestern tribes and  cause trouble between them and the Americans. The Indians
						destroyed the property of the whites, frightened a party of surveyors from their work,
						and a quantity of salt sent by the government to other tribes was seized by the Indians
						at the Prophet's Town.
					The settlers became desperate and a party of white men killed an Indian, and wounded
						two others. The Governor continued his efforts to break up the confederacy at the
						Prophet's Town, and sent speeches to the leaders, warning them that the Indians were
						seeking their own destruction, and that their conduct could no longer be tolerated. He
						began preparations for building a fort on the Wabash for the protection of the
						settlers.
					One day in July, 1811, great excitement and alarm was caused among the residents of
						Vincennes by the arrival of about three hundred Indian warriors and twenty or thirty
						women and children. It was Tecumseh and his army come to interview the Governor. He was
						met by Captain Wilson, before he reached the town, and told that the Governor was
						displeased with him for bringing so many Indians with him. Tecumseh replied that he only
						brought twenty-four men; that the others came of their own accord.
					Governor Harrison made preparation for them by reviewing the militia, and stationing
						companies on the borders of the town. If the Indians intended to make an attack, they
						changed their minds upon seeing the strength of the troops, which were composed of about
						seven hundred and fifty men, and Tecumseh assured the Governor that he had no intention
						of making war upon the Americans, and promised that the settlers should not be further
						molested by the Indians. He did not remain long at Vincennes, but, taking about twenty
						warriors with him, journeyed southward.
					
					The people were so alarmed by the movements of the savages, that they held a public
						meeting at Vincennes, and prepared resolutions declaring that the inhabitants of
						Indiiana Territory were exposed to great danger from the Indians at the Prophet's Town,
						and requesting the President of the United States to order them to disperse, or to take
						steps to cause them to leave that locality.
					A few days before this, however, President Madison had instructed the Secretary of War
						to authorize Governor Harrison to call out the militia of the Territory, and in case it
						should become necessary, or advisable, to attack the Prophet and his followers, and if
						needed, to call into service certain United States troops. At the same time, the
						President urged that peaceful relations be preserved with the Indians, so long as the
						safety of the settlers and the rights of the government of the United States would
						allow.
					Governor Harrison believed that the time had come when the hostile band at the
						Prophet's Town should be broken up, and he ordered a military expedition to move up the
						Wabash River and erect a fort. When the troops were about ready to move, a party of
						Indians from the Prophet's Town arrived, and made strong professions of peace and
						friendship. The army started, however, on September 26, 1811, and camped above the old
						Wea village where the city of Terre Haute now stands.
					There is an old Indian tradition that at this place a desperate battle was once fought
						between the Illinois Indians and the Iroquois confederacy. On account of this, the early
						French settlers called it "Bataille des Illinois." Here Governor Harrison put the troops
						to building a fort, which, when completed, was named Fort Harrison. While, the  men were at work on the fort, some friendly tribes of
						Delawares and Miamis told them that the Prophet had sent a war speech to some of the
						Delaware chiefs, and declared that the "tomahawk was up against the whites," and would
						not be taken down until the wrongs of the Indians had been made right. They also said
						that some of the Delaware chiefs had tried to persuade the Prophet to abandon his
						purpose, but he would not listen to them.
					While the troops were camped here, a sentinel was wounded by a small party of Shawnees,
						who were prowling about. Soldiers were at once sent against them, but they made their
						escape. The Governor sent four Miami Indians with a message to certain men who were at
						the Prophet's Town, to return to their own tribes. He also sent a message to the Prophet
						demanding that he return to their owners the stolen horses in his possession, and that
						he deliver up the murderers of white settlers, whom he was protecting. The Indians never
						returned, and no attention was given to the message.
					Fort Harrison was finished on October 28th, and Lieutenant-Colonel Miller, with a small
						force of men, was left to guard it, while the remainder of the troops moved on toward
						the Prophet's Town. On the last day of the month, they crossed the Wabash River near the
						present town of Montezuma, in Parke county, and three days later they encamped on the
						western bank of the river, two miles below the Big Vermillion River, and built a
						block-house a mile below their camping place. They stationed an officer and eight men to
						guard this point, and to protect the boats which were used to bring supplies to the
						soldiers.
					The next day the army continued its march. The force 
						amounted to about 910 men, and consisted of 250 regular troops under Colonel Boyd, about
						60 volunteers from Kentucky, and 600 citizens of Indiana Territory. About 270 men were
						on horse-back, the remainder were on foot.
					On the 6th of November they came in sight of the Prophet's Town. All that day parties
						of Indians had been seen prowling about. Several times the interpreters had tried to
						talk with them, but they would say nothing. When about a mile and a half from the town,
						the army halted, and Governor Harrison sent the captain of the guides and spies, with an
						interpreter, to request an interview with the Prophet. They started on this errand, and
						tried to talk with several Indians, but they made no reply, and seemed to be trying to
						cut them off from the main army.
					The officers seeing this, and fearing for their safety, ordered them to return, and the
						entire army, "in order of battle," marched toward the town. The interpreters were placed
						in front, to request a conference with the Prophet. They had not gone far when they were
						met by three Indians, who requested to speak with Governor Harrison. One of them, who
						was a man of influence with the Prophet, expressed surprise that the Americans should so
						soon advance upon them, as they had been informed by messengers that the Governor would
						wait until he received a reply to his demands, and that the answer had been sent two
						days before, but that the messengers had taken the opposite road from that of the army,
						which had taken the western side of the Wabash River.
					Governor Harrison replied that he would not attack the town until he had an answer from
						the Indians; that he would go into camp and have an interview with the Prophet  and his chiefs the next morning. They continued their march
						and were soon met by a party of fifty or sixty Indians, who commanded them to halt.
						Advancing to the front, Governor Harrison halted the army and sent an interpreter to
						request the chief men to come to him.
					The same men came who had met him before. They were told by the Governor that he was
						seeking for a place to camp, where he could have good water, etc. The Indians directed
						him to a location which they said would doubtless please him. Two officers were sent to
						examine the spot, who reported the situation to be excellent. He then took leave of the
						Indians, each promising that hostilities should not begin until a council was held the
						next day.
					The spot selected for a camping place was not well chosen. It was a high piece of
						ground covered with trees, with marshy prairies both in front and rear, through which
						ran small streams whose banks were thickly lined with willows and other brushwood.
					That night the troops were kept in military position, which is called "lying on their
						arms;" that is, they slept with their clothes on and with fixed bayonets, and encamped
						in "order of battle," so that each corps formed the outer line of the camp, and was
						instructed to hold the ground in case there should be an attack. The regular troops lay
						in their tents with their arms at their sides. The militia had no tents, and slept with
						their guns under them to keep them dry.
					Although the army was placed at the very best advantage, and the officers knew the
						treacherous character of the savages, it seems that they did not expect an attack before
						morning. The night was dark and cloudy, and it rained 
						after midnight. At four o'clock the Governor arose and prepared to call up the troops.
						He was drawing on his boots by the fire, and talking to some officers; a few minutes
						longer and the entire army would have been awake. Just at this moment, the left of the
						army was so suddenly attacked that the savages were in the camp before many of the men
						could get out of their tents.
					The whole army was on its feet in an instant; the campfires were extinguished; the
						Governor mounted his horse and rode to the front of the attack. So quickly did they act,
						that in a few minutes the entire army was ready for battle. The Indians gave their
						terrible war-whoop and came on, making terrific noises--rattling the hoofs of deer and
						yelling at the top of their voices. The battle was furious, and lasted until daylight,
						when a strong charge was made by the American troops, which drove the Indians into the
						swamps, and ended the fight.
					The Americans conducted themselves with remarkable bravery. Many of them had never been
						in battle before, but it was said that they "behaved like veterans," while the officers
						won distinction by their bravery and valor. The result of the battle was the complete
						defeat of the Indians, and the breaking up of the Prophet's Town and of the Indian
						settlements on the Wabash. The influence of the Prophet over the Indians was completely
						destroyed, and the designs of Tecumseh were defeated.
					The loss to the Americans was 37 killed in battle and 151 wounded, 25 of whom afterward
						died of their wounds. A number of officers were killed or mortally wounded. A ball
						passed through the stock worn by the Governor, slightly burning his neck, another struck
						his saddle and, glancing,  hit his thigh, while a third
						wounded his horse. The exact number of Indians engaged in this battle and the loss in
						killed and wounded, has never been known. The reports given of the number in battle vary
						from 350 to 1,000; the number was probably between 800 and 1,000.
					During the battle, the Prophet stood on a high piece of ground and encouraged his
						warriors by singing a war song, and telling them that the victory would surely be
						theirs, for the bullets of the enemy could not harm them; and when he was told that some
						of the Indians had been killed, he replied that the warriors must fight on, and they
						would soon be victorious.
					The Indians whom the Prophet had gathered about him, lost faith in him after this
						battle. They called him a liar; and some of them bound him and threatened to put him to
						death; and almost all of them returned to their tribes, and the impostor was left alone.
						His town was completely destroyed, and he went with a small band of Wyandottes to the
						banks of Wild Cat Creek, northeast of LaFayette, in Tippecanoe County.
					The battle of Tippecanoe, as it was called, took place while Tecumseh was in the south,
						whither he had gone to try to persuade the southern tribes to join him against the
						whites. It is said that when he returned he was very angry with his brother, the
						Prophet, for attacking the Americans, for by this defeat of the Indians, he lost all
						hope of forming a confederacy of the northwestern tribes.
					The battle of Tippecanoe occurred November 7, 1811. Having completely routed the
						savages, the American troops remained long enough to bury the dead and care for the
						wounded, and then started on their return journey, reaching  Fort Harrison the 14th, having been absent but little more than two weeks. Here the
						wounded were placed in boats and sent to Vincennes, and the army continued its march,
						leaving a company of regulars, under Captain Smelling, in charge of the fort. They
						reached Vincennes November 18th.
					So ended the memorable battle of Tippecanoe, and so were destroyed the deep-laid plans
						of Tecumseh and the Prophet. Tecumseh joined the British in Canada and fought against
						the Americans in the war of 1812, and waB killed at the battle of the Thames, in
						1813.
				

				

				
					CHAPTER XII.

					The War of 1812--Suffering of the Settlers.

					It was with feelings of great relief that the settlers in Indiana Territory learned the
						result of the campaign against Tecumseh and the Prophet. They were not allowed to enjoy
						their security very long, however, for early the following year it became known that
						some of the Indian tribes were not disposed to remain at peace with the Americans any
						longer, and in April, there was great alarm throughout the Territory, caused by the
						report that several white people had been killed by the Indians in the vicinity of the
						Wabash. Governor Harrison at once ordered the militia force to prepare for active
						service; block-houses and picketed forts were built in all the principal settlements
						that were in any way exposed to danger.
					At this time, the United States was at war with Great 
						Britain concerning American commerce, and the right of "impressment;" and the British
						agents in Canada who sought the friendship and assistance of the Indians, were the cause
						of many of these outbreaks. Some of the tribes were the friends of the United States,
						but large numbers became the allies of the British.
					Early in January, 1812, the Miami chief, Little Turtle, sent a message to Governor
						Harrison, assuring him that in case of war between the Americans and British, that the
						Miami and Eel River tribes would continue the friends of the Americans.
					When it became known to the Indians that there would indeed be war, they held a great
						council, at which the most of the northwestern tribes were represented. The majority of
						these tribes were in favor of remaining at peace with the United States. Tecumseh, who
						was present, was not satisfied with the proceedings of the council, nor with the
						peaceful intentions shown by the Indians, and soon after joined the British forces in
						Canada.
					England and France were at war with each other. For the purpose of injuring her enemy,
						England interfered with the trade between France and other nations. Napoleon, who was
						emperor of France, in order to get even, interfered with England's trade with other
						nations. They surrounded each other's ports with war vessels to prevent foreign ships
						from going in or coming out.
					In May, 1806, England proclaimed that the entire coast of France was blockaded. The
						American seamen did not know this, for there were no telegraphic cables, as there are
						now, and many vessels belonging to them were captured as prizes by the English. In fact,
						the harbors of France were  not blockaded at all; they
						were only declared to be so. Then Bonaparte declared that the English ports were
						blockaded, and the American merchantmen were seized by the French.
					Then the English prohibited the French coasting trade, and the French prohibited the
						English coasting trade; and so they went on quarreling with each other, and all the
						while the Americans were the greatest sufferers. If her ships sailed to or from any
						British port, they were liable to be captured by the French; if they sailed to or from
						any other than British ports, they were sure to be made the prizes of the English.
					But Great Britain did not stop at this. Under the claim that anyone born in England
						remains a British subject for life, English cruisers were authorized to search American
						vessels, and to "impress" into the British navy all persons "suspected" of being
						subjects of Great Britain.
					Now, as a matter of truth, many Englishmen had immigrated to this country and become
						citizens of the United States. Some of these were seamen, and it was easy to "suspect"
						native Americans for English subjects, and many Americans, as well as Englishmen, were
						captured and compelled and serve the enemies of their country.
					An American frigate named the "Chesapeake" sailed out of the Chesapeake Bay, and was
						hailed by the "Leopard," a British man-of-war, who demanded to search the Chesapeake for
						deserters. This the commander of the Chesapeake refused to allow, and the Leopard fired
						upon the ship and compelled her to surrender. Four men were suspected and taken from the
						captured vessel. Three of them were Americans; the fourth was an actual deserter, and
						was tried and hanged.
					
					The British government professed to disapprove of this outrage, and promised to make
						amends, but it never fulfilled the promise. This was more than the Americans could bear,
						and Thomas Jefferson, then President of the United States, issued a proclamation
						forbidding English war ships to enter the United States harbors; but still England made
						no amends for her insults. Then Congress passed a law detaining all American vessels in
						the United States ports, hoping that by cutting off all trade with France and England,
						they might compel them to recognize American rights. This was called the "Embargo
						Act."
					Then England issued an order prohibiting all trade with France, and Napoleon,
						determining to keep even, forbade all commerce with England. So between these two
						nations, American commerce was completely ruined. Then came a change of Presidents.
						James Madison succeeded Jefferson in 1809. The act prohibiting ships from leaving the
						United States harbors was repealed, and American ships were allowed to sail for other
						ports, but were forbidden to trade with England. Napoleon then authorized his seamen to
						capture all American vessels approaching France, but soon recalled the order. England,
						however, continued her hostilities, and ships still hovered around American ports
						to-enforce her orders. This was the condition of affairs when Tecumseh and the Prophet
						were causing so much trouble in Indiana Territory.
					More than six thousand American citizens had already been captured and impressed into
						the British navy, and it was no longer to be hoped that war could be avoided. So, on
						June 4, 1812, the United States declared war against Great Britain. It at once became
						necessary to protect the  northwestern frontier from the
						attacks of the Indians, many of whom, as we have seen, were the allies of the British;
						so a large force of men was raised and placed under the command of General William Hull,
						of Michigan Territory, who was authorized to invade and conquer Canada, if circumstances
						were favorable to such a course.
					He began his march toward Detroit on June 1st. Reaching the Maumee River, he placed his
						stores and official papers in a boat, and sent them to Detroit, while his army continued
						its hard march through two hundred miles of forest. He reached Detroit early in July,
						where the discouraging news awaited him that his boats had been captured and all his
						supplies and papers were in the hands of the enemy. He crossed the river to capture
						Malden, but learning that the American fort at Mackinaw had been captured by the
						British, he returned to Detroit.
					General Brock, who was Governor of Upper Canada, was in charge of the British forces at
						Malden. Here he was joined by Tecumseh, and on August 16th, with their forces of 1,300
						British and Indians, they together crossed the river and advanced upon Detroit, which
						General Hull still held with a force of over 2,300 men.
					The American troops were ready for battle, but when the British were within a few
						hundred yards, General Hull hoisted the white flag, and the entire force became
						prisoners, and the Territory of Michigan was surrendered to the British. This act of
						General Hull was considered cowardly, and the entire country felt disgraced and
						humiliated. Hull was brought before a court-martial, charged with cowardice and treason,
						and was sentenced to be shot, but was afterward pardoned by President Madison on the
						ground that he had served his country well in the war of the Revolution.
					
					Just before the surrender of Detroit, the Indians were giving trouble to the settlers
						in the territory about Fort Dearborn, at the present site of Chicago. Learning that an
						attack was soon to be made on the fort itself, Captain Wells, of Fort Wayne, in company
						with a party of friendly Miami Indians, went to warn the troops of their danger, and
						escort them from the fort. They reached Fort Dearborn August 13th, and the garrison
						offered to surrender the fort to the Indians on condition that they be allowed to retire
						unmolested. The Indians agreed to this, but after the soldiers had gone about a mile and
						a half from the fort, they treacherously attacked them, killed twenty-six of the regular
						troops, all of the militia, murdered two women and twelve children, and took
						twenty-eight prisoners. Captain Wells and about fifteen Indians were among the killed.
						These victories of the British, combined with other reasons, caused other Indian tribes
						to take up arms against the Americans, and war parties were sent to attack the
						settlements in Indiana Territory.
					Soon after receiving official notice of the war between the United States and Great
						Britain, Governor Harrison went to Kentucky for the purpose of procuring volunteers to
						assist in defending the settlers in Indiana and Illinois Territories. Kentucky being on
						the east side of the Ohio River, and outside the territory claimed by the Indians, was
						free from the invasion of the savages, but she generously responded to the call to help
						her suffering neighbors, and freely offered her sons for the defense of the State of
						Chio and the Territories of Indiana, Illinois and Michigan.
					In September, large parties of Indians began to gather at Fort Wayne, and the same
						month a party of warriors tried  to capture Fort Harrison.
						Other bands invaded the country as far southeast as Clark and Jefferson Counties. Two
						men who were working in a field near Fort Harrison were killed and scalped, and the next
						night a body of several hundred Indians attacked the fort and set fire to one of the
						block-houses. Captain Zachary Taylor, who afterward became President of the United
						States, was in command of the fort. The most of his men were ill, or were recovering
						from illness, and not more than fifteen of them were able for service, but they resisted
						the attack as best they could.
					It was a terrible situation, and it required great bravery to face it. The burning
						block-house joined the barracks, and when the men saw the bursting flames they gave
						themselves up for lost. To make the situation more trying, a number of woman and
						children had taken refuge in the fort, and their cries, mingled with the raging of the
						flames and the yelling of the savages, made a scene most terrible. Nothing but the
						bravery and presence of mind of Captain Taylor saved them. Under his direction the fire
						was extinguished and temporary breastworks raised where the burned building had stood,
						and they were enabled to hold the fort until morning when the Indians withdrew. As soon
						as was possible, a force was sent after them, but they made their escape.
					That same month a party of soldiers who were escorting prisoners from Vincennes to Fort
						Harrison, were attacked at a place called "The Narrows" in Sullivan County. The
						prisoners were captured by the Indians and seven of the soldiers were killed or
						wounded.
					Some time previous to this, a few families had formed a settlement in what is now Scott
						County. This was called  "The Pigeon Roost Settlement,"
						and was separated from the nearest settlement by five or six miles. One day two men were
						in the woods hunting about two miles from the settlement, when they were attacked and
						killed by Indians; about sunset, the same party attacked Pigeon Roost Settlement, and
						within an hour killed one man, five women and sixteen children. They then set fire to
						the cabins, burning some of the bodies in the flames which destroyed their homes. One
						woman, two men and five children escaped.
					The massacre caused great excitement and alarm among the settlers. A company of militia
						from Clark County was sent to the scene of the tragedy, who buried the remains of the
						unfortunate victims, and the next day about 150 mounted riflemen followed the trail of
						the Indians, but did not overtake them.
					After this the settlers on the frontiers of Clark, Jefferson, Harrison and Knox
						counties lived in a constant state of dread and alarm until the close of the war in
						1815.
					To protect themselves against the attacks of the Indians, they people in almost every
						settement built ia fort, or stockade, where they could gather for mutual protection and
						safety. These stockades, or forts, were made of split timber, twelve or fourteen feet
						long, planted firmly in the ground, standing close to gether, and inclosing as much
						space as needed. They were entered by large gates made of hewn timber from three to six
						inches thick, so that bullets could not penetrate them. Inside these inclosures, small
						cabins were built for the families, and usually a block-house was built for further
						protection.
					The block-houses were built of logs and made very strong. They were two stories high,
						the upper story projecting  two or more feet over the
						lower. There were port-holes made in the floor of the projection, so that the men could
						see and shoot the Indians if they got inside the stockade and near the block-house.
						There were also port-holes in the walls of each story, through which they could shoot if
						the Indians should attack from either side. When the settlers dared leave the fort, they
						worked together, first on the land of one, then another; a part of them watching as
						sentinels, to guard the others while they worked.
					Mr. Zebulum Collins, who lived six miles from Pigeon Roost Settlement, speaking of
						those times of suspense and danger, said: "The manner in which I used to work was as
						follows: on all occasions I carried my rifle, tomahawk and butcher knife, with a loaded
						pistol in my belt; when I went to plough I laid my gun on the ploughed ground, and stuck
						up a stick by it, so that I could get it quick in case it was wanted. I had two good
						dogs; I took one into the house, leaving the other out. The one outside was expected to
						give the alarm, which would cause the one inside to bark, by which I would be wakened,
						having my arms always loaded. I kept my horse in a stable close to the house, having a
						port-hole, so that I could shoot to the stable door. During two years I never went from
						home with any certainty of returning, not knowing the minute I would receive a ball from
						an unknown hand; but in the midst of all these dangels, that God who never sleeps or
						slumbers has kept me."
					Those who have never been in real danger can have but little idea of the fear and
						anxiety which the fathers and mothers suffered during those pioneer days. We who close
						our eyes at night with a perfect faith that nothing will disturb our slumbers until
						morning cannot appreciate the feelings  of those who never
						laid down to rest without the fear that before the dawn they might be awakened by the
						flames of their burning homes, or the cries of their murdered children. To the suffering
						of those brave pioneer men and women we owe the peace and prosperity we now enjoy. They
						paved the way in which our feet now tread.
					During the year 1813 the Indians did not attack the garrisoned forts and block-houses
						in Indiana, but the unprotected settlements were often visited by small bands, and a
						number of people were killed. Several expeditions were made to the Delaware towns, on
						the White and the Mississinewa rivers. It was very difficult for the mounted troops to
						travel through the country on account of the density of the forest, fallen trees, and
						swollen rivers; but at last the Indians were overpowered and the settlers allowed to
						live in peace.
					Governor Harrison, who had been appointed Major-General of the Kentucky militia, and
						had commanded all the troops raised in that State for the defense of the northwestern
						frontier, arrived at Fort Wayne September 12th, 1812, with about 2,700 men. At the
						approach of the army, the Indians who had gathered in this vicinity, and had infested
						the fort, burned a few houses and retired. Detachments of troops were sent after them
						for several miles over the country about Fort Wayne, but no Indians were to be found.
						The soldiers, however, destroyed a number of their deserted villages and cornfields.
					There were at this time about 2,000 mounted volunteers at Vincennes, under command of
						General Samuel Hopkins. Expeditions were also sent from this point and a number of
						fields and villages were destroyed. Early the following 
						year General Harrison resigned his command at Fort Wayne, to receive the appointment
						under the President of the United States of commander of the army of the Northwest, and
						General James Winchester was placed in command of the troops at Fort Wayne.
					When General Harrison assumed command of the Northwestern Army, he was instructed by
						the Secretary of War to "provide for the safety of the whole northern frontier, and to
						retake Detroit with a view to the conquest of Upper Canada, and to penetrate that
						country as far as possible."
					You will notice that the first duty given him was to protect the frontier settlements
						from the attacks of the Indians, and his first effort was to collect a large force of
						soldiers and establish a large supply of provisions and military stores at the rapids of
						the Maumee River. But he found this no easy task. Roads must be opened through the
						pathless forests and swamps before the artillery wagons containing the supplies could be
						moved, and forts must be built, and stores of provisions established at suitable places
						through the country. Winter was drawing near and the men were in need of clothing,
						blankets, arms and ammunition; as the cold weather came on they suffered very greatly,
						and so many of them died from sickness and exposure, and so many others were ill, that
						the army was reduced from 10,000 to less than 6,000 men able for duty.
					The Miami Indians at first declared that they would take no part in the war, but it was
						not in Indian nature to remain long neutral when others were fighting, and some of the
						tribes assisted in besieging Fort Wayne and attacking Fort Harrison, and one or two of
						them took part in the Pigeon Roost massacre, and they refused to be present at a  council which the Americans called at Piqua, Ohio, all of
						which went to show that they were friendly to the British. The reason of this may have
						been that they believed that Great Britain would conquer in this war; for the Indians
						were very apt to take sides with the strongest party, and paid but little attention to
						the right or wrong of a dispute.
					To stop the hostile acts of these Indians, a force of about 600 men was sent against
						them; several of their villages which stood on the Mississinewa River in Miami County,
						were destroyed, a number of warriors were killed, and forty-two prisoners taken.
					The Delaware tribes, whose villages in Indiana were on White River, took no part in
						this war. By the advice of the Americans, they abandoned their towns and moved to Ohio,
						soon after the battle of Mississinewa, accompanied by a small band of Miamis, where they
						placed themselves under the protection of the United States. The Prophet, with the
						principal chiefs of the Miamis and their miserable and destitute band, joined the
						British at Detroit.
					At the approach of General Harrison and his force of men, in September, 1813, the
						British surrendered Detroit, and at Malden, where the battle of the Thames occurred
						October 5th, the Americans, led by General Harrison and General Shelby (then Governor of
						Kentucky), won a complete victory over the British.
					At this battle Tecumseh was killed, the Indian confederacy destroyed and Michigan
						regained. The Indian tribes in the vicinity of Detroit, finding themselves deserted by
						the British, began to sue for peace with the United States, and the settlers were for a
						time left in safety.
					There is but little more to tell about the Indians. On 
						October 3, 1818, a treaty was made at St. Mary's, Ohio, between the United States and
						the Delaware Indians. By this treaty the Indians sold to the United States all their
						lands in Central Indiana, south and west of the Miami Reservation and south and east of
						the Wabash River. The United States agreed to pay the Indians $4,000 annually, and to
						provide permanent homes for them west of the Mississippi River; the Indians, however,
						were given the right to retain the land for three years. According to this agreement, in
						the spring of 1821, the Indians in Central Indiana left for their western homes.
					The final removal of the Indian tribes occupying the Miami Reservation, or the country
						north of the Wabash, was effected by General John Tipton in 1838. In 1823, General
						Tipton was appointed agent for the Pottawattomie and Miami tribes in Northern Indiana,
						and was instrumental in securing from them valuable lands for public settlement.
					In the spring of 1825, a crime of dreadful cruelty was committed against some Indians
						near Pendleton, in Madison County, Indiana--a crime of such grave importance that the
						National Government interfered with the criminals. The eastern portion of the State was
						thinly settled and abounded in game, and a peaceful band of Seneca Indians, who lived on
						a reservation in Ohio, came into the State to hunt and trap. Two Indian men named Ludlow
						and Mingo, who belonged to this band, with three women and four children, camped not far
						from Pendleton during the winter, and collected a valuable stock of furs.
					One day they were all seated around their camp-fire, when five white men--Thomas
						Harper, Andrew Sawyer,  James Hudson, John Bridges and his
						son, John Bridges, Jr., came to them and told them that they were hunting for stray
						horses, and asked them to help find them. The Indians suspected no harm and readily
						consented. They divided into two companies and started through the forest, the Indians
						leading the way. They had not gone far when Harper, who was walking behind Ludlow, shot
						and killed him. Hudson, hearing the report of the gun, fired and killed Mingo. The
						murderers then returned to the camp and shot the women and children and robbed the camp.
						Harper escaped and was never heard of, but it was believed that the other Indians in the
						vicinity killed him. The other four men were arrested, heavily ironed and put in a log
						cabin at Pendleton, where they were guarded day and night.
					The other Indians who were hunting in that region, and the Miamis who lived in the
						Wabash country, were very angry and excited, and the settlers who lived along White
						River were greatly alarmed lest there should be an attack made upon them.
					John Johnson, of Ohio, was agent for the Senecas; William Conner, who lived near
						Noblesville, in Hamilton County, was agent for the Miamis. As soon as these men heard of
						the crime they went to the scene of the murder and managed to quiet the Indians by
						promising that the guilty men should be punished. They at once sent an account of the
						murder to the authorities at Washington, and a special term of court was held to try
						them. James Noble, the United States Senator from Indiana, led in the prosecution of the
						case, assisted by Calvin Fletcher, Philip Sweeter and Samuel Mason. The prisoners were
						defended by Charles H. Test, James Rariden, Martin M. Ray, William B. Morris and Lot
						Bloomfield.
					
					Although the court was held in a rude log cabin, it was conducted with grave dignity
						and formality. The jurymen were rough backwoods pioneers, dressed in homespun or
						buck-skin trousers and hunting-shirts, slouched hats and coarse brogans, but their
						demeanor was serious and dignified, and they listened with patient gravity from day to
						day to the bloody story as each case came up for trial, and gave the closest attention
						to the arguments on both sides. As each case was ended they brought in the verdict of
						"guilty." The younger Bridges was but sixteen years old, and on account of his youth and
						his testimony, which convicted the others, they recommended him to the mercy of the
						Governor.
					The trial was attended by many citizens and Indians, and the feeling was very bitter
						against the murderers. They were all sentenced to be hanged, and the three older men
						were executed. Young Bridges was pardoned by Governor James B. Ray while on the
						scaffold. The hanging, which was public, took place near the roadside at the foot of the
						hill, a few yards east of the railroad bridge at Pendleton. The people for miles around
						were present, and a number of Indians also witnessed the execution and expressed
						themselves as being satisfied with the result of the trial. This is the only instance
						recorded in this country in which white men were hanged for killing Indians.
				
				
				

				
					THE OLD STATE HOUSE AT CORYDON.
				

				

				
					CHAPTER XIII.

					Capital Removed to Corydon--Steps Toward Statehood.

					The war was concluded December 14, 1814, and peace restored between the United States
						and Great Britain. Now, let us see what Indiana had been doing all this time. We know
						how the settlers had suffered from the attacks of the Indians, and how the power of the
						savages had finally been broken and the tribes compelled to sue for peace.
					The Territorial Legislature did not meet during the first year of the war. Governor
						Harrison was away commanding the Army of the Northwest, and General Gibson, Secretary of
						the Territory, was performing the duties of the Governor. He called a meeting of the
						General Assembly for February 1, 1813.
					This session of the Legislature enacted thirty-two laws, the most important of which
						were for the purpose of improving the navigation of White River, organizing counties and
						locating county seats, fixing the time for holding courts in the Territory, opening and
						improving roads and highways, fixing the rate of taxes to be paid on land and other
						property, including slaves.
					This Legislature also passed a law to change the capital of the Territory from
						Vincennes to Corydon, in Harrison County, which was to take effect on the first day of
						May, 1813. This change was made because Corydon was at that time near the center of
						population, and it was easier for most of the people to reach than was Vincennes.
					The State House which was built at Corydon for the use 
						of the Legislature and the State officers, was completed in 1815. It was built of stone
						taken from the hills in that vicinity, and is forty feet square and two stories high.
						The lower story was used for the House of Representatives and the upper for the
						Legislative Council. The old State House is still standing, and is carefully preserved
						by the people of Harrison County.
					Although the people of Indiana Territory had the right to elect their Representatives
						to the Legislature by a majority vote of the "free-holders," or land-owners, of the
						Territory, the President of the United States held the power to appoint the Territorial
						Governors, Secretaries, judges of the Supreme Court and the Legislative Council.
					Before the Territorial Legislature was organized, the Governor and judges of the
						Territory adopted such laws of the original States as they believed to be suited to the
						needs and circumstances of the people, but, at the same time, Congress had the power to
						disapprove any law adopted, after which it could not be enforced.
					The privilege of holding office and voting for Territorial Legislators was not given to
						every citizen of suitable age, but certain "property qualifications" were required. Each
						member of the Legislative Council was required to own a "free-hold estate" of five
						hundred acres of land; every member of the House of Representatives must own "in his own
						right" two hundred acres of land, and only those citizens had the privilege of voting
						who, in addition to other requirements, owned at least fifty acres of land.
					The Governor appointed all the officers of the militia, judges and clerks of the lower
						courts of the Territory, justices of the peace, sheriffs, coroners, county treasurers,
						and  surveyors. He also had the power to divide the
						Territory into districts, apportion the members of the House of Representatives among
						the several counties, prevent the passage of any law, and call sessions of the
						Legislature or dismiss that body whenever he chose to do so.
					The citizens of the Territory were not satisfied with the limited power they possessed,
						although they did not complain that either of the Governors had been unjust or
						tyrannical; but they were unwilling that such unlimited authority should be given to one
						man, and they made frequent appeals to Congress to extend their "right of suffrage."
					In 1809 the qualified voters were given the privilege of electing the Territorial
						delegate to Congress. In 1811 the right to vote for members of the General Assembly and
						for Territorial delegates to Congress was given to every free white man in the Territory
						who was twenty-one years of age, had paid county and Territorial tax and had lived in
						the Territory one year.
					In 1814 this privilege was extended to every free white man who was a land-owner, who
						lived in the Territory and was of the proper age. The same year Congress authorized the
						Legislature to divide the Territory of Indiana into five districts, and the voters in
						each district had the privilege of electing a member of the Legislative Council. This
						division was made at Corydon, in June of the same year. There were then ten counties in
						the Territory.
					In 1813, Thomas Posey, a Senator from the State of Virginia and an officer in the
						Revolutionary War, was appointed Governor of Indiana Territory. Governor Posey arrived
						at Vincennes on the 25th day of May, and entered at once upon his duties. In December,
						the Legislature met at the  new capital at Corydon. On the
						6th day of the month, Governor Posey delivered his first message to that body. He
						expressed hopeful views concerning the result of the war with England, and called
						attention to the necessity of improving the militia and court system, and urged the
						advantage of having good roads and highways in as many directions through the Territory
						as possible. He also called attention to the appropriation made by Congress, in lands,
						for the purpose of establishing public schools, and urged the Representatives to make
						use of the appropriation. We shall have more to say by and by of this act of Congress to
						provide means for educating the children of Indiana.
					The Legislature adjourned in January. It had enacted a number of laws which were
						intended to improve the condition of the new government. One of these laws was to
						prevent dueling, and required all members of the Legislature and officers of the
						Territorial government to take the oath against dueling. This is not required of
						officers now, because the laws of the country forbid dueling, but in those days it
						frequently happened that when men quarreled, or felt that they had been wronged in any
						manner, they would challenge their enemy to fight a duel, and often one or both were
						killed or injured for life; but this, like many other bad customs, has passed away.
					From this time the condition of the settlements began to improve. The settlers lost
						their fear of the savages, and immigration began to increase. The Indians retired to the
						lands set apart for their use by the government, and the destitute tribes were furnished
						with provisions and ammunition to be used in hunting.
					In the spring of 1814, three commissioners were appointed  to hold a treaty of peace and friendship with the Indians of the northwest. General
						William Henry Harrison, General Lewis Cass and Governor Isaac Shelby, of Kentucky,
						composed the commission. Governor Shelby, however, did not serve.
					They called a great council to meet at Greenville, Ohio. The time was fixed for the
						20th day of June, but so many representatives of the tribes were absent that the council
						did not begin until the 8th of July; and after it began, the weather was so bad and so
						many of the Indians were drunk, and behaved so badly, that the business of the council
						was not finished until July 22d. It was a large and important gathering, and about four
						thousand Indians were present. At last a treaty of peace was agreed upon and signed by a
						number of chiefs from each tribe.
					Although the Indians agreed to be at peace with the Americans, small parties from
						different tribes continued to annoy the settlers for more than a year. The Americans
						were not entirely guiltless of wrong-doing. An Indian chief and his squaw made a visit
						to Fort Harrison. They were kindly received by the officers, but while they slept, a
						ranger fired at them and killed the squaw. The Indians of her tribe were very angry and
						excited, but the injured chief agreed to take a present to make up for his loss, and
						this seemed also to satisfy his friends.
					And now the time had come when another change was to be made in the government of
						Indiana. The settlers began to feel that they were entitled to be admitted into the
						Union of States, and for months the subject of forming a State Constitution had been
						uppermost in their minds. They had discussed it at their log-rollings, at their
						house-raisings, at  their corn-huskings, and at all their
						social gatherings and public meetings. They had met at the county seats and talked about
						it there. When they met each other on the road, going to or from mill, or on any
						business journey, they drew rein and, sitting upon their horses, discussed the important
						subject from every standpoint. When friend met friend, when neighbor met neighbor, the
						all-absorbing question was, "Shall Indiana become a State?"
					As early as 1811, the Territorial Legislature adopted a memorial, or petition, asking
						Congress to authorize the people of Indiana Territory to form a State Constitution. When
						the General Assembly met at Corydon, in December, 1815, Governor Posey was ill at his
						home in Jeffersonville and could not be present, but sent his message to be read before
						the two houses.
					The efforts of the members of this Legislature were mainly directed toward changing the
						Territorial government into that of a State. They, too, adopted a memorial, praying
						Congress to order an election to be held in the several counties in the Territory for
						the purpose of cboosing delegates to meet in convention, and there to determine, by
						majority vote, whether or not they should go into a State government; and that, if the
						majority of the people desired it, they should be given the power to form a State
						Constitution, or a frame of government; but if not so determined, they asked that they
						be given authority to provide for the election of representatives to meet in convention
						at some future time to form a Constitution. They also expressed the hope that the
						ordinance against slavery would be continued, for at this time the majority of the
						people in Indiana were opposed to negro slavery, and wished to keep it out of the
						Territory.
					
					When Congress passed the ordinance for the government of Indiana Territory, it provided
						that whenever there should be 60,000 inhabitants in the Territory it should be admitted
						into the Union. The Legislature authorized that the census of the Territory be taken,
						and the returns showed the number had reached 63,897. So Mr. Jennings, the Territorial
						delegate to Congress, laid the memorial before that body.
					It was placed in the hands of a committee, of which Mr. Jennings was chairman, and who,
						on January 5, 1816, reported to the House of Representatives of the United States a bill
						which gave the people of Indiana Territory the authority to form a State Constitution
						and a State government, and provided for the admission of such a State into the Union,
						on an equal footing with the original States.
					After being changed and amended in some particulars, this bill was passed by Congress,
						and on April 19, 1816, it was signed by James Madison, President of the United States,
						and became a law. This law was called an "Enabling Act," because it gave the delegates
						authority, or enabled them, to form a State Constitution and State government. On the
						13th day of the following month an election was held for the purpose of choosing the
						delegates to the Constitutional Convention, which was called to meet at Corydon.
				

				

				
					CHAPTER XIV.

					Indiana Becomes a State.

					In the year 1816 the delegates elected to form a State Constitution and State
						government met at the Territorial capital. It was the 10th of June; the spring air was
						sweet with the perfume of flowers, the day was bright with golden sunlight, and the
						silence of the forest was broken by the song of birds that flitted through the dark
						green branches of the trees.
					There was unusual excitement in the little town of Corydon, nestling among the circling
						hills of Southern Indiana, for important events were about to take place, and work was
						to be done which concerned thousands of people yet unborn. Many of the delegates had
						arrived the day or night before, and had taken lodging in the little hotel,* * or tavern, as it was called, of
						which the town boasted. They had traveled long distances, over almost impassable roads,
						through forests and low-lands, deep in mud and mire; for even in June the "blazed"
						trails and bridle-paths were in a condition which made traveling indeed a hardship.
					Some of them had arrived at nightfall, others late in the night, weary, worn and
						splashed with mud, the long leathern leggins, which reached above the knees, being the
						only protection to their clothing.
					Leather pouches, called "saddle-bags," were thrown across their saddles, and contained
						their extra clothing, papers, books and other necessary things. The saddle-bags
							
						**This hotel was built in
							1809, and was constructed out of native limestone. It is situated about a mile east of
							Corydon, and is still standing.
						 were an important article in the outfit of a traveler.
						They consisted of a broad strap of leather, on each end of which was a bag, or large
						pocket, with a flap, or lid, which could be strapped down, and kept the contents dry and
						protected them from mud and dust. There were many other strangers in the little city
						besides the delegates, for everybody was interested in the important work which was to
						be done, and the tavern and boarding-houses were doing ia thriving business.
					The bell on the old stone State House rang out the hour appointed for the assembling of
						the delegates. Many were already in their places, in the lower room, where the
						convention was held; others came in as the last tones of the bell died away, while a few
						belated ones arrived after the convention had been called to order.
					They were a grave, serious body of men--these fathers of our Constitution--and would be
						a strange-looking company if assembled in our legislative halls to-day, so greatly have
						manners and dress changed since Indiana became a State. They were not much given to
						fashion, except the fashion of the backwoodsmen, and were as rugged and rough in
						appearance as the country they represented. Many of them were dressed in homespun,
						hand-woven clothing, made by the pioneer wife and mother without the aid of sewing
						machine, and cut by rules unknown to the tailors of to-day, for fit and style were a
						second consideration, warmth and wearing qualities being first. Some of them wore the
						buck-skin trousers and coon-skin cap of the pioneer, a garb well suited to the exposures
						they constantly endured, and heavy, high-topped boots covered their feet and lower
						limbs.
					But rough as they may have been in appearance, they  were
						men of common sense, firm integrity sand honest purpose. Some of them became illustrious
						in the early history of Indiana, and one of them, Frederick Rapp, won world-wide fame by
						founding the communistic settlement at New Harmony, of which we will speak later, and
						one became the first Governor of Indiana.
					Each member of the convention produced a certificate of his election from the sheriff
						of his county, showing that he had been elected to serve as delegate to the convention,
						and took the oath of fidelity to the United States, and an oath to discharge faithfully
						the duties of the office. They then took their seats upon the plain wooden benches, and
						the first Constitutional Convention of Indiana was formally opened. Jonathan Jennings
						was chosen President of the convention; William Hendricks was elected Secretary.
					The first business of the convention was to consider and to determine the question as
						to whether a State government should be formed. The delegates, coming directly from the
						people, were well informed of their wishes, and voted accordingly. A ballot was taken,
						which showed that a large majority favored a State Constitution.
					This important question being settled, the delegates next proceeded to frame a
						Constitution for the new State. This occupied their attention until June 29th, at which
						time the convention closed. The room in which the convention was held was small and very
						much crowded, and as the weather became warm, seats were arranged out of doors, under
						the spreading branches of a large elm tree, and many of the sessions were held there.
						The tree is still standing, and is called the "Constitutional Elm."
					Mr, Dillon, in his History of Indiana, says: "The convention  that formed the first Constitution of the State of Indiana was composed,
						mainly, of clear-headed, unpretending men of common sense, whose patriotism was
						unquestionable, and whose morals were fair. Their familiarity with the theories of the
						American Independence, their Territorial experience under the provisions of 1787, and
						their knowledge of the principles of the Constitution of the United States were
						sufficient, when combined, to lighten materially their labors in the great work of
						forming a Constitution for a new State.
					"In the clearness and conciseness of its style, in the comprehensive and just
						provisions which it made for the maintenance of civil and religious liberty, in its
						mandates which were designed to protect the rights of the people, collectively and
						individually, and to provide for the public welfare, the Constitution which was formed
						for Indiana in 1816 was not inferior to any of the State Constitutions which were in
						existence at that time."
					The new Constitution required that the Governor and all other officers should continue
						to perform the duties of their offices until officers should be elected under authority
						of the State government. Jonathan Jennings, President of the convention, was authorized
						to instruct the sheriffs of the counties of Indiana to hold elections for the purpose cf
						electing a Governor, Lieutenant-Governor, a Representative to the United States
						Congress, members of the General Assembly, and sheriffs and coroners of counties.
					At this election Jonathan Jennings was chosen Governor of Indiana. He received 5,211
						votes, against 3,934 given to Thomas Posey, who was the last Territorial Governor.
						Christopher Harrison, of Washington County, was elected 
						Lieutenant-Governor, and William Hendricks was elected Representative to Congress.
					The counties organized before Indiana became a State were: Clark, Daviess, Dearborn,
						Franklin, Gibson, Harrison, Jackson, Jefferson, Jennings, Orange, Perry, Pike, Posey,
						Sullivan, Switzerland, Warrick, Washington and Wayne. The boundaries of these counties
						were not the same that they are now; all of them, except, perhaps, Switzerland, have
						since been divided to form other counties.
					On December 11, 1816, James Madison, President of the United States, signed the
						resolution of Congress which formally admitted Indiana into the sisterhood of
						States.
					The first session of the General Assembly of the State of Indiana was held at Corydon,
						November 4, 1816. Isaac Blackford was elected Speaker of the House, and John Paul was
						chosen President of the Senate. The work of this Assembly was greater than that of
						former Legislatures. The great machinery of the new State was to be put in motion; the
						settlements were rapidly increasing in size and numbers, and laws must be made to meet
						their needs.
					The Constitution provided that all the State officers except the Governor and
						Lieutenant-Governor must be elected by the General Assembly, and those elected by this
						Legislature were: Secretary of State, Robert A. New; Auditor of State, William H. Lilly;
						Treasurer of State, Daniel S. Lane. James Noble and Waller Taylor were elected to the
						United States Senate. At this time a land office for the disposal of public lands was
						located at Brookville, in Franklin County, which was then one of the most important
						towns in the State.
				

				

				
					CHAPTER XV.

					State Government--Duties of Officers.

					Perhaps it would be well at this time to explain what a State Constitution is, and to
						tell why it is necessary that States should have Constitutions.
					For the government of the people of a country, or a State, or a Territory, there must
						be laws to regulate their conduct, prevent crime, and secure the personal and property
						rights of individuals. For all such laws there must be a beginning, or foundation, or
						starting point; and that is just what a Constitution of a country or a State is--the
						foundation, or frame, upon which the laws are constructed.
					There are two kinds of laws; one made by the people themselves; the other made by men
						chosen by the people to act for them. To make the first class of laws, the people elect
						a number of men to meet and prepare a code of laws, plainly written out. The meeting of
						these men is called a convention, and the written laws they prepare are called a
						constitution, and are generally submitted directly to the people for their adoption or
						rejection.
					After they have had time to examine thoroughly and discuss the proposed laws, an
						election is held, and all legal voters vote "for" or "against the Constitution." If the
						majority of the voters approve, it becomes a law. It is then the Constitution of the
						State. All future laws must be based upon it. It describes the frame-work of the
						government. It tells what officers shall be elected, explains how they shall be elected,
						defines their duties and powers, and defines and declares the rights of the people.
					
					It comes directly from the people, and no Legislature, no body of men however powerful,
						can alter or change it. It is the people's law, and they alone can change it in a manner
						described in the Constitution itself. A law which does not harmonize with it is
						"unconstitutional," and cannot be enforced. To illustrate: The Constitution of Indiana
						declares that the Governor shall be elected for a term of four years. If the Legislature
						should make a law declaring that he should be elected for five years, it would be
						unconstitutional, because it would not agree or harmonize with the Constitution, and it
						would be of no force.
					It would be impossible for the people to vote on all matters, or to make all the laws
						necessary for their government; so the Constitution provides that they may choose
						representatives to make laws for them. This is the second kind of law-making. Laws made
						by representatives elected by the people are called statutes, and they must conform to,
						or agree with the Constitution. The representatives of the people may change the
						statutes, but they cannot change the Constitution.
					The Constitution and statutes of a State must not conflict, or disagree with the
						Constitution of the United States, which is the supreme law of the land. All laws must
						harmonize with it; each must agree with the other, and the whole forms a perfect system
						of laws.
					The Constitution of a State deals only with prominent matters. It establishes
						principles upon which present and future laws are based, leaving the details to the
						Legislature. It outlines the government of the State, separates it into different
						departments, declares what officers shall have charge of each department, and defines
						the duties of each one of them.
					
					After the Constitution and laws of a State are made, they must be enforced before they
						are of any use. It becomes necessary, therefore, to select men to enforce, or execute
						them. The body of officers elected for this purpose constitute an important part of the
						government. As men they may not be superior to the average citizen, but as
						representatives of the State they are entitled to that respect and obedience which all
						owe to the State government. If an officer does not properly conduct himself, he may be
						removed from office.
					In organizing the State, three separate departments, or branches of government, are
						formed, which, taken together, make what we call a system of government. They are called
						the Legislative Department, the Executive Department, and the Judicial Department.
					The Legislative Department.--The General Assembly, or law-making body, forms the
						Legislative Department. It is composed of two branches, or houses, called the Senate and
						the House of Representatives.
					The Constitution of Indiana provides that there shall not be more than fifty members of
						the Senate, called Senators, and not more than one hundred members of the house of
						Representatives, called Representatives. The Lieutenant-Governor presides over the
						Senate, while the House of Representatives is presided over by a "Speaker," elected by
						its members. Both branches elect their clerks and such other officers as are needed.
					The Executive Department.--The Governor of the State is at the head of the Executive
						Department. He is the highest officer in the State, and is elected to serve for a term
						of four years. It is his duty to see that the laws are executed;  that peace is maintained, and the rights of individuals protected. All bills
						passed by the Legislature are sent to him for his signature before they become laws. He
						has the power to "veto," or refuse to sign, a bill, which prevents it from becoming a
						law, unless the two branches of the Legislature pass it over his veto, which they may do
						by the same number of votes in each house that were required for its original passage.
						(In Congress it requires a two-thirds vote to pass a bill over the President's
						veto.)
					The Governor is Commander-in-Chief of the militia, or State troops, and can call them
						into service whenever he considers it necessary in order to prevent disorder or to
						enforce the law. He appoints all officers of the militia and issues all orders for their
						employment, through the Adjutant-General, whom he also appoints. He has power to pardon
						criminals, except those guilty of treason or impeachment. He can pardon unconditionally
						or in part; that is, he can pardon on condition that the criminal conducts himself
						properly, and can cause him to be returned to prison to serve out his sentence in case
						he is guilty of improper conduct, or of violating the law.
					The Legislature gives the Governor power to make certain appointments, such as trustees
						of the benevolent and penal institutions and other boards and commissioners. When a
						vacancy occurs in any State office, the Governor fills it by appointment. This includes
						judges of the courts and prosecuting attorneys, but not vacancies in the Legislature; he
						must order an election to fill such vacancies. All persons appointed to fill vacancies
						continue in office until the next general election. The Governor may call special
						sessions of the Legislature at any time, and under certain circumstances he may change
						its place of meeting.
					
					In case the Governor should die or resign his office, the Lieutenant-Governor assumes
						the duties of Governor, and is called "Acting Governor." The Executive Department is
						divided to form the Administrative Department. To this the Secretary, Auditor and
						Treasurer of State and other officers belong.
					The Judiciary Department.--The Judiciary Department refers to the courts, which are
						divided into two general classes, called the Supreme and the Circuit Courts.
					The Secretary of State has charge of the great seal of the State, which he affixes to
						all official papers and documents which require the signature of the Governor. He
						superintends the printing of laws made by the Legislature, and performs various other
						duties.
					The Auditor of State is keeper and examiner of the public accounts, and money is paid
						out of the State Treasury only through his orders. He also has charge of the land
						records of the State. All banking and insurance companies in the State (except National
						Banks) must report to him, and he may at any time order an examination of the business
						of such institutions, and may take them into his custody if he has reasons to believe
						them insolvent.
					The State Treasurer keeps the public funds, or the money belonging to the State, and is
						responsible for its safety. No money can be drawn from the State Treasury for any
						purpose unless provision has been made for it by law, and the State Treasurer can only
						pay out money on warrants, or orders, drawn by the Auditor of State in compliance with
						the law. The Treasurer must publish monthly reports of the different funds in his
						keeping.
					Besides the officers elected under the Constitution, there  are others whose offices are created by law, who are also called State officers; they
						are the Attorney-General, State Geologist, State Librarian, Superintendent of Public
						Instruction, Superintendent of Statistics, or Statistician, Clerk of the Supreme Court,
						and Reporter of Decisions.
					The Attorney-General is the State's lawyer. All lawsuits in which the State is
						interested are conducted by him. He also prosecutes all criminals whose cases are
						brought before the Supreme Court, and collects certain moneys due the State. He gives
						his opinion on points of law in which the State is interested. The Governor, Senate and
						House of Representatives may apply to him for his opinion on all points of law. He is
						elected every two years, and has his office in the State House.
					The State Superintendent of Public Instruction is elected every two years. He has a
						general supervision over the public schools and educational affairs of the State, and
						makes an annual report of their condition, to the Governor or General Assembly. His
						office is also in the State House.
					The Clerk of the Supreme Court keeps the records of the Supreme Court. He is elected by
						the voters of the State for a term of four years.
					The Reporter of Decisions publishes the decisions of the Supreme Court.
					The State Geologist is an officer skilled in the science of geology--that is, the
						science which treats of the formation of the earth, the minerals, soil, etc. He has
						charge of the geological surveys of the State and has supervision over the mines, the
						sale of petroleum and the use of the natural gas supply. He reports to the Governor each
						year the discoveries made in the State concerning the soil, minerals and other  substances. His discoveries are often very useful to
						agriculture, manufactories and the mechanical arts. The State Geologist also has charge
						of the State Museum, or collection of geological specimens, Indian relics and other
						curiosities. He is elected for four years, and his office is in the State House.
					The State Statistician collects all information concerning agriculture, mining,
						education, manufacture, commerce and other industries; he also gathers facts concerning
						life, death and marriage and many other interesting things. The work of this officer is
						often very valuable. He has an office in the State House and is elected every four
						years.
					The State Librarian has charge of the State Library, and is elected every two years by
						the State Board of Education. He attends to the purchase of books for the library, which
						is situated in the State House and consists of several thousand volumes. The Librarian
						sees that they are properly taken care of and that the rules which govern the library
						are not violated.
					In addition to these officers, laws have been made creating special boards and
						commissions, each with special work to perform. Among these are the Board of State
						Charities, the State Board of Education, State Board of Health, State Fish Commission
						and State Tax Commission.
					The Board of State Charities is composed of four members, appointed by the Governor,
						who himself acts as President, and a secretary elected by the board. The work of this
						board is in connection with the charities of the State; it has authority to examine all
						benevolent and penal institutions, jails, reformatories, orphans' homes, poor asylums,
						etc., and through the secretary of the board makes a report  of the condition of each, the amount of money expended for its support, and is often
						able to make valuable suggestions concerning their management.
					The State Board of Education is composed of the Governor, State Superintendent of
						Public Instruction, the Presidents of the State University, State Normal School, Purdue
						University and the Superintendents of the Public Schools in the three largest cities in
						the State. The Legislature of 1899 added to the board three other members, two of whom
						shall be County Superintendents of Schools.
					The duties of this board are to grant special certificates to teachers, to select the
						text-books to be used in the public schools and look after the general interests of the
						educational affairs of the State. This board also elects the State Librarian.
					The State Board of Health is composed of five members, four of whom are chosen by the
						Governor, Secretary and Auditor of State; the fifth member is elected by the four
						appointed members. The duties of this board are to exercise a general supervision over
						the health conditions of the State and investigate the causes of disease. It has power
						to regulate the drainage, heating and ventilation of all public buildings, and has
						authority to take measures to prevent the spread of contagious diseases.
					The Fish Commissioner is appointed by the Governor. He examines the lakes and streams
						of Indiana to see if they can be made to produce more fish, and to take measures to
						prevent unnecessary destruction of the fish already in them.
					The State Tax Commission is composed of the Governor, Secretary and Auditor of State
						and two Commissioners appointed by the Governor. The duty of this board is to regulate
						the taxes of the State, as is elsewhere explained.
					
					For greater convenience in government, the State is divided into counties, each with a
						seat of local government, called a county seat. Here the court house and county jail are
						located and all county business transacted. Each county has control of its own affairs,
						elects its own officers, levies and collects its taxes, and pays a certain amount into
						the State treasury for the expense of the State government. The officers of a county
						are: Board of County Commissionors, Sheriff, Auditor, Clerk of the Court, Treasurer and
						Recorder.
					The affairs of a county are directly under the management of a Board of County
						Commissioners, who meet at stated periods each year. This board has charge of the public
						buildings of the county; it erects the bridges, constructs the roads, grants certain
						licenses, and examines all claims against the county. It also has charge of the poor and
						infirm who have become county charges. This is one of the most important offices in the
						State, and one which comes nearest to the people's interests. The Commissioners are the
						agents of the people and are responsible to them for the management of the public
						affairs.
					The Sheriff is the executive officer of the courts and enforces its orders. It is also
						his duty to suppress riots, etc.
					The Auditor examines all bills against the county and issues all orders on the
						Treasurer for their payment. He is to the county as the State Auditor is to the
						State.
					The Clerk of the Court keeps the court records and issues to the Sheriff all orders
						from the court. He also issues marriage and other licenses.
					The Treasurer keeps all the money belonging to the county and is responsible for its
						safety. He collects the taxes  and may sell the property
						of those who refuse to pay their portion of the assessment. On order, or warrant, of the
						County Auditor, he pays to the State Treasurer the money due the State from the
						collection of county taxes, and pays such other orders as are properly drawn.
					The Recorder keeps a record of all deeds and mortgages made on lands and other property
						in the county, and keeps a perfect record of titles to land within the county.
					A County Superintendent of Public Schools, who is elected by the Township Trustees, has
						supervision over the public schools of the county.
					For further convenience in government, the counties are divided into townships, and a
						trustee elected in each township, who manages its affairs.
					The Township Trustee superintends the construction of roads and bridges in his
						township, erects the school buildings and keeps them in repair, employs the teachers and
						looks after the poor in his township. He also inspects the elections held in the
						precinct in which he lives, and, with the assistance of the Board of County
						Commissioners, and the approval of the Township Advisory Board, fixes the tax on
						property in his township for school and road purposes. He is to the township as the
						Board of Commissioners is to the county.
					The Legislature of 1899 created County and Township Advisory Boards, consisting of
						several men elected by the people. To this board the County Commissioners and Township
						Trustees must submit estimates of the money needed for expenditures, both in the county
						and townships. No money can be raised by taxation, nor can it be expended, without the
						approval of these Advisory Boards.
					
					In every county there is an asylum for the poor, where those who are unable to work and
						have no means of support are cared for at the public expense.
					County Commissioners are elected for a term of three years, Sheriffs and Treasurers for
						two years, Auditors, Clerks and Recorders for four years. All State and County officers
						receive a salary for their services.
					The first county organized in Indiana was Knox County, in the year 1790; the last was
						Howard County, in 1846. Knox County embraced a large tract of land in the western part
						of the State, and out of it about thirty counties have been formed. The territory called
						the "New Purchase," which lay in the southeastern part of the State, was first divided
						into Wabash and Delaware Counties. Out of this territory about twenty-seven counties
						were formed.
					Counties were organized by "acts," or laws made by the Legislature. Sometimes the
						settlers of a certain locality made application to the Legislature for a charter,
						authorizing them to become a separate and independent county. A paper would be prepared,
						stating their wishes and signed by all those who desired a new county organization. This
						was called a petition.
					The Legislature receiving such a petition would cause the case to be investigated, and
						if it seemed best to grant the request, would pass an act, or law, to organize the
						county. Sometimes the Legislators themselves considered it best for the government of
						the people to divide certain sections of land into counties, and would make laws to that
						effect. The boundary lines would be defined, a name chosen for the new county, and
						commissioners appointed to fix the county seat, or "seat of justice," as it was
						sometimes called, and a circuit  court established. The
						Governor appointed a Sheriff, who ordered elections to be held by the "qualified" voters
						of the county for the purpose of choosing the County Commissioners and other necessary
						officers. The Sheriff issued certificates of election to the new officers, as was the
						law.
					The counties in Indiana were named by the Legislature, many of them in honor of the
						statesmen, heroes and scholars of that period. Of the ninety-two counties in the State,
						more than forty are named for military officers and soldiers; seven are named for
						Presidents of the United States, three for Indiana Governors and two for Indian
							tribes.**
				

				

				
					CHAPTER XVI.

					Hardships of Pioneer Life.

					And now that Indiana has become a State, let us again pause and take a backward glance
						over the years since the first white men explored the territory.
					For years the country was ruled by the king of France, and then by the king of England.
						It was a part of Louisiana, and then a part of Canada, and through the efforts of George
						Rogers Clark and a few brave Virginians, it was captured from the hands of the British,
						and became a part of the State of Virginia. It was afterward ceded to the United States
						as a part of the great Northwestern Territory, which in time was divided to form the
						Territory of Indiana; this was again divided to form the Territory of Michigan. It was
						organized into the Indiana Territory, and again divided **See Appendix A.
						
						
							PIONEER'S CABIN
						
						
						 to form the Territory of Illinois; and finally, in the
						year of our Lord, one thousand eight hundred and sixteen, became, and still remains the
						State of Indiana.
					We have studied the history of our country from the time when the forests were infested
						with wild, roving tribes of savage men; we have traced their footsteps through gloomy
						glens, and glided with them down swift, dark streams; we have followed them across wide
						prairies, and crept behind them as they stealthily tracked the wild game of the
						wilderness; we have seen their dark faces flush with anger at the approach of the white
						men, and their tomahawks raised above the heads of men, women and children; we have seen
						the soil of our fair State stained with the blood of innocent victims, and have heard
						their shrieks rend the silent air. We have heard the bark of the house-dog in the still
						night, warning the settlers of the approach of murderous bands, and have seen the dark
						forests lighted by the flames of burning homes, and whole families and settlements swept
						away. We have seen the brave Virginia troops plod through the swamps of southern
						Illinois, to capture the British forts, and place the frontier settlements under the
						protection of the State of Virgina; we have waded with them through the water-covered
						lowlands, and with them swam swift, swollen streams; with them we have suffered hunger,
						cold and exposure, and with them rejoiced to see the "cross of St. George" pulled down,
						and our own glorious Stars and Stripes float over captured Vincennes. We have seen the
						British driven from the country and a free government established. We have followed
						Pontiac, Tecumseh and the Prophet through their wild plans, to final defeat and ruin. We
						have heard the tread of armed men,  and gone with St.
						Clair, General Harrison and "Mad Anthony Wayne," and witnessed the result of their
						expeditions. We have been present at treaties with foreign nations, and at councils with
						wild tribes of Indians. We have sat in the Territorial Legislature at Vincennes and
						Corydon, and listened to debates on negro slavery, on Indian warfare and the propriety
						of State government. We have listened with breathless interest to pioneer statesmen, as
						they eloquently expressed their common-sense views concerning the laws which should
						govern the people. We have noted their manner, their clothing, their habits, and have
						been amazed that amid such rugged surroundings, they could build so sure a foundation
						for so great a State.
					And now we have seen these things pass away. The red men are a vanquished race--a few
						wretched savages scattered about, and no longer the kings of the forests. The power of
						the British is broken, the nations from over the sea acknowledge our ability to take
						care of ourselves, and Indiana is a State.
					Would it not be well at this time, to inquire who the men and women were who came to
						this wild and rugged country to make homes for themselves and to plant civilization
						where wild lawlessness reigned? Shall we not study their habits, their dress, their
						manner of living and conducting themselves? Governor Harrison said that this is one of
						the "fairest portions of the globe." We know it now to be one of the greatest States in
						the Union; surely the people who came to change the wilderness into a garden, are worthy
						of our study and attention.
					At the time Indiana became a State, there were perhaps not more than 64,000
						inhabitants, in straggling settlements,  throughout the
						southern part of the Territory. They had come from almost every State in the Union, but
						chiefly from Pennsylvania, Virginia and other Southern States. They were mostly very
						poor people, but were honest, and as hardy and rugged as the rough country in which they
						lived.
					Some of them emigrated from their old homes in strong wagons drawn by horses or oxen.
						They placed their families and all their worldly goods in this car of the wilderness,
						and bidding their friends good-bye, bravely turned to face hardships and danger,
						sometimes disease and death.
					The journey from civilization to the forest home was difficult and dangerous. The Ohio
						River was the great thoroughfare of many of the immigrants. It was called the "Beautiful
						River," and it deserved the title. It was then as nature had made it, with nothing to
						mar its beauty but a few scattering villages. The grand old forests through which it
						flowed, had not been touched by the woodman's ax, which afterward destroyed them, but
						down to the brink of its waters grew magnificent trees, tangled vines, and brilliantly
						colored flowers, which shut out from view everything but the sky, the river and their
						own grandeur and loveliness.
					The emigrant would load his family and goods on a flatboat, and float with the current
						to some point where he desired to land. The journey down the Ohio was full of danger.
						The river was constantly watched by roving bands of Indians, and many an unfortunate
						family met death along its borders. It has been said that there is scarcely a mile from
						Pittsburg to the Ohio Falls that has not at some time been the scene of deadly
						conflict.
					After leaving the river, it took days and weeks to reach 
						the spot which the immigrants were seeking. Roads were unknown, and every foot of the
						way must be carved out of the forest which stood like a solid wall before them.
					It was a wonderful growth of trees that made those grand old forests. Such mighty oaks,
						broad, spreading beeches, giant ashes, maples and poplars are not found on any continent
						but ours. The shade was so dense that the noonday sun could scarcely pierce it on the
						brightest summer days. The trees that had fallen were almost as numerous as those
						standing, and were in all stages of decay. Some of them had newly fallen; some were sunk
						half their depth in the soft, damp soil; some were lying side by side, others had fallen
						across each other in great tangled heaps; through and over them grew thickets of small
						trees, or saplings, spice-wood and briars, all in a confused mass through which a
						horseman, or even one on foot, could scarcely clamber. Think, then, what a task it must
						have been to cut through this wilderness, a road wide enough to allow horses and wagon
						to pass. Many miles of the distance must be cut through such barriers as these.
						Sometimes, on higher ground, the thickets and undergrowth were not so dense, and only
						the trees--those great, giant trees--must be cut away before the wagons could pass.
					The immigrant pushed on, however, cutting his road through the forest, and "blazing"
						the way as he went--that is, he cut a portion of the bark from the trees on either side,
						as a mark to show the way. This blazed roadway was a guide to the next immigrant who
						came that way. In some places the ground was so wet and swampy, that he was obliged to
						cut down small trees, or saplings, as they were called, and place them side by side
						across the road, to keep  the horses and wagon from
						sinking in the mire. These were called "corduroy" roads, and very rough and
						uncomfortable ones they were to travel.
					There were no bridges, and when an unknown stream was reached, before risking his
						family and property in crossing, the pioneer would unhitch a horse from the wagon, and
						ride through the water on horseback, measuring its depth, and selecting the safest place
						for crossing. By marking the spot, the next traveler was saved this trouble. Thus did
						the pioneers make each step easier for those who came after them.
					At night, the family slept in the woods, miles and miles away from any human being, and
						often exposed to dangers from Indians, and from panthers, wolves and other wild animals.
						By keeping his camp-fire burning brightly, and with his trusty rifle by his side, the
						pioneer was able to keep the wild beasts away; he was indeed fortunate if his fire did
						not attract the attention of the wild men.
					Days and weeks passed in this tiresome manner. Sometimes a little child would sicken on
						the way. The parents would watch it with anxious care, and do all in their power to
						relieve its suffering. In agony they would see the little life pass away, with no kind
						friends to comfort them. With almost broken hearts they would dig a shallow grave in the
						dark forest, and tenderly place the little form in the ground and cover it from their
						sight. They would linger awhile about the little mound, and in tears and sadness leave
						it to nature's care, and journey on. There was little time for grief.
					Under such difficulties, and through such dangers, the pioneer men and women of Indiana
						reached the place they  were seeking. There was scarcely a
						mile of the way but had its story--ofttimes its tragedy.
					The first act, after arriving at the place they wished to make their home, was to
						select a spot for a house, which was usually near some spring, or stream of water. Here
						the ground was quickly cleared by cutting away the trees and brush, and the settler's
						cabin built from trees felled for the purpose. The logs were cut the proper length, left
						round, and often with the bark upon them. They were notched down at the ends, and placed
						one upon the other, with the notches fitting into each other, to hold them secure. When
						the walls were built, the roof was covered with clap-boards, or long boards split from
						logs, and fastened down with poles and wooden pins. A fireplace and chimney were made of
						sticks and mud; the floor was made of thick wooden slabs called "puncheons." Sometimes,
						when the season was late, the ground served as a floor until the settler had planted his
						crop.
					A small opening for a window was made by cutting away a portion of a log; this was left
						open in summer, and in winter greased paper was pasted over it, which let in the light
						and kept out the cold. An opening was left for the door, which was made of heavy boards,
						split from logs, and fastened together with wooden pegs, and hung on wooden hinges. It
						was fastened by a wooden latch, which was raised by a leather string; by drawing the
						string inside, the door was fastened and could not be opened from the outside. The space
						between the logs was filled with stiff mud, or mortar, which kept out the cold in
						winter. Not a nail was used in the entire building.
					Only such articles as could be made by the settler himself  were used to furnish this little home in the forest. Very little could be brought in
						the wagon, which must carry the family, a few dishes, clothing, bedding, and cooking
						utensils, with provisions enough to last until more could be raised. As for buying
						furniture, that was not to be thought of--first, because nothing of the kind could be
						found in the wilderness, and second, because the settler had but little, if any money;
						besides, the land must be paid for--a small price to be sure, but it often taxed him to
						the utmost to pay the small sum required by the government. So, with the tools he
						brought with him--an ax, a saw, and a hammer--the pioneer made the, furniture for his
						cabin, which was to be kitchen, parlor, dining-room and bed-room all in one.
					The cooking was done at the open fireplace; beds were made by driving pegs into the
						wall and placing boards aoross them; upon this, ticks filled with leaves, or straw, if
						they could get it, were placed, softened, perhaps, by a feather-bed from the old home;
						over this were spread the blankets, quilts, etc., which they also brought with them. A
						rough table was made of boards split from logs: a shelf or two was fastened to the wall,
						upon which were placed the dishes, which were often of pewter or tin; the dishes, plates
						and spoons were of pewter; the cups, pans and coffee-pot of tin. After the settlements
						were formed, there was often great rivalry among the housekeepers, in keeping tin and
						pewter ware bright and floors and tables clean and white.
					Chairs or stools were made of slabs, or puncheons, to which were fastened wooden legs;
						on two forked sticks over the door hung the settler's rifle, while the family wearing
						apparel ornamented the walls. They had but few cooking vessels--a "dutch oven," or deep
						skillet with an iron cover,  a few pans, and a kettle or
						two--that was all; a chest or box brought from the old home completed the furniture. In
						homes like this, the first settlers in Indiana lived. In homes like this their children
						were born and reared, and in such a home, in southern Indiana, the immortal Abraham
						Lincoln spent the early years of his life.
					No candles or lamps had these early settlers, but the little cabin was lighted by the
						cheerful blaze from the great open fireplace. By and by they made candles by wrapping a
						strip of linen or cotton cloth around a stick ten or twelve inches long, and covering it
						with tallow pressed on with the hands. These gave lights for several nights. Lamps were
						made by scraping half a turnip down to the rind, placing a stick three inches long in
						the center, so it would stand upright, wrapping a piece of cloth around it, and pouring
						melted lard, bear's grease, or deer's tallow into the turnip rind until it was full; it
						was then ready for use. Such lights as these would be poor substitutes for the brilliant
						illuminations of the present time, but by such lights as these, on long winter evenings,
						the women spun the thread and wove the "linsey-woolsey" which, by the same light, they
						afterward made into clothing for the family.
					To clear a little patch of ground for corn and vegetables was the next thing to be done
						after the cabin was built. This was not an easy task, for the timber was heavy and the
						green logs and brush not easily burned or removed. The first fields were imperfectly
						cleared, but on them were raised a little corn, a few pumpkins and potatoes for
						immediate use.
					It was a hard winter's work to clear three or four acres of ground, and prepare it for
						planting in the spring. The  trees must not only be cut
						down, but they must be burned; the decayed logs and brush must also be collected and
						burned to be out of the way of the plow. The settler's wife and children often assisted
						in the work of clearing the ground, as they afterward did at the plow and in the corn
						and wheat harvest. At the proper season, when the sap, or liquid flow, which is the
						blood of the trees, was circulating through trunk and branches, the settler went to the
						ground he wished to clear, and with his ax chopped the bark around each tree. This
						stopped the circulation of this life-giving fluid, and caused the trees tb die and
						decay. Such a spot of ground was called a "deadening." The settler left the trees until
						such a time as he could clear the ground. Here they stood, those tall dead trees,
						stretching out their bare, leafless branches in strange contrast to the bright green
						foliage of the living trees about them.
					Many of these deadened trees fell of their own accord, others were chopped or burned
						down. The logs were cut, or burned in pieces ten or twelve feet long, and then rolled
						together in heaps, the brush piled upon them, and all burned together. The light from
						these "clearings" could be seen for some distance, and sent strange shadows dancing
						through the trees at night. It often took days to burn these "log-heaps," and morning
						and evening the settler must bring the burnt ends of the logs together with a long pole,
						or "hand-spike." This was called "righting up the log-heaps." After the settlements were
						formed, the pioneers would assist each other in clearing the ground.
					In the spring, the newly cleared ground was plowed, and the seeds planted, but the work
						was by no means done. There was always danger of the seeds being taken up by  birds and squirrels, for the fields were surrounded by
						forests which were full of pests, and it was necessary to keep constant watch over them,
						or the labor of planting would be lost. In the fall, while the crop was maturing, there
						was equal danger from raccoons, and other thieves of the woods. It was a hard, difficult
						life that these settlers lived, shut away from the world and all communication with
						friends--dependent upon their own resources for the means of living and the necessities
						of life; it was a continuous battle against nature, wild animals and wild men, for not
						until after Indiana became a State was all fear from prowling savages removed, and we
						have seen how, in earlier times, many poor families suffered at their hands before their
						power was finally broken.
					There were no saw-mills, no grist-mills, no stores or shops in the country. The grain,
						when ripened, was grated, or pounded into meal for bread. Not only must the settlers
						spin, weave and make their own clothing, but they must raise the material as well. They
						grew flax and spun it into thread, which they wove into a kind of coarse cloth for
						summer wear. They raised sheep, and spun the wool into thread, which they knit into
						stockings and wove into cloth for winter. They colored the thread or the cloth with the
						bark from trees. They made the soap with which they washed their clothing. In fact, they
						did every kind of work and supplied all their own necessities.
					Their food was procured in different ways. The wild game of the forest furnished the
						meat; deer, bear, wild-hog, turkey and squirrel were to be found in abundance; corn,
						wheat and vegetables were raised on the ground they cleared; wild fruits--grapes, plums,
						crab-apples, paw-paws,  wild cherries and many varieties
						of berries--were found in the woods. Honey, too, was often found in large quantities,
						and hunting bee-trees was a profitable business for leisure hours. Coffee was made of
						parched wheat or corn; tea was made from spice-wood, sassafras, and different kinds of
						herbs which gerw in the woods.
					No physicians could be had, however much they were wanted. The pioneer and his wife
						were their own doctors, and in sickness they used such simple remedies as they knew, and
						made medicines of the herbs that were known to have healing qualities. One common remedy
						in the early days was to bleed the patient; this was done for the healing of all
						diseases.
					There were no post offices, nor postal routes, and no regular way of communicating with
						friends. The first settlers were as completely cut off from their old home and friends
						as though an ocean rolled between them. By and by, when other immigrants came, and when
						settlements were formed, letters were sent by private hands. When people in the east
						wished to send letters to their friends on the frontier, they addressed them to the
						settlement in which they lived, and gave them to some emigrant, who in turn gave it to
						some other person going to that settlement, or near it.
					The settlements were all called by some particular name, as the "Pigeon Roost
						Settlement," "Jones' Settlement," etc. Sometimes weeks, perhaps months, would pass
						before such letters reached their destination in this irregular fashion, but they were
						none the less welcome because the news they contained was somewhat stale.
					Through fear of the Indians, the first cabins were made very strong; the doors were
						often three or four inches thick,  strongly made, and were
						fastened on the inside by strong wooden bars. After all danger from the savages was
						passed, the wooden latch with the leather latch-string was used. In the day-time the
						latch-string hung outside; at night it was drawn inside, which prevented anyone from
						opening the door from the outside.
					Wolves, bears, panthers, wild-cats and other wild animals prowled around the settler's
						cabin in the darkness and made night hideous, while the fear of the Indians was
						constantly upon them. The treacherous habits of the savages made them more to be
						dreaded, for they never allowed their approach to a cabin to be known, but leaving the
						pathway to the door, they would slip behind the cabin and suddenly spring around the
						corner. Sometimes a family would be startled by seeing five, ten, or perhaps twenty
						Indians at the door, armed with tomahawks, guns and scalping knives. Amid such hardships
						and dangers, the settlers lived and worked to make themselves a home.
					By and by the little cabin in the woods began to look more home-like. Vines clambered
						over the rough walls, bright flowers bloomed in the little door-yards, which were
						inclosed by a rail fence; other and greater fields were cleared, and surrounded by
						fences made of rails split from the trunks of trees; a log stable sheltered the horses
						and cattle, a well was dug near the door, and over it hung the long well-sweep, from
						which a bucket was suspended. Little by little, step by step, the never-ending progress
						continued. By and by the blue smoke curled above other cabins, neighbors appeared,
						settlements were formed, roads were made, mills were built, bridges made across streams,
						school-houses began to appear here and there, villages sprang up, which  grew into towns and cities, the forests grew less dense and
						finally almost disappeared. The log houses gave place to comfortable frame or brick
						dwellings, these to elegant homes; churches, schools, colleges were established over the
						country; railroads and canals were built; gravel roads and streets, miles and miles in
						length, were made.
					And so the footsteps of progress can be traced until we have the Indiana of to-day,
						with her cities, her mansions, her towns and villages, her railroads, her churches, her
						institutions of learning, her arts, her sciences, her monuments, her people; and all
						this progress has been made in less than one hundred years.
				

				

				
					CHAPTER XVII.

					 Occupation and Social Life of the Pioneers.

					The life of the pioneer, although rough and filled with hard work, was not without its
						pleasures. After the country became more settled, and neighbors were nearer, more time
						was given to social enjoyment, but always mixed with hard work.
					When a house was to be raised, or logs to be rolled off a new piece of ground, an
						invitation was sent to every man in the settlement to come on a certain day and help. No
						matter how busy he was with his own work, no man refused to assist his neighbor. Nor did
						he go alone, but was usually accompanied by his wife and daughters, who went to help the
						"women folks" prepare the dinner. The children were also included in the party, and a
						gala day was made of the  occasion. Sometimes the hostess
						would invite the women of the neighborhood to a "quilting" on that day, and a merry time
						was enjoyed in the little cabin, which rang with the sound of happy voices keeping time
						to the busy fingers.
					These occasions were very sweet to the pioneer women, who lived lonely, solitary lives,
						and whose hearts often yearned for the old home and friends. It was no uncommon thing
						for a family to live miles from any human beings; yet all within reach were neighbors,
						and five or ten miles was not considered a great distance for a man or woman to go on
						horseback, or on foot, to visit the sick or do a neighborly kindness.
					The men in the clearings were not without their pleasures, and many a rough joke broke
						the monotony of their labors; many a test of strength and skill was made with the long
						hand-spike, or by lifting and wrestling. And then, when the noon hour arrived, how
						merrily they would gather around the table in the little cabin, and how the young men
						and girls would blush at the very sight of each other, and how rapidly the food would
						disappear down the hungry throats, amid such laughing and chattering as would do one
						good to hear!
					Then, again, when the corn was ripe and gathered in, came the merry "huskings," which
						were particularly pleasurable for the young people, for a dance or a merry play was sure
						to follow. The corn was divided into two heaps of equal size. The huskers were divided
						into two companies, and captains placed over them. The company which finished husking
						its heap first, won the contest. How they worked, and how rapidly the piles of white and
						yellow corn grew, and how the husks flew and rose in great billowy  heaps behind the huskers! When the last ear was finished on one side, the
						successful workers gave a glad shout, and gathering up their captain, triumphantly
						carried him on their shoulders into the ranks of the other company, and amid such
						boisterous laughter, ridiculed the tardy huskers. Then followed the merry plays and the
						dance.
					However well the pioneer men fought the battle of life, the pioneer women fought just
						as bravely and as well; they endured hardships as great and shared equally with their
						husbands and fathers their responsibilities ard trials. They lived lives of true heroism
						and patient endurance. They, too, were helpful to each other. They sometimes took their
						spinning-wheels and walked a mile, or perhaps two or three miles, to attend a "spinning
						bee" in order to assist a neighbor, and the busy wheels and the busy voices would
						startle the birds in the tall trees outside the cabin. After hours of hard work, they
						enjoyed the simple meal prepared for them by their hostess, and in the evening joined in
						some innocent amusements, to which the men had been invited. Quilting, wool-picking and
						many other kinds of work were done with the assistance of the women of the settlement,
						and all such occasions were turned into seasons of merriment, which broke the monotony
						of their hard-working lives. The men and women of early Indiana were usually in the
						prime of life and enjoyed all such merry-making. Very few aged people came to the State
						in the pioneer days.
					Boys and girls were taught from their early childhood that they must assist in the work
						going on about them. The boys fed the pigs, chopped and carried in the wood, and did the
						other chores after a day's work in the clearing, or at the plow, or in the harvest. The
						girls quit the spinning-wheel,  or their sewing, or
						knitting, to milk the cow, feed the chickens and wash the dishes. There was no time for
						idleness, even among the children, for farms were to be cleared, and a great State was
						to be made, and each must do his part.
					The tools of the settler were an ax, a broad-ax, a maul and wedge, a froe, a whip-saw
						and hand-spike. His work was to go into the woods, chop, hew, saw, split and rive; to
						build houses and stables of logs; to make fences of rails, which he split from trees; to
						clear and plow the ground, and to plant, cultivate and gather the crops of wheat, corn
						and vegetables. The ground was so thickly covered with stumps that it was very difficult
						to plow among them, and corn and vegetables were cultivated with the hoe. The stumps
						were burned and dug out as rapidly as possible, but in the beginning they gave a very
						rough appearance to the fields. It took years to clear a field entirely of them.
					Oats and wheat were sown broadcast, after the ground was prepared, and the settler tied
						brush together and dragged it over the newly-sown seed, thus lightly covering it with
						soil. After a time, harrows with wooden teeth were introduced, and the farmer who was so
						fortunate as to own one had plenty of opportunities to loan it to his neighbors; in
						fact, borrowing and lending was a special feature of pioneer neighboring. Sheep-shears
						were also an important implement in a pioneer settlement, one or two pairs serving for
						an entire neighborhood.
					When the wheat matured and was ready to be harvested, it was cut with a crooked knife,
						called a sickle, and tied in bunches, or bundles, and placed in shocks of a dozen
						bundles each. Mowing machines had not been invented and could not have been used among
						the stumps which covered the  fields. The wheat shocks
						were gathered into a shed, or made into stacks until ready for threshing; this was done
						by spreading it on the floor, or the hard ground, and beating it with a flail, made of a
						small hickory sapling, to one end of which a separate piece of wood was fastened by a
						leather strap, or string, to give it more play, or force. By much beating with this
						instrument, the grain was separated from the straw, which was lifted away with wooden
						forks, and placed in a pile, or stack. There yet remained the chaff among the grain. To
						separate this, two men, or a man and a woman, took hold of the corners of a linen sheet,
						and by spreading it out and tossing it and fanning it in the air, a breeze was created
						which blew away the chaff, leaving the golden grain pure and clean.
					Flax was also an important crop in pioneer days. After it had matured, it was pulled up
						by the roots and spread on the ground, where it was left to rot in the sun and rain;
						this loosened the lint from the stems. It was then broken in short lengths, in a machine
						with wooden blades, called a "flax-brake." The lint, or stringy fiber, was then cleaned
						from the stems by a process called "scutching," after which the coarse fiber was ready
						for the "hackle," which was a board filled with pointed iron teeth, through which the
						lint was drawn until all the loose particles of tow were separated. It was then rolled
						up in small bundles and spun into threads, which the busy housewife wove into cloth,
						from which dresses and underclothing were made for the women and children, and shirts
						and trousers for the men and boys. The bed and table linen was also woven of flax and
						the threads knit into stockings for the family.
					The women did all the housework--cooking, washing, 
						scrubbing, milking and butter-making; they did spinning, weaving, sewing, knitting,
						mending, rearing their children and sometimes teaching them from books, for there were
						no schools in the early days; and besides all this, they often helped in the clearings
						and in the fields. All manner of privations and hardships were theirs, and that
						weariness of mind and body which comes of ceaseless toil.
					Their food was the plainest. Wheat bread was a luxury that few could afford. Corn bread
						was the staple food, and it was made in the simplest way. The meal was mixed with salt
						and water and made into a stiff dough; this was placed on a smooth clap-board, two or
						more feet long and about an inch thick. This was placed in a leaning position before a
						hot fire; when partly baked, the "Johnny-cake," as it was called, was turned on the
						board, and the other side was put toward the fire. Sometimes the dough was baked in
						lumps in a "dutch-oven;" this was called "dodger," and very sweet and wholesome it
						tasted to the tired and hungry men. Molasses was sometimes made by extracting the sweet
						substance front the pumpkin and boiling it until it became a sirup. Sugar and molasses
						were also made from the maple trees.
					The pioneers had no luxuries. Matches, which we consider a necessity, were unknown to
						them. Fire was kept from day to day, from year to year, by covering heaps of coals with
						ashes in the open fire-place. It was a calamity when the fire went out, and if there
						were no neighbors, as was often the case, it must be kindled by striking a flint over a
						tinder box. If there were neighbors, it was easier to borrow from them.
					One foe to the pioneer was malaria. With the clearing out of the forests and swamps,
						the plowing of the fields, the  drying out of lands and
						the decay of vegetable matter, came chills and fever; very few escaped it. Strong men
						and women, and little children alike, were stricken with this dread disease. Sometimes
						the usual remedies failed to restore health, and the patient died, a victim to the
						unhealthy condition of the country. Sad indeed was the day when the little procession of
						mourners followed the dead along the road which wound its way in and out through the
						trees which grew between the little cabin in the clearing and the graveyard in the
						forest.
					Before the pioneer had time to build fences around his farm, cattle, hogs and sheep
						were allowed to run at will through the woods. They were usually marked by cutting the
						ear in some peculiar manner; these were called "ear-marks." Often a bell was hung by a
						leather strap to the neck of a cow or a sheep. These bells were made by the settlers,
						and each knew the sound of his own bell.
					Sometimes it became necessary for the settler to make a journey to some town on the
						Ohio River to buy provisions, such as "bread-stuff," and other necessities which they
						could not provide for themselves. It often required weeks to make this journey, and
						during the time nothing could be heard from the traveler. If he was attacked and killed
						by wild beasts or by the Indians, his fate was never known.
					By and by mills were built on the frontier; small, rude affairs, to be sure, but they
						filled a much-felt want. Some of these mills were run by water, others by horse power.
						In either case, it was slow work grinding corn into coarse meal for family use. The
						"grist" was prepared by the settler and his family, by the bright blazing fire of his
						cabin. Baskeat of corn were brought in, and after supper, the entire  family would assist in shelling it from the cob. It was
						then put into a bag, and the next day the settler placed it on the back of a horse,
						mounted behind it, and started on his journey to the mill, which was often a long
						distance away. It sometimes required three or four days to make the journey to and from
						the mill. When he arrived, he would probably find others there before him and must wait
						his turn.
					As time went on, these conditions changed. Other and larger mills were built. Each
						settlement had its store, its blacksmith, shoemaker and other mechanics. By and by the
						log cabins gave place to hewed-log houses, some of them with an upper room. Bedsteads
						and other furniture could be bought. Trundle-beds that could be rolled under the tall
						bedstead was a space-saving arrangement; in this the children were stowed away at night,
						from two to a half dozen occupying the same bed. It was a proud day when the family
						owned a looking-glass, though it was probably not more than ten or twelve inches
						long.
					There were vices, too, in those days, as there are now, for many rough people came into
						the new country. In some places, cock-fighting, drinking and gambling were common.
						Almost every family kept a quantity of whiskey, which was considered good medicine for
						"chills," and small distilleries were soon established in settled parts of the country.
						There were Christian men and women, however, who, in the face of all such influences,
						rescued society from the rowdy element by the purity of their lives and influence.
					The people of those early times were merry-hearted, cheerful, kind and neighborly.
						Although their hardships were many, they brought much sunshine into their everyday
						lives. They were by nature much like the people we  know;
						it was their circumstances and surroundings that made them different.
					Their wants were simple, and they worked hard to live within their means. They loved
						the beautiful, and without the means of providing themselves with beautiful homes,
						elegant surroundings, and handsome clothing, they adorned their little cabins the best
						way they could, and lived close to nature, which is always beautiful. Blooming vines
						clambered over the walls of the little forest homes, and every door-yard was made bright
						and fragrant by its bed of roses, sweet-briar, pinks, and other sweet, old-fashioned
						flowers.
				

				

				
					CHAPTER XVIII.

					Early Surveys--How the Land was Sold.

					Did you ever notice how the land in Indiana is divided into parts called farms, and
						lots owned by individuals, and wonder how it came to be so, and how it is that the owner
						can tell where his land ends and his neighbor's begins? Did you ever notice that the
						farm, or lot on which you live is surrounded by a fence or some other mark which
						separates your grounds from your neighbor's and from the street or road, and did you
						ever wonder why it is just there and not some other place? Did you ever think that there
						must be a reason for this, and that there is some law which governs such things?
					If you did not, it will be interesting to know that all this is a part of a great
						system of surveying which was established when our country was new, and which has
						governed  such matters to the present time. Shall we not
						go back and try to understand it? It will be time well spent, and all we can learn about
						this subject may be of use to us in the future.
					The great Northwestern Territory became the property of the United States in the year
						1784. It was a valuable addition to the territory already possessed, and the question
						with statesmen concerning it was, what steps should be taken to settle the country and
						establish civilization in the wilderness.
					We have seen that the most of the land belonged to the Indians, and that it was the
						policy, or plan, of the government to purchase it, and destroy the Indian titles. This
						must be done before the government could offer the land for sale, or before immigrants
						could settle upon it and improve it.
					Many of the Indians were opposed to the settlement of the country by the Americans, and
						refused to sell their lands, and the government could only get possession of certain
						tracts at a time; but it was purchased as rapidly as the Indians would part with their
						titles--a tract here, another there, until by and by the greater portion of the
						Northwestern Territory was under the control of the United States and was called
						"government land."
					In order to know just what territory belonged to the government, and what was still the
						property of the Indians, it was necessary to have the land surveyed, or measured, and
						the dividing lines distinctly marked. So, in the year 1785, the United States Congress
						passed a law for the disposal of the land which had been ceded to the government by
						individual States, and had afterward been bought from the Indians.  This law provided that the President should appoint a surveyor from each
						State, who should act under the Geographer of the United States. This officer is now
						called the Surveyor-General.
					The surveyors were required to take an oath for the faithful discharge of their duty,
						for the work they were to do was of great importance, and concerned the welfare of
						millions of people who should in future occupy the territory. The first work of the
						surveyors in Indiana was to divide the Territory into townships six miles square and
						containing thirty-six square miles each. The lines which marked these townships were to
						run due north and south, and were to be crossed by lines running due east and west, and
						they were not to conflict with the land belonging to the Indians. This was called the
						"rectangular system of survey." To run these lines, there must be a starting point, or
						base, from which to measure. To aid in this, the government established lines running
						due north and south, at equal distances apart; these were called "Meridian Lines." The
						first of these meridians formed the boundary between Indiana and Ohio. The second
						meridian starts where the Little Blue River empties into the Ohio, and runs to the
						northern boundary of the State.
					So much of the land yet belonged to the Indians--only a few tracts in Southern Indiana
						being the property of the United States--that it was found convenient to begin the
						survey on this second meridian line; so a line was run due east and west, crossing the
						second meridian line six miles below the present town of Paoli, in Orange County. From
						the point where these two lines cross, almost all the territory in Indiana was
						surveyed.
					
					Having found the base, or first lines of the survey, the territory was divided into
						townships, as described above, which were numbered progressively north and south from
						the base line, and east and west from the meridian line. The lines were measured with
						great care, by the use of very fine instruments, together with a surveyor's chain, and
						the lines surveyed were marked through the timber-lands by chopping, or "blazing," the
						trees on each side. These were called "line trees," or "witness trees." When no trees
						were on the line, those nearest on both sides were "blazed" in such a way as pointed
						toward the line the surveyors had run. When a tree stood at the precise spot where a
						corner was to be made, as was sometimes the case, it was marked in a peculiar manner,
						which showed that it was a corner of a township. When there were no trees, the spot was
						marked by planting a post, or large stone, with inscriptions marked on it, or sometimes
						heaps of stones, or small mounds of earth, were placed at these corners, and their
						position indicated by marking trees near them, and accurately describing them in the
						surveyor's notes, which were called "field notes." A drawing, or plat, of the survey was
						made, describing it exactly. On these plats, or drawings, the surveyors were required to
						mark the location of all the mines, salt springs, and mill sites that came within their
						knowledge, and to mark all water courses, mountains, and other unusual things over
						which, or near which their line should pass, and to make note of the quality of the land
						surveyed.
					In the Land Office at the State House in Indianapolis, may still be seen the drawings,
						together with the "field notes" made by these early surveyors of our State. They are in
						excellent condition, and not only show the surveys as 
						they were made, but also the location of lands purchased from the Indians from time to
						time, the location of the roads and canals through the State, and many other interesting
						things connected with the history and development of our State.
					When we remember the character of the country to be surveyed, we can form some idea of
						the difficulties of the undertaking. The country was almost as wild as the jungles of
						Africa--heavily wooded by a gigantic growth of trees, and was almost impenetrable by
						fallen trees in every stage of decay, and by a thick growth of brush, plants and vines
						of almost every description. The surface of the country varied in character, from the
						hills along the Ohio River to the marshes of Northern Indiana, with every variety of
						soil, from the clay deposits and sand hills, to the oozy soil of the marsh lands.
						Through all this the surveyor must cut his way, guided by the unerring hand of the
						magnetic needle; directly north and south, directly east and west, the lines must run,
						no matter what obstacles stood in the way; over hills, through swamps, across deep,
						swift streams, he must follow the direction given by the little needle which always
						points toward the North Star. In addition to these difficulties, he was in constant
						danger of being attacked by the Indians, may of whom, as we know, were opposed to
						selling the lands to the Americans, and in some instances the work of surveying was
						greatly retarded by these hostile bands, but in time it was completed.
					After the townships were surveyed they were divided into lots, called "sections." Each
						section was one mile square, and contained six hundred and forty acres of land. There
						were thirty-six of these lots, or sections, in each township,  and they were numbered in running order from one to thirty-six. The
						surveyors were required to mark the corners of these section lines in some way by which
						they could be distinguished from the township lines, and to keep a strict record of
						them.
					When the land was opened for sale, the plats, or drawings, were placed in the hands of
						officers called the Board of Treasury, who made a record of them. They also made copies
						of the original drawings for the commissioners of the Land Office, who had charge of the
						sale of the land, and who were required to give notice of the sale by advertisements
						posted up at court-houses and other public places in each county, and published in one
						newspaper in the State. These advertisements were to be made from two to six months
						hefore the land was sold; they were then sold in the following manner: Township No. 1,
						in the first row, or range of townships, was sold entire; township No. 2, in the same
						range, or row, was sold in lots of one hundred and sixty acres, or less; No. 3 was sold
						entire; No. 4 by lots, and so on, in alternate order through the first range or row.
						Township No. 1, in the second rage, was sold by lots, and Township No. 2, in the same
						range, was sold entire; and so on through the second range. The third range of townships
						was sold in the same manner as the first, and the fourth in the same manner as the
						second; and thus alternately through all the ranges. No land was to be sold at a price
						less than one dollar per acre.
					Out of every township four lots were reserved for the Uuited States, and lot No. 16, in
						every township, was reserved for public school purposes within the township, and was
						called "school land." These school lots were sometimes 
						leased for a certain length of time, and the persons leasing them were required to make
						certain improvements each year; that is, to clear so many acres of land, plant so many
						fruit trees, etc. The land was afterward sold and the proceeds placed in the school
						fund, and this was the beginning of the present school system in Indiana.
					For convenience in selling the land, each section was divided into four equal parts,
						called "quarter sections," each containing one hundred and sixty acres; these quarter
						sections were again divided into eighths and sixteenths of sections, containing
						respectively eighty and forty acres. Forty acres was the smallest amount of land sold by
						the government to one person, although the purchaser might buy as much more as he
						desired. Any one, after buying the land, could divide it and sell as small quantities as
						he chose. When the public land was sold, the land officer received the money and gave
						the purchaser a deed, or patent, for it, from the United States, which was recorded in
						the General Land Office.
					As the lands were surveyed and opened for settlement, the State was divided into "land
						districts," and offices opened in each district. There were seven of these offices in
						Indiana, and they were located at Brookville, Vincennes, Jeffersonville, Indianapolis,
						Crawfordsville, Winamac and Fort Wayne. When the most of the land was sold, these
						offices were consolidated into one general land office at Indianapolis, and any land in
						the State remaining unsold was purchased through those in authority at this office.
					The owner of any land may sell it, and transfer it to the purchaser by a deed,
						acknowledged before a magistrate, or notary public, and entered in the records of the
						county in  which it is situated. Titles to land may be
						inherited by will, which must be recorded. In case there is no will, heirs to land must
						have their titles made perfect by the judge of the court, after which it is recorded.
						When land is sold in payment for debt, the proper officer making the sale by order of
						court, conveys the title to the purchaser in proper form. This plan keeps a perfect
						chain of title, which may at any time be traced back to the original deed, or
						patent.
					As we have seen, the first purchases of land made from the Indians was in the southern
						part of the State, and only this was surveyed. Other tracts lying north of these
						purchases were from time to time bought, surveyed and offered for sale; and in this way
						the entire territory of Indiana was purchased, each new purchase pushing the natives
						farther and farther toward the north, until finally they sold all of their land and
						emigrated westward, beyond the Mississippi, and Indiana became the property of the
						United States, and was divided to make homes for the thousands of people who live within
						her borders. And so you will see that the lot on which the house you live in stands, is
						a part of the great survey ordered by the United States government, which has been
						divided again and again, until it may be but a few feet in extent.
					Shall I tell you how near the settlers came losing the land upon which they had put so
						much hard work? After the land purchased from the Indians had been surveyed, and a land
						office opened, it was ready for sale, and a man wishing to purchase, or "enter," land,
						as it was called, selected the tract he wished to buy, and paid to the land agent the
						sum required by the government, and received a "certificate of purchase," which secured
						the land to him for a certain  length of time, when, if he
						had met all the payments, he received a deed, or "patent," which made it his own, and no
						one could take it from him.
					The goverment fixed the price of land at $2 per acre, and one-fourth of the price of a
						tract of land must be paid when it was "entered" and the remainder in two equal annual
						payments, with interest. If a settler failed to meet any one of these payments, he
						forfeited both the land and the money he had paid, and all his work in clearing and
						improving it was lost.
					The most of the early immigrants to Indiana were very poor men; many of them had
						scarcely enough money to make the first payment on their land, and but few of them were
						able to meet the payments as they came due. It was all they could do to clear the land
						and raise produce for their own use, and if they had a surplus, there was no market for
						it. Almost the only way in which they could procure money was by selling the furs and
						skins of animals. And so it happened that in the year 1820, many of the settlers were on
						the point of losing their homes and all their hard work.
					This failure to meet their payments placed them at the mercy of the government, which
						had the power to sell the lands from them; this would probably have been done, but for
						James Noble, the United States Senator from Indiana, and Jonathan Jennings, Indiana's
						Representative to Congress. Through their efforts laws were enacted, extending the time
						of the payments on the land, and thus enabling the settlers to meet them.
					When Mr. Noble (who had worked very hard for this law) returned to his home in Indiana,
						the settlers came long distances to thank him for saving their homes for them.
				
				

				
					CHAPTER XIX.

					Religious Worship--New Harmony.

					Many of the pioneer settlers of Indiana were Christian men and women, and they counted
						it among their greatest hardships that they must be deprived of the privilege of
						attending religious worship.
					No sooner had three or four families settled in a locality than they tried to have some
						kind of religious service on the Sabbath day. They would meet together at one of their
						cabins, to read their Bibles and sing and pray; perhaps some one would attempt a little
						sermon, or, perhaps a strolling preacher would be present, or some one would read from a
						book of sermons.
					As the settlements grew larger they would hold service in the school-house, and in some
						neighborhoods they built little log churches in the woods, which they called
						"meeting-houses." Near these little churches they would clear off a spot of ground,
						build a rail fence around it, and in this inclosure they would bury their dead. No
						marble shaft marked the grave; only a rough board, on which the name was rudely carved,
						told where the loved one slept.
					Every Sabbath day, in winter and in summer, fathers, mothers, sons and daughters,
						dressed in their best homespun clothes, would wend their way through the woods to this
						place of worship. Sometimes they went on foot, sometimes in wagons; but the common way
						to travel was on horseback. The father and mother often rode the same horse, each
						holding a child, sometimes two, before them.
					
					The "meeting-houses" were not always comfortable places of worship. The rude benches
						were made of split logs without backs, into which pegs had been fastened for legs. The
						only heat came from the open fireplace, and in some cases they had no means at all of
						heating the room. Sometimes they brought iron kettles filled with live coals, which
						produced a little heat and kept them from freezing. Stoves were unknown in those days.
						The only light they had came through greased paper pasted over a hole cut in the wall.
						The cracks between the logs let in the cold, and sometimes the snow drifted into the
						barren little church. In summer it was not so unpleasant. The spreading branches of the
						forest trees made a grateful shade about the cabin, and the songs of the birds flitting
						through them were sweeter than the trained voices of a church choir.
					Here, too, they held their Sunday-schools, which were attended by both old and young.
						The lessons were not outlined for them as they are for us, with "golden texts" and
						instructions for studying; indeed, that would have been of little use, for many of them
						could read but little, some of them not at all. Those who could not read, both old and
						young, brought spelling books to Sabbath-school, and for these classes were formed, and
						they were taught to spell and read. As soon as they could read a little, they were put
						to work on the New Testament, and were taught to read and understand its lessons.
					Occasionally a traveling preacher came through the country and stopped at the
						settlements; arrangements were immediately made for holding religious service.
						Messengers were sent to every family in the settlement, and they gathered at the
						appointed time to hear him preach.
					
					Perhaps no class of men in pioneer days was more deserving of respect, or accomplished
						more good, than those ministers of the gospel, known as the "circuit riders." They were
						called by this name because they traveled around from one settlement to another, and
						after they had visited all the settlements for perhaps a hundred, or it may be two
						hundred miles, they began over again; and from this going round and round, they came to
						be known as the "circuit riders."
					These men devoted their lives to the cause of Christianity. They left their homes and
						traveled on horseback over the worst imaginable roads, often with no road at all, except
						the "blazed" bridle-path, or the Indian trail, and sometimes not even this, to guide
						them. The settlements were so far apart that it was often impossible to travel from one
						to another in a day, and they were obliged to sleep in the open air, with no covering
						except the broad branches of the forest trees; but they were so used to hardships of
						this kind that they did not much mind it, and spent years and years of their lives
						preaching to the rough pioneer people.
					The circuit riders were not always cultured men, nor were they educated, except in a
						broad sense; but they were just suited to the conditions of the people, and brought to
						them the "tidings of great joy" as they journeyed through the wilderness. They
						cheerfully bore all hardships, were tender and sympathetic and made themselves very
						pleasant and agreeable to the humble pioneers, who eagerly looked forward to their
						coming. They preached the gospel in a fearless manner, little heeding whom they might
						offend. They were bold in the discharge of duty and attacked all forms of sin, without
						fear or favor. Their sermons were very long,  often
						lasting two or more hours, but their audience listened with no thought that too much
						time was being consumed. The Bible was their theme. They preached the doctrine of
						"eternal punishment" with a force and eloquence that held their hearers spell-bound.
						Some of them were very eloquent in a bold, rough way, while others were truly
						orators.
					There was no settlement in Indiana that the circuit riders did not in some way reach,
						and everywhere they went a warm welcome awaited them; a seat at the fireside and a share
						of the humble meal was always gladly offered them. Shut in by narrow surroundings, it
						was a rare treat to the pioneers to receive in their midst one who could give them news
						from the world outside of their own settlement, and perhaps bring messages from friends
						and kindred.
					The circuit riders cared little for personal comfort. They were equally at home in the
						settler's cabin and the Indian wigwam. They took for their model that Savior whose
						sacrifice, self-denial and fortitude they tried to imitate. They were often ignorant of
						books, but they understood the natures and needs of their uncultured hearers. They
						received no money for their labors, for the settlers were too poor to pay; but with no
						expectation of reward, they continued in the work of their Master, happy if they could
						bring souls to Him.
					Meetings were frequently held out of doors in summer and autumn. A rough pulpit was
						erected under the spreading trees, and seats were made of split logs; and here
						camp-meetings, often lasting for days, were held; and in times of great religious
						excitement, services were held both day and night.
					The earliest settlers in Indiana were the French Catholics,  at Vincennes; Methodists, Baptists, Presbyterians and Quakers came later.
						Perhaps there were more Methodists than there were of any other religious denomination,
						and to this sect the circuit rider belonged.
					In the year 1814 a society of Germans moved from Pennsylvania and formed a settlement
						in Indiana, on the Wabash River, about fifty miles above its mouth, in what is now Posey
						County. They bought a large tract of land and laid off a town, which they called
						Harmony. They erected a church and a public school house, opened farms, planted orchards
						and vineyards, built mills, a store house and a tavern, as houses of public
						entertainment were called, and carried on various kinds of manufactories and other
						industries.
					There was one peculiarity about this settlement which made it different from every
						other settlement in Indiana--everything they owned was held in common; that is, no man
						or woman owned a bit of land, or a house, or a store, or a cow, or a horse, in his or
						her own right, but everything belonged to the entire community, and was just as much the
						property of one as of another. They did their work together, each performing his share,
						and the money they made was placed in one common fund. They drew their provisions, food,
						clothing, etc., from one common store; each had all he needed, and no one took more than
						his share. There were no idlers or drunkards among them; they never had any lawsuits,
						but settled all disputes among themselves before going to sleep at night.
					The leader of this society was Frederick Rappe, who was the oldest man among them, and
						managed the affairs of the community both in and out of the church. There were about
						nine hundred persons in the settlement, and they  lived
						together in this peculiar and peaceful manner until the year 1825, when Robert Owen, a
						native of Scotland, purchased the town of Harmony and a large portion of the land lying
						near it, and the German association, under Frederick Rappe, returned to
						Pennsylvania.
					Robert Owen, who had peculiar ideas concerning society, learning and Christianity,
						changed the name of the town to New Harmony, and attempted to establish a community
						composed of those who were inclined to adopt his faith and opinions. The experiment,
						however, was finally abandoned, but not until New Harmony had become renowned as a place
						of refinement and learning.
				

				

				
					CHAPTER XX.

					Pioneer Schools of Indiana.

					In the office of the State Superintendent of Public Instruction, in the State House in
						Indianapolis, there hang, a large map of Indiana. It differs from other maps of the
						State, because it is covered with a large number of dots which do not represent cities,
						towns and villages. Should you ask what they mean, you would be told that they represent
						the school-houses and colleges in Indiana. Should you try to count them, you would grow
						tired of the task, for there are about nine thousand of them.
					When we look at this map and remember that for every dot we see there is a school-house
						somewhere, and that there are about eleven hundred high schools and fifty colleges in
						the State, and that five hundred and twenty-seven thousand  children attend these schools, and that fifteen thousand teachers are employed to
						teach them, we can scarcely realize that one hundred years ago there was not a school in
						the thirty-five thousand nine hundred and ten square miles which compose our State; that
						our beautiful capital was a wilderness, and that other cities and towns which now
						support large institutions of learning were unheard of.
					The people who built their cabins in the woods had little time to think of education.
						It was all they could do to provide food and clothing for their families. It took months
						to clear an ordinary field and get it ready for the plow. In this the children, and
						often the women, assisted, and so great was the importance of preparing these fields for
						cultivation that had schools been situated in their midst, the children who were large
						enough to "pick brush" could not have been spared to attend. On the other hand, no
						matter how great the thirst for knowledge, it was not possible for a girl or a boy in
						Indiana to obtain an education in the State.
					By and by, when the settlements became more populous, and when the settlers had cleared
						sufficient ground to raise grain and vegetables for family use, and perhaps a little to
						spare, some of the most ambitious began to long for the means of educating their
						children. So, a few families of this sort employed some young man or woman in the
						neighborhood who could read, write and spell, and perhaps knew something of numbers, to
						teach their children these accomplishments.
					They would get together some fine day, and cut down trees and build a little cabin out
						of the rough, round logs, cover it with thick boards fastened down to the roof with
						poles and wooden pegs; make a puncheon floor, and door; 
						turn almost one entire side of it into a huge fire-place, with a stick-and-mud chimney;
						cut away a part of a log in the side for a window, over which they would paste greased
						paper to let in the light; fasten a broad, flat log beneath the window for a writing
						table; make a few benches by inserting legs in auger holes made in puncheons, and
						'arrange them on either side and in front of the fire-place, place one at the writing
						table, and call the structure a school-hiouse.
					Very proud was a neighborhood of its first school-house. To this place of learning the
						pioneer children wended their way through the woods in all sorts of weather; the little
						girls dressed in their "linsey-woolsey" gowns, made with long, straight skirts, with
						short plain waist and straight sleeves, gathered into bands at the wrists. In summer
						they wore sun-bonnets and went with bare feet. In winter they wore woolen hoods and
						thick leather shoes made by some pioneer shoe-maker. The boys wore home-spun, home-woven
						jeans trousers and coat, made after the pattern of their fathers', with "gallowses"
						knitted of home-spun yarn, crossed in the back and fastened to the trousers with pegs or
						wooden buttons, also made at home. On their heads they wore coon-skin caps, and carried
						their dinners in a splint, or willow basket, made by the light of the cabin fire.
					Quaint little pioneer men and women were they, starting in pursuit of that knowledge
						which was to help them solve the problems of life which they were soon to meet.
					Of the qualifications of the teacher, not much can be said. Sometimes the settlers were
						fortunate enough to secure the service of a fairly educated man or woman who had
						emigrated from the east. If this was not possible, they took the material at hand, and
						fhat was not ,always the best. It was  better than
						nothing, however, and in these little cabin school-houses some of our prominent and
						leading statesmen received the first elements of an education. The books used by the
						first schools in Indiana were of a miscellaneous character; each child brought what
						happened to be in the family. The New Testament and Murray's English Reader were the
						common reading books.
					It was no easy task for a boy or a girl to trudge three or four miles, over ice and
						snow, through unbroken forests; to cross streams over which there were no bridges except
						a "foot log," or tree felled across the stream. Sometimes, in rainy seasons, the water
						rose so high that this bridge was swept away, and for days, perhaps, the children could
						not reach the school.
					The school-house was not always a comfortable place. The wind whistled about the little
						log cabin and found plenty of open space, or "cracks," as they were called, where it
						could creep in and chill the teacher and "scholars" in spite of the blazing fire in the
						big fire-place. Then, the seats were by no means comfortable; the long, straight benches
						had no backs, and often the feet of a boy or girl would not reach the floor by several
						inches. Here they must sit from morning till noon with no relief except when they stood
						to recite the lessons. It was the custom in those days to study the lessons aloud, and
						during the study hours the entire school would drone over spelling-book and reader,
						spelling each word carefully and in an audible tone, or in a loud whisper. When the
						writing hour came, those who wrote took seats on the bench by the long table at the
						window and followed the copy "set" by the "master" on paper or in the copybook. Quill
						pens were used in writing. These the teacher  made with a
						sharp knife, from goose quills, as the long, stiff feathers which grow on the wings of
						the goose are called. It was one of the requirements that a teacher should be able to
						make "quill pens."
					The school hours, like the working hours in those days, were very long, lasting in some
						neighborhoods from early morning until sunset, with but an hour, or an hour and a half,
						at noon for luncheon and recreation. The rules were very strict. It was believed that
						severe discipline was necessary to the education of a girl or boy, and a long, slender
						switch, or a bundle of them, was a part of the school furniture. These were not
						neglected, but were used without mercy upon the least provocation. The daily application
						of the "ferule" was considered by some teachers to be as necessary as the luncheon the
						children ate at the noon hour. Indeed, if either had been omitted it would probably have
						been the latter. There were teachers who made regular tours of the room and whacked each
						pupil over the shoulders, whether he deserved it or not.
					Teachers were paid by their patrons, and to lessen the expense, they boarded among the
						families of the neighborhood, a week here, a week there, until they had spent a week
						with each family, and then they began all over again. This was called "boarding
						around."
					There were often bad boys, and sometimes bad girls, who attended these schools and
						caused no end of trouble to the teacher, who believed that the only way to control a bad
						boy or girl was by force, and sometimes the straggle between teacher and pupil was long
						and severe. Usually the teacher was victorious, but it sometimes happened that the
						"backwoods bullies" were the winners in the game, and the teacher was driven from the
						school and from the settlement.
					
					Sometimes a skillful man or woman would take charge of a school who had a sincere
						desire to help those placed in his or her charge; they would win the confidence and
						respect of the boys and girls, inspire in them a desire for learning and for a better
						life. The influence of such a man or woman was felt throughout an entire neighborhood,
						and did much to lift the people out of the great sea of ignorance in which they lived.
						Much of our advancement to-day is owing to such persons as these, who created in the
						settlers a thirst for knowledge and a wish to better their conditions.
					Hard as the school days were for the children of early Indiana, there were also times
						of pleasure. Child nature is much the same the world over; race and conditions cannot
						change it, and these pioneer children also had their enjoyments. There were the pleasant
						spring mornings when the walk through the woods was a constant delight. Through winding
						paths these boys and girls would stroll, with the green boughs meeting over their heads,
						fragrant flowers blooming at their feet, while bright birds flitted through the
						branches, and the music of their voices filled the air. They would pause at the brook to
						watch the silver-finned fish as they darted about in the sunshine, or to gather the
						brightest flowers that grew beside the pathway. Every step was made charming and every
						moment was a delight. Perhaps some fine morning they were a little late in starting, and
						then the fear of the master's rod sent them hurrying along, regardless of the world of
						beauty and song about them.
					Then there was the noon hour; what pleasures it brought to the hungry boys and girls!
						What delight to take down the rough dinner baskets, which hung on wooden pegs on  the side of the wall. They contained no dainty lunch, I
						assure you--a piece of "corn dodger," it may be with butter, if the family owned a cow;
						a slice of meat, perhaps a piece of pie--all very tempting to the healthful boys and
						girls who ate their breakfast by the light of the tallow candle and tramped two or three
						miles before school time, and who had sat through the long hours with feet dangling from
						high benches, longing for this blessed dinner hour. They were required to sit very still
						and quiet while they ate their dinner, but in spite of this rigid rule and the watchful
						eye of the teacher, there was much suppressed mirth, and sly, mischievous tricks were
						played by those who managed to get great fun out of the occasion.
					And when they were at last set at liberty, what a rush for the door! What shouts and
						glad laughter when they reached the open air! All their pent-up spirits burst forth, and
						the hour was a constant stream of enjoyment to their young natures. And then the games
						they played; there was "bat and ball" for the big boys; "ring-a-round-a-rosey" for the
						little girls; "black man," and "ant'ny over," and "base" for the whole school. "Tag" was
						the parting game, while, doubtless, capturing and scalping imaginary Indians formed an
						amusing pastime for those heroically inclined.
					On rainy days they huddled around the fire, and guessed "riddles," and told stories
						about Indians and "ghosts" and "witches." These pastimes were carried home, and many an
						hour was whiled away by the cabin fire, telling tales of haunted houses, headless riders
						and ghosts in long, snowy robes and blood curdling stories of massacre and midnight
						slaughter, which sent both listener and narrator trembling to bed.
					
					Perhaps they had their disputes, as children will, and it may be a fight between two
						big boys now and then, in which the teacher finally took a hand; but they were merry old
						times, with all their hardships, and many a tired man and woman has in after years
						looked back upon them with pleasurable longing.
					Then there were the delightful spelling-schools, when the entire neighborhood went en
						masse to the little log school-house, which was crowded to the very door with men, women
						and children. Perhaps it was a spelling match between two rival schools, or
						neighborhoods. Then there was great excitement. They came for miles around, in sleds
						drawn, not by swift-footed steeds to the music of jingling bells, but by patient,
						mild-eyed oxen, or plodding workhorses, with perhaps a cow or sheep bell to keep time to
						their slow footsteps.
					The hour for beginning having come, leaders were selected to "choose up," or divide the
						people into two companies, ranged on opposite sides of the school-house, which was
						lighted by tallow candles and by the blazing wood fire. The words were pronounced from a
						spelling-book by the teacher, or some one chosen for the purpose. Those who missed a
						word took their seats; by and by there would be but a few spellers left on either side,
						and finally, if well matched, only the two best spellers would remain standing. Then the
						excitement grew intense; breathlessly each side watched its champion, and a shout went
						up from the victorious side as the opponent went down. How some of those pioneers could
						spell! It often happened that page after page of the spelling-book would be learned "by
						heart" and sometimes recited word for word by some ambitious speller. It was a worthy
						ambition, now much fallen into decay.
					
					And then the merry home-going! How they piled into the sleds with happy laughter, amid
						shouts of "good-bye" to friends and neighbors! How deep the shadows lay under the trees;
						how the silver moonbeams gleamed among the bare branches, and how the snow glistened in
						the soft silver light! How their voices rang out on the clear night air as some familiar
						song was sung, and how the plodding oxen half paused to listen to the music! Ah, there
						were merry times in the olden days, in spite of the hardships, toil and anxiety.
					By and by the interest in education increased among the settlers. Better school-houses
						were built; plain wooden ones, to be sure, but they answered well the purpose for which
						they were erected. The early teachers were not always finished scholars, but they
						usually managed to instill into the minds of their pupils a genuine respect for
						learning.
					The course of study in those early times was very different from that pursued by the
						boys and girls of to-day. To read, to write, to spell and to "cipher" a little was
						considered an average education, while a girl or a boy who had studied grammar and
						geography was quite looked up to, and considered sufficiently educated to "keep
						school."
					The opportunities for reading and studying at home were very limited, indeed. The
						family library consisted, perhaps, of a half dozen books--the Bible, a hymn book, a book
						of religious poems, with perhaps Bunyan's "Pilgrim's Progress," a Bible dictionary and
						Fox's Book of Martyrs, to give variety to the collection. By borrowing and reading all
						the books in the neighborhood, a boy or girl of that period was able, if he or she
						chose, to gather a little fund of information which formed the basis of an education
						which future circumstances might enable him or her to complete.
					
					It sometimes happened that the settlers encouraged their children by taking a hand at
						mental improvement themselves. Geography schools and grammar schools were sometimes held
						in the school-house or the "meeting-house," where, seated around the open fire, the
						pioneers pored over the mysteries of the subject before them.
					We already know of the spelling schools, and that to be the best speller in the
						neighborhood was a distinction to be coveted. Debating societies were formed, with
						"constituiion and by-laws," and after a hard day's work the settler and his family would
						meet their neighbors at the little school-house to hear the important questions of the
						day discussed with "backwoods eloquence." Subjects of both social and political
						importance were thoroughly investigated. National problems were debated and settled in a
						masterful style, quite to their satisfaction. The slavery question, the temperance
						cause, questions relating to banks and banking, to tariff and taxation--these, as well
						as many scientific and social subjects, occupied the attention of these pioneer
						orators.
					Some of these debaters became noted among their neighbors for their eloquence,
						clearness, force and excellence of language, as well as for ingenuity in argument, and
						wit, humor and power of expression.
				
				

				
					CHAPTER XXI.

					Public School System.

					The wise men who framed the laws which were to govern the State, looking far into the
						future, when the wilderness should become a great and densely populated country,
						realized that knowledge is necessary to happiness, and laid the foundation for the
						present system of education in Indiana.
					As far back in history as the year 1785, after the conquest of the Northwestern
						Territory by George Rogers Clark, Congress passed an ordinance, which is nothing more
						than a law for the government of a certain territory, which declared that one square
						mile in every township in the Northwestern Territory should be set apart for the
						maintenance of public schools.
					Two years later a new ordinance or law was passed by Congress for the government of the
						same territory, which confirmed this policy and declared that "religion, morality and
						knowledge are essential to good government and the happiness of a people," and that
						schools and the means of an education should forever be encouraged in the new Territory.
						This is called the "ordinance of 1787," and is the same law which declared that slavery
						should not exist in the Territory. To these two great principles laid down for us by
						those long ago dead statesmen, we owe much of our happiness and prosperity.
					While Indiana was still a territory, the subject of establishing schools was often
						brought before the people by the Governors and friends of education, but owing to the
						many  difficulties which stood in the way, no regular
						system could be adopted. The constant danger from the savages, and the hard struggle for
						existence, left the settlers but little time for other matters, however important. In
						1807, the Territorial Legislature passed an act to incorporate the Vincennes University,
						and Governor Harrison was made a member of the Board of Trustees. The following year, a
						law was made giving courts the power to lease the lands which had been reserved in each
						township for school purposes. These leases were not to be for longer than five years,
						and the persons leasing the land were required to increase its value by clearing at
						least ten acres on every quarter section, or one hundred and sixty acres, and they were
						not allowed to waste valuable timber.
					The Constitution of 1816 required the State Legislature to provide suitable laws for
						the management of school land, and to prevent its sale before the year 1820. It also
						required that laws should be made to provide for the security and use of all the school
						funds, and that a general system of education should be established, which should
						embrace all grades of scholarship, from the common schools to a State University,
						wherein tuition should be free to all.
					For a long time after Indiana became a State, little or nothing was done toward
						establishing a public school system. The chief difficulty was the lack of money with
						which to build school-houses and employ teachers. There were thousands of acres of land
						belonging to the school fund, but there was very little money. Then there were but few
						capable teachers, either in the towns or country, and the population of the school
						districts was small. Besides all this, many of the settlers did not see the necessity of
						educating  their children, and were utterly indifferent to
						the matter, while a few were positively opposed to it; then, the children were needed at
						home, to assist in the clearings and in the fields at planting season and in gathering
						in the crops, and for other work, so there was little time for study.
					Notwithstanding these obstacles, several academies and library associations were
						established within a few years, and the Legislature provided for the appointment of
						superintendents of each school section, who were authorized to lease the school lands
						for any term not longer than ten years. Many a battle of words was fought on the floor
						of the Legislature before a final school system became fixed and permapent.
					Many of the settlers of Indiana came from States which had no public schools, and they
						were opposed to taxing themselves to educate other people's children. Many of them were
						uneducated and could see no necessity of a public school system. As late as the year
						1850, the census showed that there were in Indiana, nearly seventy-five thousand people
						over the age of twenty-one who could not read. "Forty thousand voters could not read the
						ballot they voted, and nearly thirty-five thousand mothers could not teach their
						children the alphabet."
					Since the adoption of the State Constitution in 1816, the subject of common schools has
						been constantly agitated, and laws relating to them have from time to time been made.
						About the year 1845, the Legislature passed a law establishing a free school system,
						with the provision that it should not be enforced except in such counties as adopted it
						by the vote of the people. So unpopular was the cause of education in those days, that
						nearly half the counties in the  State rejected it. But
						the friends of education, although meeting with much to discourage them, continued to
						agitate the question until they had enlightened the people so that they saw the
						necessity, as well as advantage, of a good system of public schools.
					We have talked so much of the public school system, and the school fund, that perhaps
						it would be well to see just what is meant by these terms. The word "system" means
						regular method, or order; and a "school system" means the plan, or order by which the
						schools are conducted. The word "fund" comes from the Latin, and means bottom, or
						foundation. The "school fund" of Indiana is the money set apart for the use of schools.
						It is the foundation of public education. The school system would be of little use were
						it not for this fund which makes it possible to carry out the plan of education.
					The school fund of Indiana is so guarded by the Constitution, which we understand to be
						the supreme law of the State that it can be used for no other purpose. This fund
						amounted to $10,303,184.01 June 1, 1898. This large sum of money has been divided among
						the ninety-two counties of the State, according to their population, and has been loaned
						upon real estate so that each one hundred dollars brings in three dollars every six
						months. This interest, as it is called, is expended for the support of the public
						schools, and for the year ending June 1, 1898, it amounted to $608,186.24.
					There are two school funds. The oldest is known as the "Congressional Township Fund,"
						because when Congress made the law which enabled Indiana to become a State, it set apart
						for the support of public schools in every township  the
						section of land numbered "sixteen." We have seen that a section is a square mile, and
						that there are thirty-six square miles in a township, so that by this law, one
						thirty-sixth part of all the land in the State was set apart for public education.
					We know how the land was rented or leased, and the proceeds expended in schools, but at
						that early day, land was so cheap that very few persons would rent land that was not in
						a condition for tillage, and the revenue for school was so small, that in 1827, the
						Legislature asked Congress to give the inhabitants of each township the authority to
						sell the lands, and make a fund of the proceeds, the interest of which should be devoted
						to the support of schools.
					At the present price of lands, the receipts from such a sale would amount to many
						millions of dollars; but only $3,487,806 were received for 655,478 acres of land. This
						fund which belongs to the townships, is managed by county officers, but they are
						required to satisfy the Superintendent of Public Instruction that the interest is
						collected and expended for schools.
					The other fund is called the "Common School Fund," and it is derived from various
						sources. In 1836 Congress found a large amount of money in the Federal treasury for
						which it had no use. It came to be called "the surplus revenue." This surplus revenue
						seemed to trouble Congress so much that it decided to loan it to the respective States
						in proportion to their population, to be paid back when wanted by the United States.
						That loan has never been called for and never will be. Indiana's share was $860,254, of
						which $537,502 were turned into the common school fund.
					
					Then there is the "County Seminary Fund," which was derived from the sale of two
						townships of land donated by Congress for the support of seminaries. The proceeds from
						the sale of this property were turned into the common school fund, under an act of 1852.
						The county seminary fund received all fines imposed for violation of the penal laws, and
						this sum, although not large, was also turned over to the common school fund. The
						receipts from the sale of salt springs in the State, which is known as the "Saline
						Fund," added $85,000 to the school fund in 1832.
					The most important of the common school funds is known as the "Sinking Fund." What is a
						"sinking fund?" you would ask. I will try to explain. If a corporation, which may mean a
						State, or a city, or a company, borrows a large amount of money which is due at the end
						of a stated term of years, it provides that a certain amount shall be set apart each
						year, and put at interest, so that the amount of the sums set apart, together with the
						interest, will be sufficient to pay the debt when it becomes dues. This money is called
						a "sinking fund," probably because when it is large enough, it "sinks" or pays the
						debt.
					In 1834, the Legislature passed a law to establish a State Bank, one-half of the stock
						to be owned by the State, the remainder by individuals. By this law, the Legislature
						generously agreed to furnish the money to shareholders who were unable to meet their
						payments, taking their stock as security. The Legislature could not tell how much money
						would be needed for this purpose, from year to year, so each session appropriated the
						sum considered necessary. Often more money was voted than was needed; the remainder was
						called an "unexpended balance." These balances, with all 
						the money received from shareholders for the advance made by the State, was made a
						sinking fund. When the bank was established, the State borrowed $3,000,000 to pay her
						portion of the stock, and this sinking fund was used to pay this debt; but it was more
						than enough, and the balance, which amounted to $4,255,731.87, was devoted to the common
						school fund. The children of Indiana owe a debt of gratitude to John Beard, "a plain old
						farmer from Montgomery county," who managed to have the bill which provided for the
						payment of this debt, so amended that all that remained of this fund after the loan was
						paid, should be a permanent fund for common school education. In addition to this
						sinking fund, the "Bank Tax Fund" yielded a small amount which was appropriated to the
						common school fund.
					The State Constitution of 1851 not only placed the school fund beyond the reach of
						legislative action, but added to it all lands and estates which shall be forfeited to
						the State for want of heirs--all lands that have been, or shall hereafter be granted to
						the State, including the sale of swamp lands granted to the State by Congress, in 1850,
						after deducting the expense of drainage. The total of all these funds makes a large sum
						of money, which is increased each year by the fines imposed for violation of the laws.
						The common school fund, like the congressional school fund, is apportioned among the
						counties and loaned upon real estate.
					In addition to the public schools of Indiana, there are numerous colleges and schools
						of higher education scattered over the State. The majority of these are denominational,
						that is, they are established and maintained by some religious denomination. The State
						has three colleges, or institutions  of learning, for the
						support of which the Legislature makes appropriations; these are, the State University
						at Bloomington, chartered as such in 1838; Purdue University, at Lafayette, opened for
						instruction in the natural sciences, engineering, and agriculture in 1874; and the
						Indiana State Normal School, which was established in 1865, for the professional
						training of teachers.
					Among the denominational schools may be mentioned that of Earlham College, established
						and maintained by the Society of Friends, at Richmond, Indiana; DePauw University,
						Greencastle, which is the great Methodist school of the State; Hanover College, at
						Hanover, and Wabash College, at Crawfordsville, both of which are under Presbyterian
						management; Butler University, at Irvington, under the control of the Christian Church,
						and Franklin College, at Franklin, under Baptist rule. The Catholic Church has a number
						of schools in the State, among which is that of Notre Dame, a college for boys, at South
						Bend, and St. Mary's Institute, a school for girls, at Terre Haute. The Rose Polytechnic
						Institute is also located at Terre Haute. The Culver Military Academy, on Lake
						Maxinkuckee, in Marshall county, is the only military school in Indiana and one of the
						largest in the United States.
				

				

				
					CHAPTER XXII.

					Indianapolis the State Capital.

					After Indiana became a State, Congress donated four sections of land, or 2,560 acres,
						for the establishment of a permanent State Capital, and in January, 1820, the
						Legislature  appointed nine men as commissioners, to
						select the location, which could be made from any unsold lands in the State.
					Only five of these commissioners accepted the appointment, and in the spring they
						traversed White River Valley, to find a suitable location for the capital of the State,
						and very naturally came to different conclusions. They had been instructed by Governor
						Jennings to meet at the house of William Conner, near Noblesville, in Hamilton county,
						to decide the matter. This they did on May 22, 1820.
					What was said about the different locations proposed, we shall never know, but when it
						came to a deciding vote, the choice fell upon the east bank of White River, near the
						mouth of Fall Creek, within a few miles of the geographical center of the State. The
						spot selected was in the heart of a magnificent forest, on what appeared to be a
						perfectly level plain. It was many miles from any settlement, the nearest store being at
						Connersville, sixty miles away. It had little to recommend it except that it was near
						the center of the State, and was surrounded by a fertile country.
					When the Legislature met at Corydon the following winter, the commissioners made their
						report, and on January 6, 1821, the choice was confirmed. Then came the selection of a
						name for the new capital. Many were suggested, among them that of Tecumseh, but all were
						laughed at, and voted down. The name Indianapolis was suggested by Judge Jeremiah
						Sullivan, of Jefferson county. This, too, was at first laughed at, but it grew in favor
						as its meaning came to be understood. The Greek word "polis" means city; and
						"Indiana-polis" means the City of Indiana, which indicates to all the world, its
						location, and in a manner its  importance; and so it was
						decided to call the new capital Indianapolis--a name of which we are now very proud.
					The same Legislature appointed three commissioners to lay off the town. They were to
						meet on the first Monday in April, 1821, and were instructed to appoint the necessary
						assistants, survey and lay off the town, make two maps of the plat, and advertise and
						sell alternate lots as soon as possible. The proceeds from the sale of lots were to be
						used as a building fund.
					Of the commissioners appointed, only Judge Christopher Harrison came, but he was not
						deterred from discharging his duty by the failure of the others. He appointed Elias P.
						Fordham and Alexander Ralston, surveyors, and Benjamin I. Blythe, clerk, and with them
						proceeded to lay out the new city--a city in name only.
					The plat of the new capital was beautiful. It was laid off on a magnificent scale which
						reflected credit upon Mr. Harrison and his assistants. In the center was a circle
						containing about four acres. This was surrounded by a street eighty feet wide. Radiating
						from this circle were four avenues, extending toward the northeast, northwest, southeast
						and southwest. The first street south of the circle was made one hundred and twenty feet
						wide and was called Washington street. The remainder of the city, which was a mile
						square, was laid off in blocks of four hundred and twenty feet, separated by wide
						streets and alleys. The city was bounded by East, West, North and South streets.
						Locations were selected for public buildings, which were to be surrounded, or inclosed
						by beautiful parks.
					It was very attractive, and very artistic--on paper. The reality bore but little
						resemblance to the drawing. The  ground was covered with a
						heavy growth of native forest trees, with thickets of underwood, which were full of wild
						game. Through the woods flowed a troublesome stream called "Pogue's Creek," after the
						man who is said to have first settled here, and who was afterward killed by the Indians.
						There was little promise of a great city in this wilderness. The surveyors completed
						their work, however, and the lots were advertised for sale; but there was little demand
						for them. Money was very scarce, and there was still danger from the Indians, besides
						the locality was very unhealthful. The few families who had settled there, were stricken
						with chills and fever, a disease which continued to visit them at stated seasons for
						many years.
					Washington street was but an opening cut through the woods, full of stumps, heaps of
						logs and tangled brush, and so grown up in underwood that it was impossible to see from
						one side to the other, and very difficult to cross it. Other streets were invisible;
						sidewalks were not thought of. There was very little, indeed, to induce people to come
						to the city that was yet to be carved out of the woods.
					But with all these disadvantages, a few settlers came, and in 1822, there were thirty
						or forty dwellings, mostly built of logs, a few shops and about five hundred
						inhabitants. The nearest postoffice, was at Connersville, and a man was employed by the
						citizens to carry the mail from that place. In 1822 the first postoffice was
						established. One day in April, a young man covered with mud, came riding through the
						woods at a gallop, blowing a horn. He carried the first United States mail to
						Indianapolis. His arrival had been expected and the entire population turned out to
						welcome him. He dismounted from his horse, his saddle-bags were  opened, and found to contain about a dozen letters. It was a great day for
						the capital city.
					About the same time the postoffice was established; the first newspaper made its
						appearance. It was called The Gazette, and was published about every two weeks, or
						whenever the editor could flnd enough news to fill it. The Legislature donated ground
						and appropriated money to build a court house which was to be used by the General
						Assembly until a State House should be built. The trees were cut down and cleared from
						the ground where now stands Marion County Court House; the building was begun and
						finished in time for the meeting of the General Assembly in 1825. A jail was also built
						out of hewn logs. In November, 1824, the State Capital was removed from Corydon to
						Indianapolis. The books and other State property were brought in a wagon, and it
						required ten days to make the journey, a distance of one hundred and twenty-five
						miles.
					The Legislature met for the first time in the new capital, January, 1825, and continued
						to hold its annual sessions in the court house for ten years. The House of
						Representatives met on the first floor, the Senate up-stairs.
					In the original plan of the city, the "circle" was intended as a place for the
						Governor's residence, and for many years it was called "The Governor's Circle." The
						Legislature made an appropriation for the purpose of erecting a house in the center of
						the grounds, and ordered that the Governor's Circle be inclosed by an "elegant and
						tasteful rail fence;" but it was soon seen that it was not an appropriate place for a
						residence, and the building was never completed; it was used for various purposes, and
						for many years was occupied by Judge Isaac Blackford as office and sleeping rooms, then
							 torn down, and the Governor's Circle was used as a
						pasture for cows. Not until 1867, was it properly enclosed, trees planted, walks made
						and its name changed to "Circle Park." This name it retained until the erection of the
						present magnificent monument, of which we shall have more to say.
					The idea of providing a house for the family of the Governor was not abandoned, and in
						1839 a spacious residence situated in the midst of large and beautiful grounds on the
						northwest corner of Market and Illinois streets was purchased and used for this purpose.
						After a time, it came to be considered an unhealthful location, because of its defective
						drainage. The wife of Governor Whitcomb died there, as did also the first and second
						wife of Governor Wright. Other families suffered ill health while there, and on this
						account, Governor Morton removed his family to the Bates House, in 1864, and the
						Governor's residence was sold. The place where it stood is now filled with business
						blocks.
					There were no bridges across White River until 1834; at the foot of Washington street;
						was a ferry boat which was used to carry people across the river. There was much more
						water in the streams than there is now, and the citizens cherished the hope that White
						River could be made navigable for boats as far as Indianapolis; indeed, a little steamer
						named the "Robert Hanna," did arrive during a period of high water, to the great delight
						of the inhabitants, and plans were proposed to improve the river, but were found
						impracticable, and were finally abandoned.
					A stage route was opened from Madison to Indianapolis in 1828, over the Michigan road,
						and was afterward continued to Michigan City. This opened communication with  the outer world and the arrival of the first stage coach
						was an occasion of great rejoicing.
					In 1831, it began to be felt that the State could afford a capitol building, and the
						General Assembly took steps in this direction. The forest trees which grew where the
						present State House stands, were cut down and burned, the rubbish cleared away and a
						stone building two hundred feet long and one hundred feet wide was begun the following
						year, and completed in 1835. It was considered a very fine building and people came for
						many miles to see it. The ground about it was elevated, and locust and other rapidly
						growing trees took the place of the grand old oaks and poplars that had been cut down
						and destroyed. The little city in the woods struggled along without very rapid growth,
						visited by occasional floods and wind storms and besieged regularly by chills and fever
						at certain seasons of the year, until the coming of the Madison Railroad, October 1,
						1847.
					The arrival of the first train in Indianapolis was witnessed by thousands of people
						from the towns and country around, many of whom traveled long distances on horse-back,
						to be present on this great occasion. The most of them had never seen the cars, and
						could not be made to believe that a locomotive could actually travel at so great a speed
						as twenty miles an hour. This train brought many excursionists from Franklin, and other
						points, who united with the citizens in celebrating the occasion. There was also a
						circus in town that day, and this, too, joined in a general procession, and the forest
						city witnessed such a scene as it will never witness again. Governor Whitcomb made a
						speech from the top of a car, and at night the town was "brilliantly" illuminated.
					
					The Madison Railroad Company built a depot on South street, east of Pennsylvania
						street; this caused some dissatisfaction because it was "too far out of town;" by and
						by, when other roads came, a union depot was built where now stands the elegant Union
						Station.
					From the completion of the first railroad, the town began to grow very rapidly. In 1849
						the population was estimated at 6,500; other railroads were built centering here, and
						the country town began to put on "city airs." Churches, theatres and school-houses
						increased in number; business blocks were built; the streets were lighted by gas;
						handsome residences were erected, and there was a steady growth in wealth and
						population, which has continued until the present time.
					In 1864, the first street car track was laid on Illinois street north of the Union
						Depot. The first car, which was drawn by horses, was driven by the Mayor of the city of
						Indianapolis, with the city officers as passengers. In 1877 the Legislature passed a law
						authorizing the erection of a new State House. The old building was torn away and the
						present magnificent Capitol erected. It was completed in 1888, at a cost of
						$1,980,969.
					And so the city has continued to develop; electric street cars have taken the place of
						the old horse, or mule cars; swift, blooded steeds, and the silent bicycle glide over
						miles and miles of asphalt pavements where once the patient oxen struggled through the
						mud and mire. Elegant residences have taken the place of log, or frame dwellings;
						brilliant electric lights make the nights almost as light as day. A monument, the
						greatest ever erected in honor of the soldiers of any country, stands in the Governor's
						Circle, where  once the peaceful cows grazed undisturbed.
						The sickly, muddy town, situated in the heart of the forest in central Indiana has
						become one of the most beautiful cities in America--a great railroad center, with its
						commerce reaching beyond the shores of our continent. With a population of but 500 in
						1822, it now boasts of 200,000 inhabitants. It is a city of which every "Hoosier" boy
						and girl may well be proud.
				

				

				
					CHAPTER XXIII.

					Internal Improvement System--Black Hawk War.

					The condition of the settlers continued to improve. More settlements were formed,
						greater fields were cleared and cultivated, more stock and produce were raised than were
						used to supply the needs of the settlers; so the farmers began to look about for a
						market for the surplus produce. The great market place of the country was New Orleans,
						which could only be reached through the Ohio and Mississippi Rivers.
					When a farmer wished to sell his grain or other produce, he took it to some town on the
						Ohio River, and sent it in barges or flat-boats to New Orleans, and from there it was
						shipped in sailing vessels to the Eastern States, or to foreign countries. The only way
						the farmer had to send his produce to this market was by the streams which flow into the
						Wabash and the Ohio Rivers, and these were so small that they could only be navigated by
						the smallest boats, during one or two months in the year.
					To reach the Ohio River in any way except on horse-back, 
						was almost an impossibility. The country was badly in need of roads, and other means of
						transporting produce and of opening communication with other States and towns; for no
						matter how rich and fertile a country may be, it is of little value without a market for
						its produce, and it cannot fully develop unless its inhabitants have intercourse with
						other countries and people.
					The roads in early Indiana defy description. Travel other than by water was confined to
						horse-back riding over the old Indian trails, or blazed road-ways. It is said that
						Bishop Kemper was nine days in traveling from Indianapolis to Logansport, a distance of
						little more than a hundred miles.
					As early as 1822, Indiana and Illinois together began to form plans to improve the
						rapids in the Wabash River, below the city of LaFayette, and the following year the
						Legislatures of these two States discussed the subject of uniting the Wabash and Maumee
						Rivers by building a canal from one to the other. William Hendricks, who was the second
						Governor of Indiana, said, in a message to the Legislature, "Let us not lose sight of
						those great objects to which the means of the State should at some future day be
						devoted--the navigation of the Falls of the Ohio, the improvement of the Wabash and
						White Rivers and other streams, and the construction of the National and other roads
						through the State." James B. Ray, who became Governor in 1825, advocated the same
						policy, and for more than ten years the people and leading men of Indiana discussed the
						question of providing by law, for the commencement of a State system of public
						improvements. Railroads were beginning to be built in the East, and the great Erie Canal
						had just been  completed, which encouraged the people in
						their desire to improve the highways and water-ways, that they might provide means of
						communication and transportation.
					Land estimated to be worth over $1,250,000 was granted to the State by the general
						government, to aid in building the Erie and Wabash Canal, which was to connect the
						Wabash River and Lake Erie, and to make a road from Lake Michigan through Indianapolis
						to Madison, on the Ohio River. In 1830 the State began to construct this road, and two
						years later, work was begun on the Wabash and Erie Canal. This canal was to begin at
						some point on the Lower Wabash, or the Ohio River at Evansville, extend across the State
						and connect with the Erie Canal in the State of Ohio. A portion of the land which the
						general government had given for the purpose of constructing this canal, was surrendered
						to Ohio on condition that that State should construct the canal from the Indiana line to
						Lake Erie.
					This work was commenced during Governor Noble's administration in 1832, and thirty-two
						miles of it placed under contract. During the years 1834 and 1835, the work was rapidly
						pushed forward; it was begun at the St. Joseph River and was completed to the forks of
						the Wabash River, in 1835.
					The subject of providing for a general system of "internal improvements," as it was
						called, continued to agitate the minds of the people. Again and again it was brought up
						in the Legislature, but nothing was done until the year 1836, when a law was passed
						adopting a magnificent scheme of improving the State. This law provided that eight
						different works, consisting of pike roads, railroads and canals should be begun and
						completed without delay; and a Board  of Public Works was
						created to superintend the work of construction. The people were delighted at the
						passage of this law. Bonfires were kindled and jollifications held in every county which
						was to be benefited by the proposed improvements.
					But the law was not passed without opposition. There were prudent and cautious men who
						feared the State might not be able to meet the expense of this great undertaking.
						Eighteen members of the House of Representatives and about one-third of the Senate voted
						against the bill; but they became unpopular with the people, who did not doubt the
						success of the enterprise, and when it came to electing a Governor the following year,
						John Dumont, a Senator from Switzerland county who was opposed to the State Improvement
						law, was defeated by David Wallace who favored it.
					The financial affairs of the State seemed to be in a sound condition and men were put
						to work surveying the different roads and canals. The improvements which the law
						declared should be made were in eight separate divisions: First, the White Water Canal,
						which extended from White Water River to Lawrenceburg, together with some connecting
						branches. Second, the Central Canal, to commence at the Wabash and Erie Canal, between
						Fort Wayne and Logansport, extending by way of Indianapolis and the valley of the West
						Fork of White River to the junction of the two forks of White River, thence to
						Evansville and the Ohio River. Third, an extension of the Wabash and Erie Canal, from
						the mouth of the Tippecanoe River, down the Wabash valley to Terre Haute, thence by way
						of Eel River to connect with the Central Canal in Knox County. Fourth, a railroad to
						extend from Madison through Columbus, Indianapolis  and
						Crawfordsville, to LaFayette. Fifth, a macadamized turnpike from near Fredericksburg to
						Vincennes, through Paoli, Mt. Pleasant and Washington. Sixth, a railroad, if practicable
						after a survey, from Jeffersonville to Crawfordsville, by way of New Albany, Salem,
						Bedford, Bloomington and Greencastle. If not practicable then a turnpike over the same
						route to begin at Salem. Seventh, to improve the Wabash River from Vincennes to its
						mouth. Eighth, a canal, or railroad from the Wabash and Erie Canal near Fort Wayne, to
						Lake Michigan at, or near Michigan City, by way of Goshen, South Bend and LaPorte.
					By this system all parts of the State were to be benefited. The entire length of these
						roads and canals was 1,285 miles, and it was estimated that the cost would be about
						$20,000,000. The Legislature appropriated $10,000,000, and the State issued bonds to
						that amount. Contracts for building the canals and roads were let, and the work begun on
						every department.
					The people went wild with excitement. They believed that when these works were
						completed, the proceeds derived from them would be so great, and so fill the State
						treasury that it would no longer be necessary to tax the people for the maintenance of
						the State government, and they confidently looked forward to a time of ease and
						prosperity. They believed that the value of property would greatly increase, and
						everybody wanted to get rich by buying and selling land. Land speculation was the rage.
						When the people had no money they went in debt to buy land and other property, believing
						that the price would advance, and they would make money by selling later. At no time in
						the history of Indiana was there so much speculation, and at no time was money so
						plenty.
					
					The National Road from Richmond to Indianapolis and the Michigan Roard from
						Indianapolis north, were one stream of travel. Every house on these roads became a
						tavern for the accommodation of the land buyers and adventurers, and so great was the
						travel that it was difficult to get food for horses, or a place where a tired man might
						rest; they were often glad to take the puncheon floor of a cabin for a bed. But with all
						this travel, and with all this money in circulation through the country, a robbery was
						never heard of, although it was known that almost every settler possessed large sums of
						money.
					But the people who expected such grand results from the internal improvement system,
						were doomed to disappointment. There were errors in legislation, and there were mistakes
						made in defining the duties and power of the State Board of Internal Improvements, which
						caused great dissatisfaction, especially in localities through which the lines of roads
						and canals did not pass; and although the Governor and the Legislature recommended
						careful management and strict economy in conducting the work, there was great
						extravagance and waste. After a struggle of several years in which but 281 miles of the
						proposed 1,285 were finished, and a debt of many millions of dollars incurred the entire
						scheme fell through.
					There were several causes which helped to produce this failure--the greatest in the
						history of the State. Among them were unwise legislation, extravagance in managing the
						funds, mistakes in organizing the State Board of Internal Improvement, and the great
						financial distress which swept over the United States in 1837; but perhaps one of the
						greatest causes of the failure of the scheme was the coming of railroads.
					
					Contracts for building the public works in Indiana had been made and a part of the work
						done on all of them. The White Water Canal was opened for navigation from Lawrenceburg
						to Connersville; the Madison Railroad was finished to Griffith's Station, near
						Elizabethtown. The cost of constructing the roads and canals had been far greater than
						was estimated. The proceeds from the sale of the canal lands did not meet the
						expectation, and when the panic of 1837 came, it was impossible to borrow money and the
						State was almost bankrupt and its credit almost ruined.
					The contractors on the public works suspended operations and finally abandoned their
						contracts. This caused great distress, and not only threw hundreds of laborers out of
						employment, but left them without pay for work already done. The State was without means
						of paying the debt it owed; it could not even pay the interest on the debt and was
						forced to surrender to some of its creditors, large tracts of land and some of the works
						that had been begun, for one-half the indebtedness, and issue new bonds for the
						remainder. It was many years before the people were relieved of this great burden of
						debt, which amounted to several millions of dollars.
					In order to provide the means for paying the contractors on the public works, and
						others to whom the State was indebted, the Legislature authorized an issue of State
						treasury notes to the amount of $1,500,000. For a short time these notes passed for
						their full value, but in 1842, when there was about $1,000,000 of this currency in
						circulation among the people, it suddenly depreciated in value more than forty per
						cent.
					The financial condition of the country from 1839 to 
						1843, can scarcely be understood by those who did not witness it. Panic spread
						everywhere, and affected all classes of people. Probably those who suffered most were
						farmers and day laborers. All produce had to be sold at prices exceedingly low, or
						bartered for other necessities. In some cases, oats sold for six cents per bushel,
						chickens for fifty cents per dozen, eggs for three cents per dozen and other produce at
						corresponding prices. Money was as scarce as prices were low, and wages were lower
						still. It was difficult for many families to keep from starving.
					Work on the public improvements began while Noah Noble was Governor of Indiana, and met
						with failure during the administration of Governor Wallace. In the course of the years
						1841 to 1843, numerous plans were adopted by the Legislature to relieve the State of the
						burden of debt which had been imposed upon it. The State Board of Internal Improvements
						was abolished and the works placed in the hands of commissioners and agents, and
						provision was made for disposing of any or all of the works to private companies. It was
						estimated that to complete all the works would cost the sum of $19,914,244. In 1841, the
						public debt of the State amounted to $15,088,146. For several years Indiana could not
						pay the interest on this enormous debt.
					During the administration of Governor Whitcomb, the Legislature provided for the
						adjustment of the debt due those who held State bonds, and for the completion of the
						Wabash and Erie Canal to Evansville. Before the opening of this canal, the people of the
						northern portion of Indiana, or the Upper Wabash country, as it was called, were
						dependent upon Indian agencies for the disposal of their produce,  and notes given in payment for debt were almost always made payable at
						either the Miami or Pottawattamie agency, just as notes now given are made payable at a
						certain bank. This custom continued until the Wabash and Erie Canal and the Michigan
						Road were built, which opened up trade from other sources. The principal productions of
						the country were grain, vegetables, hogs and other farm produce, furs, pelts and a kind
						of root called ginseng, which was used for medicine. This latter commodity grew in large
						quantities in northern Indiana.
					The Michigan Road originally ran from Michigan City to Indianapolis, and thence to
						Madison, through Shelby, Decatur, Ripley and Jefferson Counties. It was built by the
						authority of the State Legislature of 1830, and was paid for with the proceeds from the
						sale of lands donated to the government by the chiefs and warriors of the Pottawattamie
						Indians for this purpose. A treaty with this tribe caused all the land north of the
						Wabash River to be brought into market, except the land which had been reserved for
						them.
					In the beginning, this road was but an opening through the forest of noble trees, that
						stood like a wall on either side of it. The mud was so deep, and travel so difficult,
						that fifteen or twenty miles was considered a good day's journey. Wagons could not be
						used upon it; there were no bridges nor ferry-boats across the streams and only those on
						horse-back could travel the road and ford the rivers.
					The Wabash and Erie Canal was to have been the principal channel of commerce for about
						one-third of the State of Indiana, and a part of Illinois. Extending from Evansville to
						the Erie Canal, in Ohio, by way of LaFayette, Logansport, and Fort Wayne, it embraced
						about forty counties  in the State. It was the largest
						artificial channel for commercial purposes in America. There was great rejoicing when it
						was completed to the Wabash River. When the waters of Lake Erie united with the
						Mississippi through this channel, the event was celebrated at Fort Wayne by the booming
						of cannon, unfurling of flags and banners, and by patriotic speeches and illumination at
						night.
					During the 1839, boats were run daily from Logansport to Fort Wayne, a distance of
						about eighty miles, and it was completed and used from Lake Erie to LaFayette, a
						distance of about two hundred and fifteen miles.
					But this great channel was a disappointment to the people who expected so much from it.
						It did not pay expenses and interest on the cost. This failure was due to the coming of
						railroads, built by the authority of the State, and covering almost the same region of
						country through which the canal passes, thus taking away its business. It was finally
						placed in the hands of trustees, together with its lands and revenues, as a security for
						one-half the State's debt.
					The canal, which was once the pride and hope of the people, is now a vast waste,
						abandoned and neglected, a monument to its own past greatness; and while this
						magnificent enterprise lies in ruins, its enemies, the railroads, extend through almost
						every portion of our State, creating wealth and prosperity on every hand, while their
						powerful engines whistle defiantly along its banks, and whirl triumphantly across
						it.
					But it is to the railroads, which now form a network of iron over the State, that the
						enormous growth in wealth and population of Indiana is mainly due. Without them, the
						country, except in the vicinity of the rivers and lakes, would  yet be a wilderness. Not only have they opened vast regions for settlement,
						but they have distributed the wealth of the country, and made land hundreds of miles
						from the principal water courses as valuable as any in the State.
					When the internal improvement system failed in 1839, the only work that had reached
						Indianapolis was the Central Canal. The sections above to Noblesville, and below to
						Martinsville were so far advanced that it would have required a comparatively small
						amount of money and labor to have made a complete channel of water communication for
						over forty-five miles through the center of the State.
					But when the news of the State's bankruptcy overtook it, the workmen abandoned it; the
						spade was left in the dirt, the wheel-barrow on the plank, and not another stroke of
						work was done. Nor has anything been done since, except to repair it and preserve the
						water power. When the short section was finished from Indianapolis to Broad Ripple, it
						was opened by an excursion. Not much traffic was conducted by means of the canal,
						however; a quantity of wood came down it occasionally, and some loads of grain and
						lumber, but its chief use has been a mill-race and for water purposes.
					In 1833, while Noah Noble was Governor of Indiana, and during the period of excitement
						over the internal improvement system, the settlements in the northwestern part of the
						State were much alarmed by the report of the hostile acts of the Sac Indians, who, under
						the leadership of the chief, "Black Hawk," were doing much mischief in northern
						Illinois. Governor Noble sent two detachments of the militia to the locality, and small
						detachments of riflemen were stationed at different points among the threatened
						settlements.  Black Hawk and his band, however, did not
						invade Indiana, and were finally subdued by the United States troops and the Illinois
						militia.
				

				

				
					CHAPTER XXIV.

					The Old National Road--Mexican War.

					The National Road, sometimes called the Cumberland Pike, is the only highway of its
						kind ever built by the Government of the United States. After the Americans had won
						their independence and established a government of their own, the United States Congress
						met from year to year, first in Philadelphia, then in New York, and finally in
						Washington. It was found to be very difficult for Congressmen who lived in remote
						districts to reach the National Capital on account of the condition of the roads, or
						rather, in some cases, for want of any kind of roads. So these law-makers soon began to
						talk about roads and road improvements.
					In 1806, when Thomas Jefferson was President of the United States, a plan was proposed
						which resulted in the building of the great thoroughfare of which we speak. It began at
						Cumberland, Maryland, and was a continuation of the Cumberland road, connecting that
						city with Baltimore, Md. From Cumberland it extended west ard over the Alleghany
						Mountains, passing through the States of Maryland, Virginia, Ohio, Indiana and Illinois,
						and was to have reached the Mississippi River at a point between St. Louis and the mouth
						of the Illinois River. The entire length was  eight
						hundred miles. It was a magnificent plan, and had it been completed would have been the
						longest highway in America. It was built under the direction of a Board of
						Commissioners, appointed by the President of the United States.
					At each session of Congress, large sums of money were appropriated to build and keep it
						in repair. After it was surveyed, the work was pushed forward as rapidly as possible,
						but it was a great undertaking to build eight hundred miles of road through an unsettled
						country--through forests, swamps and all kinds of places, and it was many years before
						it reached the eastern boundary of Indiana. It was first built of stone, and afterward
						macadamized. Strong stone bridges, beautifully arched, were built across the rivers and
						streams, and each mile was marked by an iron post. About every fifteen miles toll-houses
						of brick or stone were erected, with strong iron gates hung on massive iron posts, which
						could be closed against the traveler who refused to pay the "toll," or fee, which was
						charged for the use of the road.
					The road was built in sections and as soon as any portion of it was finished it was
						opened to the public. In this way it slowly crept westward over the mountains and
						through the forests, unrolling itself like a great serpent. As it extended in length,
						the travel increased until it became the great national thoroughfare between the East
						and the West, bringing the people together in social and business relations. Over it the
						mails were carried, merchandise transported, and all kinds of business transacted. It
						was a great national artery throbbing with a ceaseless tide of humanity.
					Many of the most illustrious statesmen and heroes of the early history of our nation
						passed over it, to and from the  Capital, at the opening
						and closing of Congress. Among them were Andrew Jackson, William Henry Harrison, Henry
						Clay, James K. Polk, Martin Van Buren, Zachary Taylor, General Sam Houston, Crittenden,
						Shelby, Allen, Scott, Butler, Davy Crocket, and many others whcse names are familiar to
						you. Jenny Lind, the sweet "Swedish Nightingale," traveled over the road in a chartered
						coach with her manager, P. T. Barnum, from her tour in the West.
					One of the greatest promoters of the road was Henry Clay, the United States Senator
						from Kentucky, although it is said that Mr. Gallatin, of Pennsylvania, was the first to
						suggest it. Mr. Clay fought for the appropriations to build and repair it in every
						session of Congress for many years, and was one of its strongest advocates. He was a
						great favorite with the people along the line, many of whom knew him personally.
					Did you ever travel in a stage coach? The coaches used on the National Road were
						magnificent affairs for those times, although you would doubtless think it a very slow
						way indeed, to travel, in these days of limited express trains. They were handsomely
						painted on the outside, and lined with soft plush on the inside. They contained three
						seats and were capable of carrying nine passengers inside, with one beside the driver.
						The seat with the driver was very desirable in fine weather. It was worth a journey to
						see these gaily painted coaches ascend a steep hill, or glide over a level stretch of
						country, drawn by four strcng horses decked with bright harness, with a number of small
						bells attached to a high iron frame fastened above the collar; or, to see it dash down a
						hillside, the driver flourishing his  long whip in a
						manner which became the importance of his position. It was indeed a sight worth
						remembering to see it enter a town or post station. The arrival of the stage coach was
						an important event in the daily life of the villagers along the line of the National
						Road, and all the idlers for miles around assembled to witness it. From afar the sound
						of the bugle announced its approach; soon the brilliant equipage could be seen flashing
						in the sunlight; in a twinkling the horses dashed up to the station where a groom stood
						waiting with fresh ones. Scarcely had they stopped when the driver cast his reins to the
						groom who quickly unhitched the horses, put the fresh ones in their places, and tossed
						the reins back to the driver, who had not left his high seat; another long blast from
						the trumpet, mingled with the jingling of bells, another flourish of the long whip, and
						they were off at full speed, to the great admiration of the lookers-on. It was a sight
						to behold!
					The most of the horses used were fine animals, and they as well as the coaches belonged
						to a company. They traveled day and night with so much regularity that the farmers along
						the road knew the time of day by their passage. There were great numbers of these
						coaches; sometimes as many as twenty could be counted in line on some portions of the
						road. The mail coaches were somewhat different from the regular passenger coach, but
						they, too, carried travelers. In addition to the stage coaches, there was an almost
						constant stream of wagons loaded with all kinds of merchandise, coming and going over
						the road, besides large droves of horses, mules, cattle, hogs and sheep, on the way to
						eastern markets. It looked like one was nearing a great city to see all this travel.
					
					There were many comfortable hotels, or taverns, as they were called, situated along the
						road, with gaily painted sign-boards fastened to heavy posts. Each of these taverns was
						provided with a wagon-yard, into which wagons and horses were driven at night. The
						horses were protected from the weather by heavy blankets. Six horses were driven to each
						wagon, and they were called "line teams." They were stationed along the road at a
						distance of fifteen miles, and were exchanged like stage horses. Feed troughs were
						always carried suspended from the rear of the wagons and taken down and fastened to the
						wagon tongue, three on each side, while the horses ate, standing with their heads
						together.
					These teams also belonged to a company, and they took the place of the freight cars of
						to-day. The wagons were covered with heavy canvas and loaded with all kinds of
						merchandise from the East. On their return trip they carried the produce from the West,
						just as the freight cars do. Sometimes the farmers would put their teams on the road in
						the busy season, when freights were high, but this was looked upon with ill favor by the
						company's men.
					The drivers of the line teams were called "wagoners." They used a long whip with a
						thick, hard handle, tapering to a point and ending in a silken cracker. Many of them
						owned fierce bull-dogs, which they tied behind the wagons; they carried their beds
						rolled up in the front part of the wagon, and at night spread them in a circle on the
						floor of the tavern, before the large open fire-place. Some of the wagoners were
						musical, and when they gathered at night around the tavern fire, they sang songs, played
						the "fiddle" and had a merry time of it. But they were up and off at  break of day the next morning. There were thousands of
						these wagoners; some of them were on the road for many years, and were well known to the
						people living along the line. Many of them were men of intelligence and were respected
						by those who knew them. When the railroads took away their business, many of these stage
						drivers and wagoners went West, and continued their calling; others took up other
						occupations in the vicinity of the old pike.
					Beside the stage drivers and wagoners, there was the "postillion." This was a groom
						stationed with two horses at the foot of long, steep hills, whose duty it was to hitch
						his horses to the coaches, or wagons, and help pull the load up the hill, riding a horse
						the while. He then unhitched the horses, returned to his station, and was ready to
						assist the next team. There were many of these postillions on the National Road.
					The money used in the days of the "old pike" was different from ours. The smallest coin
						was the copper cent; the next was the silver five-cent piece, and a coin worth six and a
						fourth cents; this was called a "fippeny bit," or a "fip." Then there was the
						twelve-and-a-half-cent piece, called a "levy," and the silver dime, quarter and half
						dollar. In those days a good meal could be had for a "levy," or twelve and a half
						cents.
					People seeking homes were eager to locate near the National Road, and there was a kind
						of distinction between the "pike folks" and those living farther back, like there
						sometimes is between the city and country people. As the boys along the rivers all wish
						to become pilots, or river men, and the boys living near railroads are ambitious to
						become railroad engineers, or conductors, so the boys along the National Road wanted to
						become stage drivers and wagoners.
					
					It was a rollicking, jolly sort of life, with not too much hard work, and the "line
						men" were a source of envy to the pioneer boys who had never been beyond their native
						woods, and who longed to see the world to which that magnificent road led.
					In the year 1829, when James B. Ray was Governor of our State, Congress made an
						appropriation for opening the National Road through Indiana, and each year more money
						was appropriated, until 1838. The road was surveyed through Indiana and many contracts
						for building it were let. The land along the line was eagerly bought up, and settlers
						found their way to it through the forest, built their cabins and opened their farms in
						the expectation that the government would soon complete its construction, and they would
						have easy access to their neighbors and a ready market for their produce. The work was
						fitfully prosecuted for ten years; some portions of it were completed and in use; other
						sections were no more than openings through the woods, and in some seasons of the year
						were almost impassable. The bridge across White River at Indianapolis was begun in 1830
						and completed in 1834.
					When the internal improvement system failed in 1839, work on the National Road was
						abandoned, and for ten years it was left to fall into ruins for want cf repair. This was
						a great disappointment to the settlers who had expected so much from it, and to the
						towns to which its promised greatness had been an advantage.
					In 1848 the National Government donated to Indiana that portion of the road lying
						within the State, together with all its improvements, and the State Legislature granted
						charters to four companies to complete it. A part of it was made a plank road; other
						sections were macadamized, but  before it was finished to
						the western borders of the State, the railroads came and took away its business, and,
						although it became, and is still, a great thoroughfare, it never reached that degree of
						greatness that made the eastern portion of the road so famous.
					The first large town in Indiana through which the National Road passes is Richmond. It
						forms the principal street of that city, which is called Main Street. It then passes
						through Centerville, which for years was the county seat of Wayne County, afterward
						removed to Richmond. Leaving Centerville, it passes through Cambridge City, then forms
						the principal street of Dublin, which is called Cumberland Street. Continuing its
						westward course, it passes through Greenfield, to Indianapolis, where it becomes
						Washington Street, passes westward to Terre Haute and loses itself amid the prairies of
						Illinois. The State turned over different parts of it to corporations which maintained
						it. It is now owned by counties and operated as part of the free gravel road system of
						Indiana.

					

						THE MEXICAN WAR.

						It was while James Whitcormb was Governor of Indiana that what is known as the
							Mexican War occurred, and because Indiana took a part in it, I will briefly relate the
							cause of the war.
						Texas was a part of Mexico; but, attracted by the fertility of its soil and its
							advantages for cattle-raising, a large nunmber of Americans had emigrated to that
							territory. By 1830 these American settlers were a majority of its inhabitants. By
							race, manner of living and opinions, these settlers were so different from the
							Mexicans that they could not live under Mexican rule. So, in March, 1836, Texas
							declared its  independence of Mexico, and on April 10th
							of that year, fought in defense of this independence at the battle of San Jacinto.
							Their victory was complete; Santa Anna, the President of Mexico, was captured, and was
							forced to sign a treaty acknowledging the independence of Texas. As this treaty was
							extorted from a prisoner, the Mexican government would not ratify it.
						The Texans were anxious for annexation to the United States, but it was not until
							1845 that Congress passed a law annexing Texas. The western boundary of Texas was in
							dispute, so the American army was ordered to seize the disputed territory. The
							Mexicans attacked and captured a small body of American dragoons; this was followed by
							two battles in quick succession. Congress declared war, and President Polk called for
							50,000 volunteers.
						At this time the Indiana militia had been abandoned, and there were few men in the
							State who had had military training; the officers, therefore, were mainly selected
							from among the volunteers. When the call for troops was made, Indiana promptly
							enlisted five regiments, numbering 4,585 men, and sent them to the assistance of the
							government. The first of these regiments was commanded by Colonel James P. Drake.
							Henry S. Lane, who afterward became Governor of Indiana and represented the State in
							the United States Senate, was made Lieutenant-Colonel. Robert H. Milroy, afterward a
							Brigadier-General in the war for the Union, was Captain in this regiment, and General
							Lew Wallace, whose name is a household word in every Indiana home, was Second
							Lieutenant.
						The Second Regiment was commanded by Colonel Joseph Lane, soon promoted to
							Brigadier-General and afterward Governor of Oregon and United States Senator from  that State. Among the officers serving in this regiment,
							who afterward became Generals in the civil war, were Lovell H. Rosseau, W. T. Spicely
							and W. L. Sanderson. James H. Lane, afterward Lieutenant-Governor of Indiana and also
							a General in the Union army, commanded the Third Regiment. Colonel Willis A. Gorman
							commanded the Fourth Regiment. In this regiment another distinguished General in the
							Union army, Ebenezer Dumont, served as Lieutenant.
						The Fifth Regiment was commanded by Colonel James H. Lane, after the expiration of
							the term of enlistment of the Third Regiment. In this regiment General Mahlon D.
							Manson served as Captain. General Manson was afterward elected Lieutenant-Governor of
							Indiana.
						Among others who afterward became officers in the Federal army and honored citizens
							of Indiana are: General George F. McGinnis, Major James A. Cravens, General Nathan
							Kimball, Major W. W. McCoy, Lieutenant-Colonel Allen May, Colonel W. A. Bowles,
							Captain David Shunk and Captain William W. Lowe.
						Indiana regiments in the Mexican war lost about fifty men in battle and two hundred
							and eighteen by disease. The fighting began in May, 1846, and ended in October, 1847,
							but the volunteers were not in the service more than a year.
						The war was a series of victories for the United States. The Mexicans made what terms
							they could. They were obliged to yield up Texas, and sold New Mexico and California to
							the United States; for this the government paid about $18,000,000, but received in
							return 890,000 square miles of territory, or enough to make nearly twenty-five States
							as large as Indiana.

					
				


				

				
					CHAPTER XXV.

					The Constitutional Convention of 1850-51.

					As times changed and the country developed, it began to be felt that the State had
						outgrown the Constitution. The circumstances of the people had greatly changed since the
						formation of the State government. Great progress had been made in population, wealth,
						commerce and manufactories, and this made a change in the organic law almost
						necessary.
					Reforms, or changes in the government of a people, are always the outgrowth of their
						own experience, and the people of Indiana seriously considered the wisdom of revising
						the Constitution of 1816 so as to meet the demands of the times and circumstances.
					To determine the wishes of the people in the matter, the Legislature of 1848-49, passed
						a law submitting the question of calling a convention to alter, revise or amend the
						Constitution, to the people themselves. The majority of the citizens voted to call a
						Constitutional Convention, and an election was held for the purpose of choosing men as
						delegates to this convention.
					The time selected for forming a new Constitution was fortunate. It was during a period
						which has bern called the "era of good feeling in Indiana." The line between the two
						great political parties, which were called the Whig and the Democratic, was not very
						distinctly marked. The people, appreciating the importance of the work to be done, put
						aside all party and personal spirit and selected capable and honest men to serve as
						delegates. Few if any counties  elected a full delegation
						of the same political belief, and citizens who were unknown in politics, but were
						prominent in other pursuits were chosen and the most trusted men sent as representatives
						to the convention. In this the people were wise. But little party feeling was shown and
						political discussions were in a great measure abstained from, and the efforts of the
						delegates united to create for the people of Indiana a Constitution which could meet
						their expectations and their needs.
					No more important body of men ever assembled in the State of Indiana than that which
						met in the Hall of Representatives, in the old State Capitol in Indianapolis, October
						7th, 1850, to revise the Constitution of the State. There were one hundred and fifty of
						them, and they came from all settled parts of the State. Some of them traveled for three
						or four days, over the worst possible roads, to reach the capital.
					The most of the delegates were in the prime of life, only one man being under
						twenty-five years of age, and one over sixty-six. Not all of them were natives of
						Indiana; indeed, but thirteen of them were born within the State, for you will remember
						that the country was still very new and that but few settlers had lived here long enough
						to rear families to manhood and womanhood. So the greater number of the delegates to the
						convention were citizens of the State by adoption.
					They were all natives of the United States except six. Three of these, James Dick, G.
						H. Ballingall and Robert Dale Owen, were natives of Scotland, and three, Allen Hamilton,
						Dixon Milligan and Beattie McClelland, were born in Ireland.
					
					Of the remainder, seventy-four were born in Southern States and seventy in Northern
						States. Twenty-two were born in Kentucky, nineteen in Virginia, seventeen in Ohio,
						sixteen in New York, thirteen in Indiana, ten in North Carolina, seven in Tennessee,
						four in Massachusetts, four in South Carolina, two in Connecticut, one in Delaware, one
						in New Hampshire, one in Vermont and one in New Jersey. In all, sixteen States and two
						foreign countries were represented.
					Their occupations in life were varied. Sixty-two of them were farmers, thirty-nine were
						lawyers, sixteen were physicians, eleven were merchants and traders, two were teachers,
						two were manufacturers, two were surveyors, one was a tanner, one a carpenter, one a
						millwright, one a brick-layer, one a county recorder, one an accountant, one a miller,
						one an editor and one a banker. The occupation of the others is not known. In politics,
						ninety-four were Democrats, fifty-three were Whigs, one called himself a Conservative,
						one a Free-Soiler and one an Independent.
					Although representing different States and countries, and different political parties,
						the people had been so careful in the choice of delegates that the convention was
						composed of some of the best men in the country--those who might be called
						"representative men." This was not only shown by the wisdom of their work, but also by
						the high places which most of them continued to occupy in the confidence and esteem of
						the people.
					Three of them, Schuyler Colfax, Thomas A. Hendricks and William H. English, were
						afterward chosen by their respective parties as candidates for Vice-President of the
						United States, and the first two were elected. Two of them,  John Pettit and Thomas A. Hendricks, were sent to represent the State in the United
						States Senate. Eleven were elected to the United States House of Representatives; they
						were Schuyler Colfax, Robert Dale Owen, David Kilgore, James Lockhart, Smith Miller,
						Thomas Smith, William S. Holman, Thomas A. Hendricks, William McKee Dunn, James B. Foley
						and William H. English. Mr. Colfax served as Speaker of the House of Representatives for
						several sessions.
					Three of the delegates, David Wallace, Thomas A. Hendricks and Alvin P. Hovey, became
						Governors of Indiana, and one, Samuel Hall, served as Lieutenant-Governor. Three, Horace
						P. Biddle, Alvin P. Hovey and John Pettit, were elected Judges of the Supreme Court,
						while two others, John B. Niles and John B. Howe, were nominated by their parties for
						that position. Twelve others were elected judges of other State courts. Three, James
						Borden, Robert Dale Owen and Alvin P. Hovey, were appointed United States ministers to
						foreign countries. Two, Alvin P. Hovey and Robert H. Milroy, became distinguished
						Generals in the war for the Union. One of them, William McKee Dunn, for many years held
						the important position of Judge Advocate-General of the United States army.
					Michael G. Bright was agent of the State, Horace E. Carter was Reporter of the Supreme
						Court, John P. Dunn and Joseph Ristine were elected Auditor of State, William R.
						Noffsinger and John I. Morrison each served as Treasurer of State. Many others held
						important places of trust, and it is not recorded that any one of them was ever accused
						of a dishonorable act in public life, or of violating the laws of the country.
					
					This distinguished body of men met in the old State House on that October day in 1850,
						thirty-four years after the first Constitutional Convention met at Corydon. They were
						called to order by Charles H. Test, who was then Secretary of State. The Hon. George W.
						Carr, from Lawrence County, who had served as Speaker of the House of Representatives
						for the two previous sessions, was elected President of the convention, and William H.
						English was elected Secretary. Robert M. Evans, of Franklin County; Harmon G. Barkwell,
						of Perry County, and George L. Sites, of Allen County, were chosen Assistant
						Secretaries.
					The names of the delegates were called by the Secretary of State. They all stood while
						the oath to support the Constitution of the United States and to perform their duties as
						delegates to the convention was administered to them by the Hon. Isaac Blackford, then
						senior Judge of the Supreme Court of Indiana. The oath was then administered to the
						Secretary and his assistants, and other necessary officers were appointed.
					The convention continued to meet from day to day, from the 7th of October, 1850, until
						February 10th, 1851, when, having finished the work of forming a new Constitution, they
						dissolved the convention by a final adjournment, having been in session for one hundred
						and twenty-seven days, or more than four months.
					The convening of the State Legislature in December made it necessary to change the
						place of meeting, and the remaining sessions of the convention were held in the Masonic
						Hall, then just completed, which stood where the Masonic Temple is now situated, on
						Washington Street.
					The delegates were paid three dollars per day for their 
						services, and allowed the usual legislative mileage. The entire cost of the convention
						was $85,683.05. This was the total expense of a body composed of one hundred and fifty
						members in session one hundred and twenty-seven days. The Legislatures of to-day have
						the same number of members, and for the regular sessions of sixty-one days now cost
						nearly $100,000 per session, and sometimes more than that amount.
					The old Constitution of 1816 was taken as a basis for the new. Each section was
						studied, discussed and altered to suit the needs of the people. Many important subjects
						received the attention of the delegates, and were discussed from every standpoint before
						a decision was reached. Among these was the length of the term of State officers and
						their eligibility to re-election. The question of negro slavery, and a resolution to
						abolish the grand jury system, were warmly debated.
					A resolution to prohibit negroes from immigrating to the State and to prevent them from
						holding property in Indiana was introduced, and the sentiment was strongly in favor of
						its adoption. The Society of Friends, at Dublin, Wayne County, presented a memorial
						praying that all distinction of color be excluded from the Constitution. The delegates
						were not in sympathy with this proposition, and no action was taken upon it.
					The questions of capital punishment, or punishment by death, and imprisonment for debt,
						were discussed, and a long and heated argument was caused by the introduction of a
						clause to enlarge and increase the rights of women to hold property in their own
						name.
					The State banking system and the public school system 
						claimed much attention; but perhaps no part of the Constitution caused so much
						discussion, or was more warmly debated than the thirteenth article, which provided that
						no negro or mulatto should come into the State or settle in it, after the adoption of
						the Constitution. The question of owning slaves in the State had been forever settled by
						Congress in the ordinance for the government of the Northwestern Territory, in 1787, but
						the feeling against the negro was very strong in Indiana, and, although there were many
						persons who were willing that they should settle in the State, the majority were
						strongly opposed to it.
					One of the arguments in favor of the thirteenth article was that Kentucky had recently
						adopted a Constitution making it unlawful for any free negro or mulatto to live within
						the State, under penalty of imprisonment, and that, being compelled to leave the State,
						they would naturally cross the river into Indiana, and unable to support themselves,
						would become public charges.
					The argument against the adoption of this article was that the free negroes, being
						compelled to leave the State in which they lived, must have some place to go, and that
						in the name of humanity, they should not be driven from our borders. "If this article is
						adopted," they argued, what is the free negro to do? If he remains in Kentucky, he must
						be put in prison for the crime of being free. If he attempts to step upon Indiana soil,
						he must be driven back, and any one who treats him with human kindness, or gives him
						employment, shall be fined as an offender against the laws of the State." The subject
						was of so great importance that the convention determined to leave it to be decided by a
						vote of the people themselves.
					
					Another subject which claimed the attention of the delegates related to the State
						banking system. It was proposed to give the Legislature the right to make a general
						banking law, and that it also be given the power to extend the charter of the State Bank
						of Indiana for five years, and that the profit from the funds of the State which were
						invested in the bank be devoted to common school purposes. On this question arose one of
						the most exciting debates of the session. The proposition was defeated, and banks with
						branches can only be incorporated under the general law.
					One of the most important acts of this convention was the provision to establish a
						common school system. While the old Constitution favored free schools and liberal
						education, it made no provision for their establishment; all was confusion and
						uncertainty. The Legislature was simply authorized to act as soon as "circumstances
						would permit."
					The Committee on Education, of which the Hon. John I. Morrison was chairman, brought
						order out of this chaos, and by its wisdom and tact succeeded in incorporating in the
						new Constitution an article which provided for the establishment of a general and
						uniform system of common schools.
					A spirited and interesting debate arose on the proposition of Robert Dale Owen
						concerning the rights of married women to hold property. The proposition was not adopted
						as a part of the Constitution, but was afterward introduced by Mr. Owen into the
						Legislature and made a law.
					After the delegates had agreed upon the Constitution, it was printed, and copies sent
						among the people that they might study and decide whether or not they wished it adopted
						as the Constitution, or fundamental law of the State. After they had had time to
						consider it, an election  was held, and those who were in
						favor of its adoption voted "For the Constitution;" those who opposed it voted "Against
						the Constitution." There were 109,319 votes for and 26,755 against it, so you see that
						the Ccnstitution was adopted by a very large majority.
					The thirteenth article, which provided that negroes and mulattoes should be excluded
						from the State, was voted on separately. This vote stood 109,976 for and 21,066 against
						the article; this prohibited the negro from living within the State.
					So the Constitution became the law, and took effect on November 1, 1851, and the first
						general election under it was held the following year. Under the new Constitution all
						the offices of the State became vacant the year following its adoption, and the entire
						State government had to be reorganized.
				

				

				
					CHAPTER XXVI.

					The First Legislature Under the New Constitution--How Laws are
						made.

					The adoption of the new Constitution made many changes necessary in the statutes, or
						laws, in order that they might agree with the Constitution, which we understand to be
						the supreme law of the State. So it was well known that the first Legislature to meet
						after the adoption of the Constitution was one of unusual importance. In fact, the work
						of this Legislature was to continue the work which the Constitutional Convention had
						outlined. As one has beautifully said: "The whole temple of State government, from  spire to foundation stone, had to be taken down, remodeled
						and built up so as to conform to the new Constitution and the progress and improvements
						of the age."
					Because of the vast amount of work it had to do, this Legislature was not limited in
						time, as are the other sessions. It met on December 1, 1851, and closed June 15, 1852,
						having been in session over six months. This was the longest legislative session ever
						held in Indiana. Many of the men who served in the Constitutional Convention and in
						former Legislatures were elected to serve in this. It was a very strong body of men. The
						people realized the importance of doing well the work begun by the Constitutional
						Convention, and elected men of ability and honest purpose. Many of them were afterward
						called to serve their State in high places of honor and trust. No Legislature in the
						history of Indiana ever did more work, or work of a more useful character. Its members
						applied themselves to strict performance of their duties, and manifested a desire to
						promote the welfare and interest of the people whom they represented. Many new methods
						were introduced in legislation, many important changes made in existing laws and some
						changes, or modifications, made in nearly every statute in the State.
					The Constitution of 1851 stands to-day as it was adopted then, with but few changes or
						modifications. For almost fifty years it has guarded our rights and protected our
						welfare. When amendments have become necessary, it was not caused by any fault in the
						Constitution, but from changes of conditions which have come since its adoption. Three
						amendments have been made, which relate to a change in the condition of the negro race,
						and were made necessary by the amendments of the Constitution of the  United States. Another amendment was made to make the time
						of our general elections agree with the time fixed by the Congress of the United States
						for the election of members to Congress. Another fixed the period of residence in voting
						precincts, in order to prevent illegal voting; another amendment was made for the
						purpose of giving the Legislature power to regulate the fees and salaries of public
						officers. Another changed the language in defining the power of courts; another limited
						the amount of taxation in cities and towns. In 1873, an amendment was adopted which
						forever prohibited the State from any liability to pay the Wabash and Erie Canal
						bonds.
					The Constitution of Indiana provides that to enact a law it must first be introduced
						into the General Assembly by a bill. A bill is the proposed law written out, and it must
						begin with the words, "Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Indiana." A
						bill may be introduced by a member of either House, to his branch of the Legislature. It
						may originate in either the House or the Senate, except bills for raising revenue, which
						must first be introduced in the House. Either branch of the Legislature may amend any
						bill that comes from the other branch.
					Two-thirds of the members of either House must be present before business can be
						transacted; this is called a quorum. Each bill must be read on three separate days,
						unless two-thirds of the members vote to suspend this rule, when it may be read three
						times the same day. A bill is first read for information, after which it may at once be
						rejected. (A bill is seldom rejected on the first reading.) If there is no motion to
						reject, it is referred to an appropriate committee or to a committee of the whole House.
						If it is  considered of sufficient importance, it may be
						ordered to be printed.
					A committee may "kill" a bill by failing to report upon it until it is too late for
						consideration. A bill may be reported back to the House with amendments or without
						amendments, or, with or without recommendations. After a bill has been reported, it goes
						to the presiding officer's desk and is placed with other reported bills to await its
						turn. In the order of business it is taken up and read a second time, after which it is
						ready to be amended, re-committed, or engrossed. If amendments are reported by the
						committee, they must be acted upon before other amendments are considered. The chief
						discussions upon the bill take place at this point. It may here be rejected by a motion
						to strike out the clause "Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
						Indiana," which is called the enacting clause.
					If there are no amendments, or motions to reject, after it is read a second time, the
						bill is ordered to be engrossed--that is, it is rewritten for the purpose of correcting
						all errors in spelling, punctuation, etc. If there are amendments, and the same are
						adopted, they are engrossed as a part of the original bill. A bill may be recommitted,
						or referred back to the committee, any number of times before ordered to be engrossed.
						After being engrossed it is referred to the committee on engrossed bills, whose duty it
						is to compare it carefully with the original and make a report as to the correctness of
						the engrossment. It is then ready for the third, or final reading.
					After the third reading, a vote is taken as to whether the bill shall become a law. The
						roll-call must show that two-thirds  of the members of the
						House in which the vote is taken are present, and at least a majority of all the members
						elected must have voted for the bill before it is declared to have passed. A vote is
						then taken on the question, "Shall the title of the bill stand as the title of the act?"
						If no objection is raised it is so ordered without a vote. The clerk of the House in
						which the bill originated informs the other branch of the Legislature of the passage of
						the bill, and the engrossed copy, signed by the clerk, is introduced and passes through
						exactly the same course, except that a bill engrossed in one House is not engrossed in
						the other. If it is amended, the amendment is engrossed, and with the bill, is returned
						to the House where it originated. If this branch concurs in the amendment, or accepts
						it, the bill is ready to be enrolled. If it is not accepted, each House appoints two
						members to confer together concerning the amendment. This is called a conference
						committee. If, after this committee reports, the Senate and House fail to agree, the
						bill is lost. If they agree, and the bill passes both houses, it is ordered to be
						enrolled by the House in which it originated. After enrollment, it is carefully examined
						by the committee on enrolled bills, which compares it with the engrossed bill and
						corrects any errors, and a report is made to both branches of the Legislature, and
						signed by the Speaker of the House and President of the Senate. After they have signed
						the bill, it is presented to the Governor for his consideration. The committee then
						reports its action to the two Houses, and the report is entered on the journal of each
						House.
					If the Governor approves it, he signs the enrolled bill and it becomes a law. He then
						notifies both the Senate  and the House of his action and
						files the bill with the Secretary of State, who supervises the printing. If the Governor
						disapproves the bill he returns it to the House in which it originated with his
						objections in writing. This is called a veto. The objections of the Governor are entered
						upon the journal and the bill is at once reconsidered. If a majority of all the members
						elected to that House, agree to pass the bill, it may be sent, with the Governor's
						objections, to the other House for reconsideration, and if a majority of all the members
						of this house approve it, they may pass it over the Governor's veto, and it becomes a
						law and is deposited with the Secretary of State.
					If the Governor does not act upon a bill for three days (excepting Sundays) after it
						has been presented to him, it becomes a law unless the Legislature adjourns before its
						return; in this case it becomes a law, unless the Gcvernor files his objections with the
						Secretary of State, within five days--which are to be laid before the Legislature at its
						next session. Bills are not to be presented to the Governor with-in two days of the
						final adjournment of the Legislature. Laws do not take effect until they are published
						by authority, and circulated in the counties of the State, except they are made cases of
						emergency, when they take effect as soon as passed.
					The people who make our laws are called Senators and Representatives, and as we have
						seen, they are elected by the people of the State. Every six years, an enumeration of
						all the male inhabitants of the State, over twenty-one years of age, is taken; that is,
						men are sent from house to house, in the cities, villages and country, to take the name
						of every one entitled to vote, and the next Legislature takes  this list and divides the State into districts, called "Senatorial
						Districts," according to population. From each of these districts one or more State
						Senators are elected. It also divides the State into other districts, with no reference
						to the Senatorial Districts; these are called "Representative Districts," and from these
						one or more Representatives are elected, according to the population. This division of
						the State for election purposes is called "apportionment."
					The State Constitution provides for fifty Senators who are elected to serve for a term
						of four years; one-half of them to be elected every two years, that there may always be
						experienced men in the Senate at every session of the Legislature. Before a man can be
						elected Senator he must be at least twenty-five years old; he must be a citizen of the
						United States and of the State of Indiana, and must live in the State for the two years
						preceding his election, and for the year previous, must live in the district from which
						he is elected. The Constitution also provides for one hundred Representatives, elected
						to serve for two years. A Representative must be at least twenty-one years old, and have
						the same qualifications as the Senators.
					The Legislature meets at the State Capitol in Indianapolis, every two years, in the odd
						number of years. It begins on the Thursday following the first Monday in January, and
						continues sixty-one days. The Governor may call special sessions at any time the public
						welfare requires it. Both Senators and Representatives receive six dollars per day for
						their services during the session, and are allowed a certain amount of mileage to cover
						expenses in traveling to and from the State capital.
				

				

				
					CHAPTER XXVII.

					Early Indiana Banks--Underground Railroad.

					The history of Indiana after the adogtion of the Constitution of 1851, is a story of
						growth and development. The farms were improved, better houses and barns took the place
						of the log cabins and stables of the pioneers; public schools were introduced and better
						school-houses erected; towns and villages increased in number and population, and the
						industries of the State become greater and more extensive. Railroads were attracting the
						attention of the people and a number of lines were being constructed within the State.
						The telegraph had made its appearance and the entire country was striving to reach a
						higher state of civilization.
					Aside from this general progress, no great events transpired until the beginning of the
						civil war, except that the peace and business prosperity of the settlers were disturbed
						by the unsafety of the banks in the State and the uncertain value of the money then in
						circulation. I shall not attempt to explain to you the causes of this great financial
						distress, but merely give an outline of the history of the early banks of the State.
					Before the State Bank of Indiana was organized, indeed as early as 1814, the
						Legislature granted charters to two banks to be established, one at Madison, to be known
						as "The Farmers' Bank of Indiana," the other at Vincennes, to be called "The Bank of
						Vincennes." These were the first banks of Indiana.
					The Bank of Vincennes violated its charter in 1821, and 
						its privileges were taken from it, and a large amount of notes which it had put in
						circulation became worthless property. The notes of The Farmers' Bank were finally
						redeemed. In 1833-34, The State Bank of Indiana was organized, and before a year ten
						branches were established in different parts of the State. The law provided that while
						this bank was in existence no other bank could be chartered and no other banking system
						authorized.
					The banking business in those days was very different from that of to-day. There were
						neither railroads nor express companies, and when money was to be sent from one bank to
						another, it was carried by the owners, or by private messengers. Bank officers and their
						clerks often traveled long distances, on horse-back, over the most difficult and
						dangerous roads, carrying thousands of dollars in their saddle-bags. They were obliged
						to seek shelter at night in some settler's cabin, or at some wayside tavern, and
						although no effort was made to keep their business a secret, no case of robbery was ever
						heard of. It was no unusual thing for these officers or their agents to make the journey
						from Fort Wayne to Indianapolis in this way, or from other points requiring three or
						four days' travel.
					In time the population and business of the State so increased, that it was thought
						advisable to establish a more liberal banking system, and this was authorized by the
						Constitution of 1851. As a result, banks sprang up all over the State, and the country
						was flooded with worthless paper currency.
					In those days the government did not issue the currency for the country as it now does,
						but each bank made its own notes, or paper money. Many of these banks were fraudulent,
							 and circulated thousands of dollars of notes they never
						expected to redeem.
					This worthless money caused no end of trouble, and thousands of people were ruined by
						it. One by one the banks failed and great distress followed. Business was destroyed and
						the development of the State greatly retarded. This condition of affairs continued until
						the establishment of the National Banking system, which put an end to these "Banks of
						Issue," as they were called.
					Another subject which claimed the attention of the people in Indiana at this time, was
						the Anti-Slavery movement. We know of the bitter feeling against slavery which existed
						in Indiana and we know that by a direct vote of the people the Constitution of 1851
						provided that no negro or mulatto should come into, or settle in the State. This,
						together with the fugitive slave law, which permitted a slave owner to come into the
						State and claim and carry away any human property belonging to him, greatly aroused the
						feelings of those whose sympathies were with these unfortunate people, and was the
						beginning of the anti-slavery movement, and the mysterious "Underground Railroad"
						system, of which you may have heard. Those who were active in this movement were called
						"abolitionists," because they believed in the abolition, or abolishment of slavery.
						While powerless to free the negroes, they did all they could to increase the sentiment
						against slavery. To these people many a fugitive slave turned for protection and
						assistance. In some way they learned to know who their friends were, and after crossing
						the Ohio River, sought them out and by means of the Underground Railroad, found their
						way to Canada, where the fugitive slave law of the United States had no effect.
					
					

					
						ENTRANCE TO CAMP MORTON, 1864.
						
							From Photograph owned by R. W. Lowrey, Indianapolis.
					

					

					Of course you must know that there was no actual underground railroad, but the people
						who received these run-away slaves secreted them in some place of safety, and in the
						darkness of the night conveyed them to some other point, where they were placed in the
						care of other friends, who in turn secreted them until they could safely send them on
						their journey northward. The secrecy and mystery with which these people were passed
						from one town to another,--from one settlement to another, won for the system the name
						of the Underground Railroad.
					It is never right to violate the laws of our country, as these people certainly did;
						and yet, there were many good men and women who assisted these fugitive slaves to escape
						from bondage. They believed, and honestly too, that the laws of humanity are greater
						than any laws made by man, and so continued their work until the time came, when, by the
						stroke of a mighty pen, the shackles were stricken from millions of slaves.
				

				

				
					CHAPTER XXVIII.

					The War for the Union--Indiana in the War.

					You have read or been told of the War for the Union, as we shall call it--a war that
						lasted four years; cost more than half a million lives; destroyed thousands of homes,
						laid a large portion of the country in ruins, and forever abolished human slavery in
						America. You must know that there must have been a great dispute which led to so long
						and bloody a war. You may ask what this dispute was about which made the North and the
						South such deadly enemies. I will try to tell.
					
					The seeds of contention had been sown before the thirteen colonies became the United
						States. At that time the differences were not sectional, but men in both sections could
						not agree in regard to the power of the Federal government. Washington and his
						following, which secured the adoption of the Constitution which made the colonies the
						United States, maintained that the Federal government should be supreme and that the
						States should be subordinate. Those who followed Thomas Jefferson believed in the
						independence of the several States. Before he was President, Jefferson put forth the
						doctrine that a State might ignore any act of Congress that the people thereof believed
						to be opposed to their interests.
					Strange as it may seem, the next threats to ignore the acts of Congress were made in
						New England, by the enemies of Jefferson, during the war of 1812. Secession was
						threatened because Congress had passed an embargo act; that is, a law which prevented
						any ship from going out of an American port. The next secession threat was made by South
						Carolina in 1832, when its Legislature passed an act to nullify, or make void the tariff
						laws. The prompt action of General Jackson, then President of the United States,
						prevented an insurrection.
					This would doubtless have been the end of all threats of secession had not the
						institution of human slavery kept it alive. The political leaders in the slave States
						very naturally maintained that the Federal government could not interfere with their
						property in slaves. None except a few abolitionists disputed this. There came however, a
						question about the extension of slavery into the territories out of which States were
						being made. So a compromise was  made that beyond a given
						line, slavery was forever prohibited.
					This did not stop the controversy. The North was growing faster than the South and
						would soon be able to direct the government. Many people in the North were made
						indignant by the passage of a fugitive slave law which permitted the owner to take the
						runaway slave in any State and return him to slavery. Nothing would have come of these
						sectional troubles, however, had not the South been able to cause the compromise of
						which we have spoken, to be repealed, or made void, thus permitting slavery to be
						extended into the territories and allowing them to become slave States. This repeal
						aroused the resentment of the North and extreme bitterness grew out of the efforts of
						slave-holders to make Kansas a slave State.
					The bitterness continued to grow. In 1860 the Northern States elected Abraham Lincoln
						President of the United States. The Southern leaders insisted that his election meant
						the freeing of slaves in the Southern States, and that being sovereign, that is having
						greater power than the Federal government, it was their privilege to withdraw from the
						Union. It was a revival of the old question of the right of secession, which men both in
						the South and in New England had proclaimed years before. The slave-owning States did
						secede and set up a government of their own. On the other hand the North held that the
						Union could not be dissolved. Upon this issue the country divided.
					Slavery was the immediate cause of the secession, but the question of the right to
						secede was as old as the Federal government. There was no court that could settle this
						grave dispute, so it was appealed to the battle field. The  result of this four years' trial by battle was in favor of the North. Both sections
						now admit that the preservation of the Union is best for all, and that the abolition of
						slavery, which resulted from the war, was a blessing to the South.
					The triumph of the Union laid the foundation of national greatness and power. But the
						South was as sincere in its belief in secession, as the North was in its belief in the
						Union. Both fought with equal valor, because Grant and Sherman and Thomas on one side,
						and Lee and Johnson and Gordon on the other, were Americans. To-day men of both sections
						agree that the Federal government is supreme wherever the Stars and Stripes float.
					The War for the Union was a great historical event, and because Indiana took a very
						important part in it, I will try to tell you something of what she did.
					Doubtless you have all read about the firing upon Fort Sumter on that April morning in
						1861, which was the beginning of the greatest civil war the world has ever known. For
						several months there had been heard mutterings of war; the Southern leaders had made
						threats against the government, and one by one, the States of South Carolina,
						Mississippi, Alabama, Florida, Georgia and Louisiana had seceded--that is, they claimed
						to have withdrawn from the Union, and refused any longer to obey the laws of the General
						Government. They seized all the Government forts, ships, arsenals and other property
						within reach, and set up a government for themselves, which they called "The Confederate
						States of America," and they adopted a Constitution, and elected Jefferson Davis, of
						Mississippi, President of the Confederacy, and Alexander H. Stephens, of Georgia, Vice-
						President.
					
					Although the South had done all this, the people in the North still hoped for a
						peaceful settlement of the difficulties, but the secessionists, as they were called,
						went on preparing for war. They collected all the arms and ammunition they could get.
						They had taken possession of all the forts and guns in Charleston Harbor, South
						Carolina, except Fort Sumter, which was in command of Major Robert Anderson with a small
						force of men. On April 11, 1861, General Beauregard, the Confederate commander at
						Charleston Harbor, demanded of Major Anderson that this fort be surrendered into his
						hands. Major Anderson refused to surrender, whereupon the Confederate officer caused the
						fort to be fired upon.
					Scarcely had the sound of the first gun died away, when the news flashed over the
						wires, "Fort Sumter is fired upon." In an almost incredibly short time the news had
						reached the remotest part of the country, and created the most intense excitement. In
						spite of all the warnings that had been given, it could scarcely be believed. Our flag
						fired upon!--and that, too, by those under our own government! The people were wild with
						excitement and horror; they could not stay in their homes, but thronged the streets and
						other public places, where they might look into each other's faces and talk of the
						stirring events that were taking place. They waited eagerly and impatiently for further
						news from the South, and when it became known that Major Anderson had been compelled by
						superior force, to surrender Fort Sumter, a deep gloom settled over the country, but
						only for a day. They soon realized that the country was in danger, and with this came a
						feeling of responsibility for the safety of the government. All selfishness was
						forgotten,  and in the breast of every patriotic American
						came the determination to defend the Union at any cost.
					On April 15th, President Lincoln issued a proclamation calling for 75,000 troops. On
						the same day, Oliver P. Morton, Governor of Indiana, telegraphed the President, offering
						him the services of 10,000 men, and then called upon the patriotic sons of Indiana to
						help him redeem that pledge. How did they respond? The day after the call, 500 men were
						in camp at the Fair Grounds north of the city of Indianapolis, which was called Camp
						Morton. Three days after the call 2,400 men were in camp, and every train brought
						others. In less than a week more than 12,000 men had enlisted.
					The government had fixed Indiana's quota, or the number of men she was to furnish, at
						4,683 men and officers. Already almost three times that number had enlisted, and the
						question was not "who will go?" but "who will be allowed to go?" The Governor could not
						check the stream of soldiers that poured into Camp Morton; so he telegraphed the
						Secretary of War, at Washington, offering him six regiments; failing to get a reply, he
						sent a messenger to the Capital to inform the officials that he would place these
						regiments under drill, and hold them in readiness to go at the call of the
						government.
					Eleven days after Governor Morton's call for troops, these six regiments were fully
						organized and being drilled. As the Indiana regiments in the Mexican War were numbered
						from one to five, these regiments were numbered from six to eleven, that there might
						arise no confusion; and the regiments organized afterward, took successive numbers.
					
					These first six regiments were commanded by Colonels Thomas T. Crittenden, Ebenezer
						Dumont, William P. Benton, Robert H. Milroy, Mahlon D. Manson and Lew Wallace. They made
						up the first brigade of Indiana under General Thomas A. Morris. These enlistments were
						for three months. There yet remained twenty-nine companies at Camp Morton, and still men
						continued to enlist. The President called for troops again and again, and Indiana's men
						were the first to respond.
					During thie first year of the war, in addition to these six regiments of three months'
						troops, six regiments of State troops were raised which were afterward transferred to
						the United States service. The three months' regiments were reorganized for three years'
						service. Infantry regiments up to the 156th were recruited, and portions of some others.
						Thirteen regiments of cavalry and one regiment and twenty-five companies of artillery
						were put into the field, and 2,130 men enlisted in the navy. The most of the companies
						that enlisted for the first year, re-enlisted when their time expired.
					Indiana was all the time ahead of her qucta from 2,000 to 30,000 men; and when the war
						ended, our State had furnished to the Union cause a larger per centum of her men of
						military age, than any of the larger States. The enlistments in Indiana were 74.1 per
						cent. of the men of military age; that is, more than 74 out of every one hundred men
						between the ages of eighteen and forty five years went to the war, and 6.87 per cent. of
						the entire population, that is, nearly seven out of every one hundred, counting men,
						women and children, were soldiers.
					The troops of most States were sent to the arena of war 
						nearest them, but from the first, Indiana's men were scatered. Some of the most famous
						regiments in the Army of the Potomac were from Indiana. They were in all the central
						armies and those operating on the Mississippi River and beyond. They took part in all
						the important campaigns, and were in all the important battles fought during the war.
						The first man killed in battle was an Indiana soldier, a private in the 9th Regiment;
						the first man killed on picket, was a private in the 7th Indiana; the last man killed in
						the war, belonged to the 34th Indiana Infantry.
					The number of regiments enlisted in Indiana was 151. The number of men belonging to the
						infantry, was 175,772. The number of men belonging to the cavalry, was 21,605. The
						number of men belonging to artillery companies, was 10,990. The number of naval
						volunteers was 2,130. The total number of enlistments was 210,497.
					Of these 7,243 were killed or mortally wounded; 19,429 died from disease and other
						causes; of this number, 1,152 died in Confederate prisons. In the battle of Chickamauga
						30 per cent. of the men killed were from Indiana regiments and batteries, showing that
						they were where fire and smoke were thickest. Our men were the first to meet and oppose
						General Bragg's army, and Indiana regiments were the last to leave the field. The deaths
						during the war were 17.7 per cent. of the entire enlistment; or, more than 17 men died,
						out of every 100 who enlisted. The average deaths of all the States was 16.7 per cent.
						of the enlistment; this shows Indiana's death rate to be higher than the average.
						Besides this, many thousands of soldiers came home so ill from wounds and disease, that
						they soon died.
					These may be but dry figures, but every Indiana boy and 
						girl will be proud to know that OUR STATE furnished more soldiers in proportion to her
						men of military age, than did the most of the other States.
					But collecting soldiers was not all that Governor Morton had to do. When the first call
						for troops was made, the condition of Indiana was not favorable to war. The militia, or
						State troops were weak in number and were without arms, and the State was without money.
						The men must be fed, clothed, armed and drilled before they could be of any use to the
						government. The Governor called a special session of the Legislature to consider these
						matters. He sent agents to Eastern cities to procure arms, and succeeded in obtaining an
						order from the government for 5,000 muskets, but these did not arrive until the first
						regiments were in the field.
					The government was unable to furnish sufficient ammunition for the troops, so Governor
						Morton put a few soldiers to work making bullets in hand molds, at a blacksmith's forge,
						and had them packed for use of our men. This proved so good a plan that the little
						arsenal was enlarged until several hundred men were employed who not only furnished
						ammunition to Indiana soldiers, but also supplied a large portion of the troops west of
						the Allegnany Mountains.
					Soon the government approved the plan and paid for the work. After the close of the
						war, the present Government Arsenal was established at Indianapolis.
					The railroads brought the troops to the capital free of charge, but the State was
						obliged to furnish clothing and food for them while they were in camp, and for this pur-
						pose, large sums of money were donated by citizens, cities,  towns and counties, while a number of banks and wealthy men offered to loan money to
						the Governor until the Legislature could make provision to meet the enormous
						expense.
					The Legislature met on April 24th, and promptly authorized the loan of $2,000,000 to
						aid in carrying on the war. It also passed a law to organize the Indiana militia, and
						provided for six regiments of State troops. It also authorized counties to appropriate
						money for the support of soldiers' families, and for the purchase of arms, and for the
						expense of raising companies; in short, it did its utmost to aid Governor Morton in his
						plans for assisting the government in carrying on the war.
					While Governor Morton and the Legislature were thus busy in preparing for the war, the
						people of Indiana were not idle. Public meetings were held in every city, village and
						neighborhood in the State, for the purpose of raising companies and giving expression to
						the loyal sentiments of the citizens. There had never been such an exhibition of
						patriotism on "Hoosier soil." The Stars and Stripes floated from church steeples,
						school-houses and all public buildings as well as from business houses and many private
						dwellings, and flags were presented to almost every company of men.
					Women were at work supplying the wants of the soldiers, for which the authorities could
						not provide. Everything that loyal hearts and hands could do, was done to assist
						Governor Morton; and this work continued as long as there was necessity for it. When the
						troops were in the field, Indiana's Governor, assisted by the loyal men and women,
						provided for their needs, both in camp and hospital.
					In February, 1862, Camp Morton, where the first Indiana regiments were organized, was
						made a prison for cap tured Confederates, a large number
						of whom were sent there from Fort Donaldson and other places. They were at first guarded
						by different regiments, and finally by the veteran reserves. Many of these prisoners
						were ill, and a hospital was opened where they were kindly cared for, but a large number
						died and were buried in a graveyard on the banks of White River.
					Indianapolis became a great military center, not only for Indiana troops, but for
						thousands from other States who passed through the city on their way to and from the
						scenes of war. A number of military camps were established here and in other parts of
						the State.
					So many sick and wounded soldiers were sent honme from the South that it became
						necessary to provide means for taking care of them, and a camp was established for this
						purpose, south of the Union Depot in Indianapolis. Afterward, a building was secured for
						their use, which came to be known as "The Soldiers' Home." These sick soldiers were
						tenderly nursed by the men and women of Indianapolis and other cities. No troops in the
						Union were better provided for, both at home and at the front, than were those of
						Indiana.
				

				

				
					CHAPTER XXIX.

					The War in Indiana.

					I have told you something about Indiana in the war; we will now talk of the war in
						Indiana.
					We have seen how promptly Indiana's citizens answered President Lincoln's call for
						troops to defend the government,  and how Indiana's
						Governor and the people united in their efforts to do their share in putting down the
						rebellion; and we have been surprised that so much could be done in so short a time.
					But not all the citizens of our State were what we call "loyal;" that is, not all of
						them believed that the power of the general government is supreme. Some of them united
						with the South in the belief that the States had the right to withdraw from the Union
						whenever they considered it to their interest to do so. Some of them also believed in
						the institution of slavery. A large number of the early immigrants and those who came
						later, were from slave States, and it is not strange that they should still hold to the
						beliefs and opinions of the Southern people.
					Many of them had friends and relatives in the seceding States, and their sympathies
						were naturally with them. Besides all this, slavery at one time existed in Indiana, and
						you will remember that many of the members of the Constitutional Convention of 1851,
						were opposed to negroes and mulattoes coming into the State, and that the subject was
						warmly discussed, and that the questions concerning it were submitted to a direct vote
						of the people, because the delegates could not agree.
					This was but ten years before the beginning of the war, and the strong feelings then
						expressed in favor cf slavery, could not be expected to disappear in so short a time;
						and so it was, that while a very large majority of the people of Indiana were
						"unionists," there were those who favored the Southern cause, and in the contest between
						tlhe General Government and the slave States, their sympathies were with the South.
					
					This difference in opinion between people of the same locality was very unpleasant, and
						in some communities caused much strife and ill-feeling, especially in the southern
						counties where the secession element was strongest. Secret societies were organized in
						some of these counties, for the purpose of aiding the Southern cause, and to prevent
						Southern sympathizers from being drafted into the Northern armies, but they were
						discovered and controlled before much mischief was done.
					From the first there had been much alarm lest the Confederates in Kentucky should cross
						the river and attack the towns in Indiana. Kentucky, as you know, lies just across the
						Ohio River from Indiana, and is the State which separates the North from the South. The
						people of Kentucky were divided concerning the causes of the war, a majority of them
						being unionists. Many of them had friends among the Northern people; some of them had
						been educated in the North and their sympathies were with the Union cause; but a very
						large number sympathized with the South. Among these were the Governor and many of the
						officials and leading men of the State, so when President Lincoln called upon Kentucky
						for men to aid in protecting the Union, the Governor refused to send troops, and it was
						feared that Kentucky might secede.
					The feeling became very bitter. The State was overrun with bands of lawless men called
						"guerrillas," who robbed and plundered whomsoever they pleased, and mercilessly
						persecuted the union people, and not unfrequently killed them. This was the class of men
						that the citizens of Indiana had cause to fear.
					The relations existing between Indiana and Kentucky  were
						peculiar. The people were bound together by ties of blood and friendship. Many
						Kentuckians had come into our State to make their homes; many Indianians lived in
						Kentucky, and the people of the sister States were closely associated in business, while
						their social relations were the most cordial. Nor did Indiana forget the debt of
						gratitude she owed to Kentucky, who sent her troops to defend the settlements in pioneer
						days, and when the lews came that the Confederate Generals John Morgan and Kirby Smith,
						with a large force of troops had invaded the State and threatened to capture both
						Cincinnati and Louisville, Indiana sent over 20,000 men to her assistance.
					It was known that the guerrillas who infested Kentucky were liable to invade Indiana at
						any time, and it became necessary to have a force of armed men to guard the entire river
						border, to prevent them from crossing. Companies of men were formed in all the southern
						counties and towns. These military organizations, or State militia, which were formed to
						protect the borders, were called "The Indiana Legion." Besides this, the citizens armed
						themselves and joined together to protect themselves and their property. By these acts
						they stood as a protection to the whole State, being as a barrier between the North and
						the South.
					Although exposed to constant danger, there was no invasion in Indiana until July, 1862.
						At this time, A. R. Johnson, a guerrilla chief in command of a small force of mounted
						men, some of them deserters from the Union army, was raiding through Kentucky,
						committing all sorts of outrages upon such union citizens as he could find, killing some
						of them and destroying the property of others; thus his name became a terror to the
						country. On the 18th of July,  they crossed the Ohio River
						at Newburg, in Warrick County, about fifteen miles above Evansville, where there was a
						hospital containing eighty or ninety sick union soldiers; here also were some arms and
						ammunition belonging to the Indiana Legion.
					The invaders landed at the noon hour, when most of the people were at dinner, and
						before the alarm could be given, and the militia called out, they had captured the
						hospital, the arms and ammunition, and had thrown out pickets, or guards, in every
						direction. The inhabitants were told that their lives depended upon their remaining
						quiet; that a battery, or cannon was planted on the opposite side of the river and that
						they would shell the town if an attempt was made to resist them.
					The attack was so sudden, the surprise so complete, that the citizens were obliged to
						submit. The guerrillas captured their horses, robbed their houses and stores, and
						committed other outrages. The sick soldiers were compelled to sign paroles; that is,
						they were compelled to take an oath that they would not again fight against the South,
						until they had been exchanged for Confederate prisoners. Some of the disloyal citizens
						of Newburg took part in the raid, and assisted in plundering the town. Two of them
						afterward met death at the hands of the citizens.
					While the guerrillas were plundering and robbing Newburg, a messenger had been sent to
						Evansville to procure assistance. In less than an hour after the alarm was given, 1,000
						men were armed and ready to start to the assistance of their neighbors. A part of them
						were sent in steamboats to Newburg, and the remainder marched across the country, but
						before they arrived the raiders had crossed  the river
						into Kentucky, and were out of the reach of the militia.
					The danger from these marauding parties grew worse. In Kentucky they continued to
						plunder, and sometimes murder, and the southern portion of Indiana was in a constant
						state of alarm. Governor Morton had sent all the troops that could be spared, to the
						assistance of Kentucky, but after the raid on Newburg he determined to organize a force
						strong enough to invade Kentucky and break up these guerrilla bands and drive them out
						of the country. He informed General Boyle (who commanded the union troops in Kentucky)
						of his plans--which met the approval of that officer--and at once set about to execute
						them.
					Major-General Love, who commanded the Indiana Legion, was sent to Evansville with a
						company of men, arms and ammunition; a call was made for volunteers, and the Legion in
						the border counties was ordered on duty. The Newburg outrage had caused great alarm and
						indignation throughout the State, and there was a quick response to the Governor's
						call.
					It was a part of the plan of the Confederates to carry the seat of the war into the
						Northern States, and as a step in this direction, General E. Kirby Smith with a large
						force of men, marched toward Kentucky, with the intention of capturing Cincinnati,
						Louisville and other towns on the Ohio River, and of destroying the railroads and
						telegraphs, and thus preventing communication between the North and the South and
						allowing no reinforcements to reach the Northern Army at the front.
					On July 10th, General Boyle telegraphed Governor Morton, informing him of this
						threatened danger, and calling for troops to help defend Kentucky and prevent Smith's
							 army from capturing the cities and towns on the Ohio
						River. At this time, the only organized troops in Indiana were guarding the Confederate
						prisoners at Indianapolis. So Governor Morton at once placed a portion of the Indiana
						Legion as guards at Camp Morton, and sent the disciplined men to the assistance of
						Kentucky.
					The trouble continued, and on August 8th, Governor Morton was again called upon for
						troops. He immediately issued a call for volunteers, and by the 11th, 20,000 men had
						enlisted. The news was received that Smith and Morgan had again invaded Kentucky, and
						that again our borders were exposed. Great alarm spread over the State, and the troops
						were hurried into Kentucky without time for drill.
					On August 29th and 30th, our troops met the Confederates at Richmond, Kentucky, and a
						battle was fought in which nearly 1,000 Indiana soldiers were killed and wounded, and
						two thousand captured and paroled; our men fought so well that they received praise from
						Brigadier-General Boyle for their bravery. Although the battle was lost to us, it
						checked the progress of the Confederates and gave time to prepare for the defense of
						Cincinnati.
					On September 6th, Governor Morton sent two Indiana regiments and a large amount of
						ammunition to Cincinnati, and with his military staff went to assist in arranging for
						the defense of the city.
					General Lew Wallace was placed in command of the troops, and Smith was forced to
						withdraw. Immediately General Bragg threatened to attack Louisville, but after the
						battle of Perryville, October 8th, Bragg and Smith were driven from the State, and our
						borders were for a time unmolested.
					
					The work of enlisting and organizing troops in Indiana continued. In a little more than
						a month, 30,000 three-years soldiers had enlisted and been organized. With but little
						assistance Indiana regiments had fought the battles of Richmond and Munfordsville, and
						prevented the enemy from advancing upon Cincinnati and Louisville, and had assisted in
						driving the invaders out of Kentucky.
					All this time the Indiana Legion and "Minute Men," or armed citizens, had guarded the
						borders of the State, and prevented bands of guerrillas from crossing the Ohio. For
						nearly four hundred miles the river was patrolled, and about 4,000 Confederate prisoners
						guarded at Indianapolis. Every demand made upon Indiana by the General Government, or by
						"neighboring States" was promptly and willingly met.
					In May, 1863, Captain Hines, with a company of men belonging to Morgan's cavalry, made
						a raid in southern Indiana, and succeeded in capturing a number of horses and plundering
						a few houses. All except Hines and a few of his men were captured; a few were killed and
						drowned in trying to make their escape.
				

				

				
					CHAPTER XXX.

					Morgan's Raid in Indiana.

					Have you read of Genral John Morgan, and how with a large force of mounted Confederate
						troops he crossed the Ohio River and invaded southern Indiana? In times of war it is not
						unusual for an army to invade the enemy's country, and to rob, plunder and destroy much
						that comes in its  way--and I shall try to tell you about
						this raid of Morgan's; not because it is worse than others; than those perpetrated by
						the Federal troops, perhaps--but because it took place on Indiana soil, and for that
						reason particularly concerns us.
					In the summer of 1863, the position of the Confederate army in East Tennessee was
						perilous. It was threatened by strong Federal forces, and to draw off the Union troops
						and prevent an attack, General Morgan, who belonged to General Bragg's army, planned a
						raid through Kentucky, Indiana and Ohio. This, he argued, would employ the Union troops
						upon his tracks, prevent them from uniting and attacking the Confederates in Tennessee,
						and give them an opportunity to better fortify themselves. It would also give him an
						opportunity to procure a good supply of horses, of which his men stood sorely in
						need.
					His starting point was Alexandria, Tennessee; from there he pushed northward through
						Kentucky, gathering strength as he went, until he reached the Ohio River at Brandenburg,
						two miles above Mauxport, in Harrison County, Indiana, where he arrived on the morning
						of July 8th, 1863, with a force of about 2,200 mounted men.
					Two officers and a squad of men had been sent forward the day before to secure boats
						for crossing the river. Shortly after they reached Brandenburg, the steamer J. T.
						McCombs ran up to the wharf. No sooner had she touched than they boarded her, made
						prisoners of the crew, and took possession of the boat. As fortune would have it, the
						Alice Dean soon came steaming around the bend; they ran the McCombs out into the river
						and had no difficulty in capturing her. This gave the means of crossing the Ohio, and
							 when Morgan arrived, the boats were ready to convey his
						troops to the Indiana side.
					The report that Morgan's men had captured the two steamboats was quickly carried to
						Mauxport, and Lieutenant Irvin at once sent a messenger to Corydon for troops to assist
						in preventing them from landing. About the same time the steamer Lady Pike came up the
						river; she was sent back to Leavenworth for artillery and gunners, and in a few hours
						returned with a six-pound gun, and thirty men under Captain Lyon. They landed two miles
						below the town that they might not be seen by the Confederates, and hauled the gun by
						hand to Mauxport, where Colonel Timberlake and about one hundred of the Indiana Legion
						had assembled.
					Dragging the gun with them, they proceeded to a point opposite Brandenburg, where the
						captured boats lay. Planting their gun in front of an old house opposite the landing,
						they waited for a heavy fog to clear away, and when it had risen, Morgan's men could be
						seen preparing to cross.
					Several shots were fired at them, but the Confederate guns were soon trained on the
						artillerymen, and they were forced to fall back, dragging their gun with them. The
						militia stationed along the bank to prevent them from crossing were fired upon, and
						although they bravely defended themselves, they were so small in number that they were
						compelled to retreat. A party of Morgan's men landed, captured the gun and took several
						prisoners. Seeing that they were greatly outnumbered, the militia, fell back toward
						Corydon, but a skirmish was kept up with the invaders until they reached a point six
						miles from Corydon, where Colonel Jordon with 200 of the Legion had formed a line of
						battle.
					
					During this time the remainder of Morgan's men were crossing the river. They were
						interrupted in this by a little gun-boat, and later by two steamers fitted up with
						batteries, which opened fire upon them. No particular harm was done, but Morgan's force
						was divided, a portion having gone in pursuit of the militia, while the remainder were
						prevented from crossing the river for several hours. Finally the boats were driven off
						by the invaders' guns and they crossed without further delay.
					After the battle of Tippecanoe, which ended the trouble with the Indians, there had
						been no war in Indiana, so when the news was received that Morgan threatened to cross
						the Ohio River with a large force of men, capture Indianapolis, release the 4,000
						Confederate prisoners confined at Camp Morton, and capture or destroy the arsenal where
						the military supplies were kept, the people were greatly alarmed, and when it was
						reported that the Confederates had actually invaded the State, there was wide-spread
						consternation.
					At this time all the Indiana troops were in the field except two companies, which were
						doing duty at the Soldiers' Home at Indianapolis, a small number of recruits and a few
						exchanged prisoners. The State was in no condition to defend her borders. True, the
						militia was organized, but not trained; it was simply a collection of citizens,
						undisciplined and not well armed. A small number were better drilled, but they were too
						few to be very effective. There were not more than 200 mounted troops in the State,
						besides a small company of citizens using their own horses. What could they do against
						an army of more than 2,000 well trained cavalry?
					
					As soon as Governor Morton learned that Morgan was marching northward through Kentucky,
						he ordered out the militia along the borders to prevent him from crossing the river.
						Some of these companies were sent to Louisville at the request of the General in command
						there, and some Michigan troops were ordered to this State.
					You will remember that large numbers of Indiana soldiers had been sent to the
						assistance of Kentucky, and when Governor Morton received the news that Morgan was on
						the banks of the Ohio, preparing to cross, he sent an earnest request to General Boyle,
						who was in command of the forces in Kentucky, to send troops to prevent him. General
						Boyle made no reply. Again and again Governor Morton requested that our own troops be
						sent to our assistance. After the third message had been received, General Boyle sent
						the following reply: "Morgan is near Corydon, and will either move upon New Albany or
						the interior of the State. He has no less than 4,000 men and six pieces of artillery.
						General Hobson, in pursuit of him, is at Brandenburg, and has sent for transports to
						cross his forces. Your cities and towns will be sacked and pillaged if you do not bring
						out your State forces." General Boyle seemed to have forgotten how promptly Indiana
						responded to his call for troops to defend Kentucky and did not offer to assist us, even
						with our own men.
					However, Governor Morton had not relied upon receiving help from General Boyle, and had
						lost no time in securing ammunition and cars for transporting men. He published a
						general order, announcing that Morgan had invaded Indiana, and ordered all able-bodied
						men south of the National Road to form themselves into companies, elect officers,  perfect themselves in drill, and as far as possible, to
						secure horses and arm themselves.
					Citizens in other parts of the State were also requested to form companies and to be
						ready for service when called for. At the same time a request was sent to the commander
						of the river fleet for gun-boats to prevent Morgan from recrossing the river. A request
						was also telegraphed General Burnside to send back the troops and artillery sent to
						Kentucky a few days before; and as it was believed that the invaders would attempt to
						recross the river between Louisville and Madison, he urged that it be guarded from
						Louisville to Lawrenceburg. This was done. General Boyle was ordered to patrol the
						river, and General Burnside assured Governor Morton that he should have sufficient
						National troops to resist the invaders.
					At Governor Morton's suggestion, a number of ordinary river steamers were fitted up as
						gun-boats, and Lieutenant George Brown, of the United States navy, who was at
						Indianapolis on leave, was placed in command of the fleet. In addition to this, Governor
						Morton purchased arms for the use of the cavalry force, and the men at the arsenal were
						put to work making ammunition.
					Prominent citizens in many counties were requested to organize all the able-bodied men
						in their neighborhood into companies, and to provide them with blankets and bring them
						to Indianapolis as early as possible, and men were sent through the country to secure
						volunteers.
					While the Governor and other officials were thus busy preparing to meet the invaders,
						the people all over the State were gathering in such numbers as could not have been
						imagined. In less than twenty-four hours after the call for  volunteers, 5,000 men were ready for service and 10,000 were on the way to the
						capital. Within two days 20,000 men had mustered, and notice was received that 45,000
						men were organized and ready for service, making a total of 65,000 men gathered in
						defense of the State within forty-eight hours; this, too, in the busiest time of the
						year.
					The farmers were in the midst of harvest. So many men were already in the war that it
						was difficult to secure sufficient help to gather in the grain. The crops were ripe, and
						to neglect them would mean a great loss to the owners. But they did not for a moment
						hesitate; the grain was left to perish in the fields, merchants left their stores,
						mechanics deserted their shops, students threw aside their books, and old and young,
						rich and poor, swarmed in great numbers to the capital city or to the nearest towns.
					Indianapolis was the central mustering place, and it became an immense barracks. The
						camps were overflowing, vacant lots and buildings were full of soldiers, halls, lofts
						and streets became their sleeping places. Railroad trains came rushing in every hour,
						filled with "shouting men." Wagons loaded with them came pouring into the city from the
						nearest districts, leaving a long line of cloud-like dust behind them.
					The work of organizing such a force was indeed great. General Carrington came from Ohio
						to assist in mustering the men. Major-General Wilcox was in command of the District of
						Indiana and Michigan. Major-General Lew Wallace, at the request oif Governor Morton, was
						detailed to assist in the defenses of the State; General Hascall was placed in command
						of the defenses at Indianapolis. Captain Farquhar was appointed Brigadier-General of the
						State  troops and was sent to Evansville to organize the
						militia for the protection of the river borders. Major-General Mansfield was sent to
						take charge of the troops and to bring out the militia on the way. Colonel Fribarger was
						sent to organize the artillery, and other officers were called into service as they were
						needed.
					But what had Morgan been doing all this time? After crossing the river he marched
						directly northward toward Corydon, plundering as he went. He met resistance from the
						militia, but so greatly outnumbered them that he had but little difficulty in reaching
						the old State capital, where he opened his artillery upon the little band of defenders,
						who found themselves almost surrounded by a veteran force eight times as great as their
						own, and were forced to surrender 345 of their men. (These were afterward paroled by
						Morgan.) Three of the militia were killed and three wounded, one of whom died, and one
						man died from heat and exhaustion.
					Morgan and his chief officers took quarters in a hotel in the town, while his men broke
						into the stores and dwellings, taking what they wished, and destroying what they could
						not take. They robbed the county treasury, made milling firms pay them large sums of
						money to ransom their mills from fire, and compelled the women to cook food for them.
						They took two prominent citizens prisoners, while entering the town, made them ride at
						the head of the column, and threatened to shoot them if they were fired upon.
					After securing all the horses for miles around, and resting a few hours, they rode out
						of Corydon, leaving their own worn-out steeds and eleven of their wounded men. A few
						miles from Corydon they killed a man for trying to avoid capture and shot and wounded
						two boys.
					
					After leaving Corydon, Morgan divided his force, sending one detachment on the right to
						Greenville, in Floyd County, another on the left to Paoli, in Orange County, while the
						main body continued northward to Palmyra, in Harrison County. By thus dividing his army
						he confused the authorities, and left a doubt as to where he intended to strike.
					After securing all the horses in the country through which they passed, plundering and
						destroying as they went, they again united at Salem, in Washington County, on the
						morning of the 10th. They entered the town without difficulty, easily dispersing the
						badly armed troops that came out to meet them, and capturing a company of Legion men,
						and forcing others to retreat. They burned the railroad depot, destroyed bridges, tore
						up the track, plundered stores and dwellings, and in short repeated the work of the
						previous day. There were never such depredations committed in Indiana.
					The raiders took things they did not want and for which they had no use, for the mere
						pleasure it gave them, only to throw them away. Bolts of muslin and dress goods, bird
						cages, skates, tinware and buttons, silverware--anything that attracted their attention
						was taken from the stores and houses. Food they had in abundance, and where they could
						not find it prepared, they compelled the women to cook it for them.
					They did not remain long in Salem, but again turned northward toward Indianapolis; but
						Morgan soon discovered this to be a dangerous route and changed his course. By this time
						the State troops had been organized and strong detachments stationed at Mitchell, in
						Lawrence County, and  at Seymour, in Jackson County; both
						these towns were situated on the Ohio and Mississippi Railroad, which lay directly in
						front of Morgan's moving army. A large number of cars had been collected at these
						places, which could convey the soldiers to any point in either direction. The
						Confederates must cross this road, between these armies, before they could reach
						Indianapolis, where a still greater force awaited them.
					Morgan also learned that General Hobson with a large cavalry force, had crossed the
						Ohio River and was pursuing him, thus cutting off all retreat, and that the forces of
						the State were rapidly forming and would soon bear down upon him in every direction. His
						only safety lay in flight. Quickly changing his course to the eastward, he hurried
						toward the Ohio River, apparently with the intention of crossing before he could be
						intercepted. He continued this course, passing through Canton and New Philadelphia, in
						Washington County, to Vienna, in Scott County; here he stopped long enough to burn some
						railroad bridges and capture the telegraph operator, and by "tapping the wires" learned
						of the work being done by the State authorities, and that orders had been given to fell
						trees across all the roads over which he was liable to travel, to obstruct the passage
						of his army. He then proceeded to Lexington, the county seat of Scott County, and camped
						for the night.
					The next morning he started in a northerly direction toward Vernon, in Jennings County,
						throwing out detachments toward Madison, to prevent the troops assembled there from
						moving against him. North Vernon was an important railroad crossing and was guarded by
						the State troops. Vernon, but a few miles away, was also guarded.  Not caring to make an attack, Morgan sent a flag of truce to the commanding
						officer, Colonel Williams, demanding a surrender, and threw out some skirmishers as
						though going to attack the town.
					Colonel Williams refused to surrender, and Morgan sent a second flag of truce, with a
						second demand to surrender. In the meantime General Love had arrived, and the flag was
						returned with a message demanding Morgan himself to surrender.
					By this time our force had increased to 1,000 men, and General Love prepared to fight.
						He sent a request to Morgan for two hours in which to remove the women and children.
						Morgan granted him thirty minutes, and they were hurried into a woods near by, where
						they were out of danger; the guns were placed in position, and the troops arranged to
						the best advantage.
					A detachment of Morgan's men tried to get in between the towns, which caused a slight
						skirmish, but they made no attack. While all this was taking place, the main portion of
						Morgan's army had quietly slipped away, and was moving off toward Dupont, in Jefferson
						County. In fact, he had no intention of fighting, but only made a pretense to attract
						the attention of the State troops while he removed his men. The next morning General
						Wallace with a force of men from Indianapolis, and General Hughs with a force from
						Mitchell, arrived at Vernon, but the wily chief and his band had escaped.
					At Dupont the invaders camped, repeated the depredations of the previous days, burning
						bridges, destroying railroads, telegraphs, and fields of grain, and robbing and
						plundering as was their habit. They raided a large packing  house, and each man rode away with a ham of meat adorning his saddle. The next
						morning they again turned toward the Ohio and Mississippi Railroad, capturing horses,
						burning and plunder as they went. Dashing into Versailles, they captured Colonel Cravens
						and 300 men, made a prisoner of the county treasurer, robbed the treasury, and plundered
						the stores and dwellings in their own fashion.
					All this time the State troops were bearing down upon Morgan in sufficient numbers to
						have crushed him, had not the rapidity of his movements prevented them from coming
						together; besides it was very difficult to pursue a body of mounted men with infantry
						transported by railroad.
					General Hobson was pursuing Morgan, and was sometimes not more than twenty-five miles
						behind him, but his horses were worn and jaded, while Morgan's were fresh, since in his
						flight he had taken all the good ones out of the country, leaving his worn out horses in
						their places. Another serious difficulty in the way of capturing Morgan was the lack of
						correct information concerning his movements. He was a cunning foe, and always left
						doubt as to his real intentions, and many conflicting reports reached the authorities
						and greatly confused them.
					Leaving Versailles, the Confederates continued their course toward the Ohio and
						Mississippi Railroad, reaching Osgood, where they captured the telegraph operator. They
						then proceeded to Pierceville and Milan, destroying property as they went. As they
						neared Sunman their pickets encountered 2,500 militiamen and a regiment of minutemen,
						which caused a slight skirmish, and the invaders turned toward the Ohio River, burning
						bridges and destroying railroad property as they went. Passing through Hubbell,  New Alsace and Logan, they reached the Ohio border at
						Harrison, and passed out of the State on the 13th, closely pursued.
					Having followed Morgan on his raid through Indiana, we will pursue him no further,
						except to say that he was followed in his flight through Ohio, and was captured near the
						eastern boundary of the State, and he and his greatly diminished force were confined in
						the Ohio Penitentiary, from which Morgan and seven of his men afterward escaped and made
						their way to Richmond, Virginia.
					The brilliant scheme of the Confederate General resulted in his defeat and capture, and
						thus ended the war in Indiana.
				

				

				
					CHAPTER XXXI.

					After the War--Educational Advancement--Taxes.

					The war for the Union ended with the surrender of General Lee's army, April 9, 1865,
						and soon afterward the Federal soldiers began to return. As rapidly as the Indiana
						regiments were mustered out of service, they hastened to their homes and families.
					There was great rejoicing over the news of Lee's surrender. The deep gloom that had
						rested over the country for four long years began to disperse, and the people began to
						take a more hopeful view of the future. But their rejoicing was again changed to horror
						and gloom a few days later, when the news flashed over the land that President Lincoln
						had been treacherously assassinated; and when the remains of that great and good man
						were brought to Indianapolis,  and lay in state at the old
						Capitol building, thousands of people thronged the city to pay tribute to his greatness
						and to express their grief at his loss.
					Again there was joy all over the land when our soldiers began to arrive; there was also
						much sorrow, for many a brave man laid down his life for his country, and thousands of
						homes were made desolate.
					The general government had serious problems to solve concerning the South and the
						recently freed slaves, and the bitterness between the sections which this terrible war
						had caused could not be expected to disappear with the laying down of arms.
					There were those who contended that the States could not secede, and that the Southern
						States had really never been out of the Union, and were therefore entitled to
						representation in the General Government. Others maintained that since the South had
						seceded, it should be ruled as a conquered territory, and the government of the Southern
						States reconstructed.
					The mass of ignorant, untrained negroes, suddenly thrown upon their own resources, with
						neither the means nor the ability to take care of themselves, who knew not what to do
						with their newly acquired freedom, and had no idea of self-government, was another grave
						problem which confronted statesmen, and it was a long time before the settled policy of
						the government could be defined. But as these matters more directly concern the General
						Government than they do Indiana, we shall not consider them here, but will confine
						ourselves to subjects immediately touching our own State and her people.
					The war had cost Indiana large sums of money, and it 
						taxed the State heavily to meet the obligations it had assumed. The business interests
						of the people, too, had been greatly disturbed by the war, and many men returned to find
						their business ruined and their farms neglected and in great need of repair. The
						question uppermost in the mind of every soldier was what he should do to establish
						himself in business, and how he could best take care of himself and family.
					Many thousands returned home sick from wounds and disease; many of these died, while
						others were so broken in health that they could not assume the avocations for which they
						were fitted. But after a while each found his place, and soon the soldier settled down
						into the citizen and assumed the ordinary duties of citizenship. Many of the veterans
						emigrated to Kansas and other Western States, where many of them secured lands from the
						government, and assisted in bringing about the wonderful development of the great
						West.
					Some of them returned to the business they abandoned to enter the army; others engaged
						in new enterprises, and soon the business of the shops and stores and farms, as well as
						that of the professions, was being conducted as though it had not been interrupted by
						four long years of cruel war. The sound of the drum and bugle gave place to the sounds
						of peaceful occupations, and the attention of the people was again turned to the
						development of the resources of the State; to the building of railroads and telegraphs,
						to draining the land, improving the farms and roads, and extending the commerce of the
						State. Since that time the growth and development of Indiana has been strong and
						steady.
					But in no particular has there been greater advancement 
						than along the lines of education. After the adoption of the Constitution of 1851, which
						provided for a general and uniform system of common schools, the friends of education
						were earnest in their efforts to improve the condition of the schools in the State. The
						breaking out of the civil war arrested this progress for a time, but after its close the
						attention of the people was again called to this matter, and laws were enacted to
						promote the cause of education.
					In 1865, the State Normal School was established for the professional training of
						teachers. County Teachers' Institutes were also established (the State Teachers'
						Institute was established in 1854), and the State Board of Education was changed to
						consist largely of professional educators.
					Since that time the influence of the State Board of Education has been felt throughout
						the State. Through its efforts and that of other friends of education the standard of
						scholarship of teachers has been raised, and laws governing the educational affairs of
						the State have from time to time been made. In 1873 the management of the school system
						in the counties was placed in the hands of County Superintendents. They were made
						responsible for the management of the school funds in their counties, and were required
						to visit the schools and look after the progress and work of the teachers. Marked
						improvement has been the result. Well furnished and substantial buildings have taken the
						place of the log or rough frame school-house, and the visits of the Superintendents have
						stimulated both teachers and pupils to greater exertion.
					In 1883, the Indiana Reading Circle was established, and six years later Township
						Teachers' Institutes were held, all of which have aided in raising the standard of
						education in Indiana.
					
					For many years the selection of text-books for the use of schools was made by the
						County Boards of Education, and as a consequence a great number and variety of books
						were used in the public schools. In 1889 the General Assembly enacted a law authorizing
						the State Board of Education to act as a Text-Book Commission, and to select a uniform
						series of common school text-books to be used by the schools of the State. The price of
						school books was thereby greatly reduced, and a burden lifted from off the school
						patrons caused by the frequent changes in the school books and the exorbitant prices
						charged for them by publishers and dealers.
					Through the efforts of the State Board of Education, a system of graded schools has
						grown up in the State, which has been a great benefit to the education of the children.
						Out of this system has grown a tendency to centralize the schools, to abolish many of
						the small district schools and establish graded schools in central localities. The
						result of this effort has been most satisfactory. In some of the remote districts public
						conveyances are sent to carry the children to and from school, the expense being much
						less than that of maintaining schools in thinly populated districts, while the children
						are given the advantages of the graded schools.
					As a result of this system of graded schools the attendance at the high schools,
						colleges and normals has greatly increased, and the needs of the children are more fully
						met.
					An ideal school system has been the outgrowth of these years of legislation, toil and
						struggle, which embraces three distinct divisions, which are called primary, secondary
						and higher education. The primary division is represented by  the country and city graded schools, the secondary by the high schools in
						both the country and cities, the higher by the universities and colleges.
					This great school system, which is equaled by no other State in the Union, places
						Indiana in the advance in all educational affairs, and has won for her the distinction
						of having established the model public school system of the United States.


					
						TAXES.

						To meet the expenses of the government, pay the public officers of the State,
							counties, townships and towns, to make public improvements, build roads, bridges,
							streets, court houses, school-houses and jails and keep them in repair, to support the
							benevolent and reformatory institutions, to educate the children, take care of the
							poor, and carry on other work of public benefit, there must be a fund, or an amount of
							money collected from the people of the State; and so a tax is levied on the private
							property of the ctizens and on that of companies and corporations.
						A tax is an amount of money required to be paid by property-owners to meet the
							expense of the government. To levy a tax means to fix the amount to be paid on each
							one hundred dollars worth of property. This is called a property tax. This method of
							raising money to pay the expense of the State government was not looked upon with very
							great favor by the early settlers, who found it very difficult to meet this demand
							made upon them, but they soon grew accustomed to it and came to consider it a fair and
							equal measure, and it became the settled policy of the State government.
						
						Every four years, an officer called a Township Assessor, together with his
							assistants, examines all real estate--that is, all lands and houses--in his township,
							and determines or fixes their value. This is called an "assessment for taxation," or
							"valuation of property."
						After all the Township Assessors in a county have performed this work, they make a
							report to the "County Board of Review," which is composed of the County Assessor,
							Auditor, Clerk of the Court and two land-owners, or "free-holders," in the county.
							This Board of Review examines the reports of these Assessors, to see if they are
							correct, to rectify mistakes and equalize the valuation of property--that is, should
							they find that property in one township is assessed higher or lower than the same
							class of property in another township, they equalize it, or make it the same in all
							the townships.
						After this is done, a report of the number of acres of land in each township, a
							report of the amount of the assessment on land and property, the number of miles of
							railroad in the county, and the names of the companies owning it, is sent to the
							Auditor of State, who places it before the State Board of Tax Commissioners. This
							board examines the reports sent from all the counties, to see if all assessments have
							been made according to the law, and to equalize the valuation of property in the
							different counties, just as the County Board of Review did among the townships, and to
							see that all taxes due the State are paid. It also levies a tax on the railroad,
							telegraph, telephone and other companies, and transacts other business connected with
							the taxes of the State.
						After this is done, the Auditor of State sends a report to each County Auditor, and
							from this report the property in  the county is
							assessed. The County Auditor then makes a list of all persons assessed for taxes, with
							the value of their property.
						Having equalized the value of all the property in the different counties, a tax of a
							few cents on each hundred dollars worth of property is levied for State purposes,
							which must be collected by the County Treasurers and paid to the State Treasurer. The
							amount of this levy is fixed by the Legislature.
						The Board of County Commissioners, under the direction of the County Advisory Board,
							fixes the amount of county tax, and with the list of taxpayers and the value of their
							property, the amount due from each property-owner is estimated. This amount must be
							paid to the County Treasurer within a certain time or it becomes delinquent, and a per
							cent is added to the original amount, and if he still fails to pay, enough of his
							property may, after a certain time, be sold for tax.
						The Township Trustee, with the consent of the County Commissioners, also levies a tax
							for township purposes, and cities and towns levy another tax for their expenses. In
							addition to the property tax, there is another tax called a "poll" tax, which is a tax
							collected of every person entitled to vote, who is under fifty years of age. The
							State, county, township and cities or towns may each assess a poll tax, which is added
							to the property tax and collected in the same manner.
					
				

				

				
					CHAPTER XXXII.

					Penal and Benevolent Institutions.

					In every country and in all times there have been men and women who would not obey the
						laws made for their government unless compelled to do so; for this reason a law would be
						of no use if there were no penalty for its violation. And so, for every law made for our
						government, there is a punishment for those who disobey it. Sometimes it is a fine;
						sometimes it is imprisonement, and in certain cases it is death.
					In every county in Indiana a jail has been built, where those arrested for crime may be
						placed for safe-keeping until tried by the court, and where persons guilty of small
						offenses may be confined as a punishment. However, not all persons arrested for crime
						are confined in jail; for most offenses the accused may, with good security, give bond,
						or "bail," in the payment of a certain sum of money, if he fails to appear to answer to
						the charges made against him.
					In addition to the county jails, the State has erected four prisons, where those
						convicted of crime may be sent for punishment and reformation. These institutions are
						called "The Indiana State Prison," "The Indiana Reformatory," "The Indiana Reform School
						for Boys" and "The Indiana Industrial School for Girls and Women's Prison."
					The Indiana State Prison is a prison for men. It was erected at Michigan City in 1860.
						Here all "life prisoners" and criminals over thirty years old are sent.
					The Indiana Reformatory is situated at Jeffersonville. It  was the first prison erected by the State. It was called the Indiana Penitentiary and
						was built in 1822. (Other buildings have since been erected.) In the beginning all
						criminal, men, women, boys and girls, were sent here, whatever their crime may have
						been; hardened murderers and boys and girls guilty of their first offense were confined
						under the same roof. In time it became too small to contain the mass of law-breakers
						gathered there, and another prison was erected at Michigan City, and later a separate
						prison for women, and reform schools for girls and boys were built.
					In 1897 the "indeterminate sentence" method of dealing with criminals was adopted in
						Indiana, and the prison at Jeffersonville was changed into a "reformatory," while the
						prison at Michigan City remained a penitentiary. All life prisoners and those over
						thirty years old were sent to Michigan City, and those under thirty years of age were
						brought to Jeffersonville. Here the object is to try to reform these wrong-doers and
						]make honest citizens of them.
					Under the indeterminate system the term of imprisonment is not fixed by the jury which
						convicts a man, or finds him guilty, but is determined by the Board of Prison Managers,
						and the time they fix depends upon the conduct of the prisoner himself; thus by good
						behavior he may shorten his term of imprisonment, while if his conduct is vicious and
						unruly, the time is lengthened, and he may be sent to the prison at Michigan City and
						punished to the full extent of the law.
					The Indiana Industrial School for Girls and Women's Prison is located at Indianapolis.
						It was established in 1873, at which time the women and girls were taken from the
						penitentiary at Jeffersonville and placed there. Two 
						separate institutions are here combined under one management. In the Women's Prison the
						convicts, or criminals, are confined and subjected to rigid rules. The Industrial School
						for Girls, although in the same building, is completely and distinctly separated from
						the prison. Girls between the years of eight and sixteen, who are incorrigible or
						vicious, or who have been guilty of violating the law, are sent here to remain until
						they are eighteen years old, unless sooner placed in good homes. They are required to
						attend school and are taught to perform useful labor, and an effort is made to reform
						them and teach them to be honest, useful women.
					The Indiana Reform School for Boys is located near Plainfield, and was opened for the
						reception of boy criminals in 1868, at which time all the prisoners under sixteen years
						old were taken from the Jeffersonville Penitentiary and placed there. Boys between the
						ages of eight and sixteen who have committed crime, or who are incorrigible or vicious,
						may be sent there until they are twenty-one years old, unless sooner released for good
						behavior. They are required to attend school and are taught a trade by which they may
						earn a living when they leave the school, and every effort is made to make good men of
						them.
					Each of these prisons, which are called "penal institutions," is under the control of a
						Board of Trustees, appointed by the Governor; that of the Girls' Industrial School and
						Women's Prison being composed of women, the others of men. The Indiana State Prison is
						in charge of a warden, the others are under the care of superintendents.
					The men who framed our Constitution and made our laws recognized our duty to the
						unfortunate people of our State,  and provided that a
						number of institutions, called "Benevolent Institutions," should be built and supported
						by the State government.
					These institutions are called "The Indiana Institution for the Education of the Blind,"
						"The Indiana Institution for the Education of the Deaf," "The Indiana Soldiers' and
						Sailors' Orphans' Home," "The State Soldiers' Home," "The School for Feeble-Minded
						Youth," and four Hopitals for the Insane, located respectively at Indianapolis,
						Logansport, Evansville and Richmond. Large and appropriate buildings have been erected
						at each of these places, and here the men and women who have lost their reason from
						disease and other causes are cared for by physicians and attendants employed by the
						State.
					The Central Hospital for the Insane is the oldest of these hospitals; it was built in
						1847, and stands in the midst of large and beautiful grounds west of the city of
						Indianapolis. Here more than a thousand patients are constantly cared for. Large as this
						hospital is, it is not large enough to contain all that class of unfortunates, and in
						1881 the Legislature appropriated money to build three other hospitals for the insane.
						One of these was built at Logansport and is called "The Northern Hospital for the
						Insane," or "Longcliff;" one at Evansville, called "The Southern Hospital for the
						Insane," and one at Richmond, called "The Eastern Hospital for the Insane." At each of
						these institutions the patients receive the same care and attention given those at the
						Central Hospital.
					The Indiana Institution for the Education of the Blind was established by an act of the
						Legislature in 1844-45. In the beginning the school was conducted in a rented building;
							 afterward ground was purchased at Indianapolis, and in
						1850 the present building was completed. It was then considered quite "out of town," but
						now it stands in the heart of the city, in the midst of beautiful and well kept grounds.
						Boys and girls under the age of twenty-one years are admitted to this school and are
						taught to read by the aid of the fingers. Many other useful things are taught, music
						receiving special attention, and some of the pupils become skillful musicians. Besides
						music and lessons from books, they are taught to perform many kinds of work which are
						useful to them in after life.
					The Indiana Institution for the Education of the Deaf was established about the same
						time the school for the blind was opened. The Legislature adopted a private school which
						was being conducted at Indianapolis, and purchased a tract of land east of the city, and
						in 1850 the main portion of the present building was completed. Here those boys and
						girls who are unable to hear or speak are educated in the "sign language." They, too,
						are taught trades and diferent kinds of employment.
					Indiana has always been among the first to care for her unfortunate citizens. Ours was
						the first State in the Union to provide a State institution for the insane and the first
						to establish a separate prison for women. Nor has she forgotten those who risked their
						lives to defend the Union, but has established homes for the Union veterans and their
						widows and orphan children.
					The Indiana Soldiers' and Sailors' Orphans' Home.--Immediately after the close of the
						civil war a soldiers' home was established by private subscription at what was known as
						the "Knightstown Springs," in Rush County. Soon the 
						
						
							SOLDIER'S & SAILOR'S, MONUMENT.
						
						 orphan children of soldiers were also admitted, and all
						were supported by private means.
					In 1867 the Legislature assumed the support of the home, and it became the property of
						the State. In 1872 the soldiers were removed to the National Home at Dayton, Ohio, and
						the children were left in possession of the home at Knightstown. A few years later the
						feeble-minded children of the State were also included at the home, but were soon
						removed to a separate institution.
					Since that time the institution has remained the Indiana Soldiers' and Sailors'
						Orphans' Home. Twice the buildings have been destroyed by fire and new ones erected in
						their places. At this home the orphan children of Union soldiers and sailors are
						educated and taught some useful trade by which they may become self-supporting.
					The Indiana State Soldiers' Home.--From the time the soldiers were removed from the
						home at Knightstown until the year 1895 there was no State home for soldiers in Indiana.
						A National home had been located at Marion, Indiana, but it soon became crowded. Through
						the influence of the Grand Army of the Republic the Legislature of 1895 enacted a law to
						establish a State home for needy veterans and their wives and widows. About 250 acres of
						land was donated to the State by the citizens of LaFayette and Tippecanoe County,
						through the Grand Army of the Republic, and here, near the Tippecanoe battle-ground,
						where General Harrison and the Territorial troops defeated the designs of Tecumseh and
						the Prophet and destroyed the power of the Indians in Indiana, a home for the Union
						veterans and their wives and widows has been established.
					The School for Feeble-Minded Youth,--There yet remains 
						another class of unfortunate children--the most unfortunate of all--for which the State
						has provided. In 1887, the Legislature appropriated money for the erection of a Home for
						the feeble-minded children of the State, to be located at Fort Wayne. As soon as
						completed these children were taken from the Soldiers' and Sailors' Orphans' Home and
						placed in this institution, where they are carefully taught such things as they can
						understand. Those who are capable of learning are taught various kinds of work. Each of
						these institutions is under the management of a Board of Trustees appointed by the
						Governor.
				

				

				
					CHAPTER XXXIII.

					The State Militia.--War with Spain.

					It was very necessary in the early days of Indiana, that the people should unite and
						form some kind of an organization by which they could defend themselves against the
						attacks of the savages, and while yet a territory, military companies were formed for
						this purpose, and were called the militia.
					The word "militia" means "a body of men in a State, enrolled for discipline, but
						engaged in actual service only in emergencies," thus differing from the "regulars" or
						United States troops, whose occupation is war, or military service.
					The Territorial militia was frequently called into service to quell the Indian
						outbreaks. When Indiana became a State, the Indian troubles were still fresh in the
						memories of the people; in fact there was still danger from some of  the dissatisfied tribes who were jealous of the approach of the whites and
						still clung to their old hunting-grounds along the rivers and streams.
					When the State Constitution was adopted in 1816, it provided for a State militia, and
						the early Governors, in their messages to the Legislature, urged that companies be
						formed, that in case of war with the savages, or any foreign power, they might be
						prepared to meet it.
					For several years the militia force was strong in Indiana. In 1828 there were
						sixty-five regiments, organized into seven divisions, with about 40,000 men and
						officers, and in 1832, the total number of officers and men was 50,913. The Legislature
						enacted laws for the government of the Militia, which provided that it should meet at
						stated times for a general muster and drill; this was supposed to keep alive the
						military spirit. Members of the militia absent from muster were liable to a fine, and
						for years the drills were kept up. Next to the fourth of July, "Muster Day" was the
						greatest holiday of the year, and the drills, the most exciting show.
					It must indeed, have been an imposing sight to see these companies of men marching down
						the street to the sound of the fife and drum while the gallant officers in bright
						uniforms and shoulder-straps, with plumes in their hats and swords by their sides,
						dashed up and down the lines on spirited horses, to the general delight of the
						spectators. Not unfrequently sham battles were fought, and then the interest grew most
						intense, and they were cheered to the echo by the admiring throng. True, the rank and
						file, that is, the common soldiers, had not much to boast of in the way of uniform, and
						often the squirrel rifle took the place of musket  in the
						drill, but this did not matter much to the enthusiastic on-lookers.
					The State troops accomplished but little, however, after the Indian troubles were
						settled, except to give a holiday now and then to the hard-working men and women, and
						perhaps furnish an opportunity for politicians to electioneer for their favorite
						candidates, and not unfrequently the holiday ended in a street fight, or other
						disgraceful scenes, which brought the militia into disrepute. Besides this, it was an
						expense to keep up the organization, and required a vast amount of time to perfect the
						drills, and the citizens as well as the members of the militia lost interest in it, and
						in 1834 the organization was abandoned.
					When war was declared against Mexico in 1846, the military spirit of the people was
						again stirred, and the militia was reorganized. During the years 1846-47, five regiments
						were formed under Governor Whitcomb. After the close of the Mexican War, a number of
						laws were enacted governing the militia, based on the Constitution of 1851, but they
						were ineffectual, and when the war for the Union began in 1861, there were probably not
						more than a dozen companies, composed of about 500 men, in the State. After the close of
						the war, the militia organizations were continued.
					The State militia is now called the "Indiana National Guards," and the Governor is the
						Commander-in-Chief and appoints and commissions all the officers. He may call these
						troops out whenever he considers it necessary, to suppress a riot or repel an invasion,
						and they must obey the call at once. The law divides the militia into two
						classes--called the "sedentary," and "active." The active militia  is the body of men who have actually enlisted and been mustered into the
						Indiana National Guards. The sedentary militia, is composed of all the able-bodied men
						in Indiana, between the ages of eighteen and forty-five years, who do not belong to the
						active militia. The State has the right to demand the service of all such men if
						needed.
					A man who enlists in the Indiana National Guards must serve for three years unless
						sooner discharged. After serving his term of enlistment, he may re-enlist for two years,
						but no longer. After serving the second term of enlistment, he may be put on the
						"retired list."
					The Indiana National Guards may consist of not more than forty-eight companies of
						infantry, three batteries of artillery, one signal corps, one hospital corps, and a band
						of musicians for each regiment, and each battalion of artillery.
					A company of infantry is composed of not more than seventy-two privates, a captain, two
						lieutenants, five sergeants, four corporals, and one clerk. Four companies make a
						battalion and three battalions, or twelve companies make a regiment, which is commanded
						by a colonel. A battery consists of not more than thirty-two privates, a captain, two
						lieutenants and other officers.
					The highest officer in the Indiana National Guards is a Brigadier-General, who commands
						the four regiments. Companies may be formed at any place; in case there should not be a
						sufficient number of enlistments at one place to form an entire company, parts of
						companies may be formed; these are called "platoons." The State furnishes arms and
						uniforms for the use of the officers and men, but while they are used by the troops,
						they are still the property of the State, and must be returned to the
						Quartermaster-General, whenever requested to do so.
					
					The Brigadier-General may, with the approval of the Governor, order an encampment to be
						held for one week, at any place he may select within the State, which all the active
						militia members are required to attend. The State furnishes the tents, bedding and food
						for the troops, and they are drilled every day and are subject to all the rules that
						govern the regular army.
					The Governor appoints an Adjutant-General and Quartermaster-General, who have offices
						in the State House, and keep the supplies and records of the Indiana National Guards.
						Each of these officers receives a salary for their services. The members of the militia
						receive no pay except when in camp, or in the active service of the State. Should the
						Governor order out the State militia, or any part of it, the men must obey the call at
						once.
					During the administration of Governor Matthews the Indiana National Guards was thrice
						called out--once to quiet a disturbance among the coal-miners in the southwestern part
						of the State, once at the time of the railroad strikes in July, 1894, and again to
						enforce the laws of the State at Roby, in Lake County.


					
						THE SPANISH-AMERICAN WAR.

						When the war between the United States and Spain began, and you looked on your map
							for the Island of Cuba, were you not surprised to find that Havana lies almost due
							south of the eastern part of Indiana, and that after leaving the coast of Florida, a
							few hours' sail across the Gulf of Mexico would land you on the shores of an island
							which was ruled by a government across the ocean?
						Ever since the Island of Cuba was discovered, it had been in the possession of the
							Spaniards, but for many years it  was so badly governed
							that it was the scene of frequent revolutions, which greatly annoyed its neighbors,
							the Americans. According to the laws which govern nations, the United States was
							required to prevent any war vessels from being fitted out in our country for the use
							of the Cubans against the Spanish government. The Spanish officials were so cruel in
							dealing with the enemies of Spain, that many Cuban patriots removed to the United
							States and from this safe distance, incited and encouraged revolution in Cuba. Many
							Americans who lived in Cuba, or held property interests there, suffered greatly at the
							hands of the Spanish rulers, and for years the sentiment among Americans has been that
							Spain must relinquish her claim to Cuba and grant independence to the island.
						The last revolution in Cuba was accompanied by such outrages as caused the United
							States Congress to seriously consider the matter of interference. While this subject
							was agitating the minds of the people and the President was trying to bring about
							Cuban independence, the entire country was thrown into intense excitement by the news
							of the destruction of the warship Maine, in Havana Harbor, February 15, 1898, supposed
							to be caused by the friends of Spain.
						Naturally this event hastened the demand made by Congress that Spain withdraw her
							forces from the Island of Cuba. This Spain refused to do, and Congress declared war
							against the government of Spain, April 19, 1898. Four days later President McKinley
							issued a call for 125,000 volunteers; of this number Indiana's quota was four
							regiments of infantry and two batteries of artillery. How did she respond?
						
						On the afternoon of April 25th, Governor Mount ordered the Indiana National Guard to
							assemble at Indianapolis, and called for volunteers. At sunrise the next day the
							Frankfort Company, commanded by Captain D. F. Allen, reached Indianapolis, and all day
							long the troops poured into the city. It was a repetition of the response to Governor
							Morton's call for volunteers thirty-seven years before. Many thousand men offered to
							enlist who were not allowed to go. A month later a call was made for 75,000 additional
							volunteers. In response to this call Indiana furnished one regiment and could have
							furnished many more.
						The Indiana Regiments were designated and commanded as follows: One Hundred and
							Fifty-seventh, Colonel George M. Studebaker; One Hundred and Firty-eighth, Colonel
							Harry B. Smith; One Hundred Fifty-ninth, Colonel John F. Barnett; One Hundred
							Sixtieth, Colonel George W. Gunder; One Hundred Sixty-first, Colonel Winfield T.
							Durbin. Captain James B. Curtis commanded the Twenty-seventh and Captain William F.
							Ranke commanded the Twenty-eighth Battery. Will J. McKee was appointed
							Brigadier-General by President McKinley. Two companies of colored men were recruited,
							commanded by Captains J. M. Porter and John M. Buckner. One company of engineers and
							one signal corps were also recruited in the State.
						The total number of officers and men in these commands was 7,301. Of these the Curtis
							Battery was the only one in active service, although Indiana's regiments were among
							the first to be ready to march. In addition to the State regiments, Indiana furnished
							the regular army with hundreds of men who participated in all the battles fought.  One of the most brilliant officers of the war,
							Major-General Henry W. Lawton, is an Indianian, who, after four years of service in
							the war for the Union, joined the United States army.
						The war with Spain did not last long. The Spanish navy was destroyed at Manila and
							Santiago, and its army soon lost courage. The protocol, which is the name given to the
							first paper containing an outline of the terms of peace, was signed at Washington,
							August 12, 1898.
					
				

				

				
					CHAPTER XXXIV.

					Courts--Elections.

					When people are gathered together in a town or a country, it is necessary that laws
						should be made to govern their conduct, in order to protect their lives and property,
						and to secure them from unjust treatment. Laws would be of no use if they were not
						enforced, and for this reason courts are established to decide what is lawful, and to
						compel people to obey the laws made for their government.
					The first laws which governed the inhabitants of the present State of Indiana, were
						made by the French Commandants at Post Vincennes. They were purely military laws and the
						officer making them had power to execute them. When the Northwestern Territory became
						the property of the United States, a Governor and two Judges were appointed and given
						the power to adopt such laws of the original States as they thought were suited to the
						needs of the settlers. The first of these laws were published in 1788.  The Governor and Judges continued to make the laws until
						the Territorial Legislature was formed in 1799. In 1800 the Northwestern Territory was
						divided and Indiana Territory was formed, when the power to adopt the laws was again
						given to the Territorial Governor and Judges. This form of law-making continued until
						1805, when the Indiana Territorial Legislature was organized, after which the
						Representatives and Legislative Council made the laws until Indiana became a State, and
						a State Legislature was organized.
					The first court in Indiana was established by Colonel John Todd, who was Lieutenant of
						the "Illinois County," as the territory northwest of the Ohio was called. The court was
						composed of the Commandant of Fort Vincennes and several magistrates, who had power to
						enforce, as well as to make the laws.
					The first general court of Indiana Territory was opened at Vincennes in 1801, by the
						Territorial judges. It was very difficult to enforce the law in so large a territory,
						especially in places distant from the seat of government, so the Legislature divided the
						country into three parts called "Judicial," or "Court Circuits," and arranged for
						holding court in each circuit. The Governor appointed a judge from every county in each
						of these court circuits, whose duty it was to hold court in the county to which he
						belonged.
					The State Constitution of 1816 provided for a more extensive court system. The State
						was divided into three "circuits," and the Legislature elected a judge for each circuit,
						who was called a presiding judge, and was supposed to be very learned in the law. The
						people in every county  elected two associate judges, who
						were not necessarily lawyers.
					The presiding judge traveled through his circuit, and with the assistance of the
						associate judges held court in every county. Each court circuit was very large, being
						composed of a number of counties; the counties themselves were much larger than they now
						are, so judges and lawyers were obliged to travel long distances on horse-back, through
						thinly settled parts of the country to attend court; and when they completed the
						circuit, they began over again, just as the "circuit riders" did.
					On these journeys they often stopped at some settler's cabin to spend the night. These
						humble homes were always open to travelers who brought them news from the outside world,
						and broke the monotony of their lives. Many of these lawyers were fine story-tellers,
						and to while away the long evenings, and to make themselves agreeable to their
						entertainers, they gathered with the family around the bright blazing logs in the open
						fire-place, and told them bits of their own experience, or stories they had read, or
						heard, or imagined, until far into the night. This was a favorite pastime in those days,
						when books and papers were scarce, and a good story-teller was always a welcome guest.
						The next morning the travelers continued their journey, and when they reached the place
						where they were to hold court, they often found no court-house, and the sessions were
						held at the cabin of a settler, or under the shelter of the trees.
					Besides these circuit courts, a Supreme Court was organized. This was the highest court
						in the State, and consisted of three supreme judges, who held court at the State
						capital.  As the population of the State increased, other
						counties were organized, the circuits were divided and the number of courts increased;
						thus the circuits became smaller and the number of judges greater. There are at present
						fifty-five "court circuits" in Indiana, some of them consisting of two or three
						counties, others of but one. This number may be changed by the Legislature whenever it
						is considered necessary.
					The Justice's Court.--The lowest court in the State, is held by the Justice of the
						Peace, elected by the voters of a township, who need not be a lawyer. Every township has
						one Justice of the Peace, and may have three. A suit for more than $200 cannot be
						brought before a Justice of the Peace, and only persons accused of small offenses can be
						tried by him; those accused of greater crimes may be brought before him and "bound over
						to court"--that is, their case is sent to the "Circuit Court," to be tried by the judge
						of the circuit.
					A constable is elected for every Justice of the Peace, who obeys his orders, and has
						power to arrest any person he sees commit a disorderly or criminal act. In most cities
						the Mayor may try all cases that can be tried by the Justice of the Peace.
					The Circuit Court.--In every county there is a Circuit Court, where all cases are tried
						which cannot be brought before a Justice of the Peace. The Circuit Judge presides over
						this court. Criminals are tried in the Circuit Court, and in case of the death of a
						person owning property, his estate is settled through this court. The records of the
						Circuit Court are kept by the County Clerk, and the Sheriff executes its orders.
					
					The Judge does not always decide cases tried before him, although he must always be
						present at the trial; the Constitution gives every citizen the right to a trial by jury,
						in all cases. A jury consists of twelve men selected to decide the case, and must be
						citizens of the county where the trial is held. After they have heard all that the
						witnesses on both sides have to say--which is called the testimony--they retire to a
						room called the "jury-room," and discuss the case and decide what shall be done with it.
						When the jury does not agree, the case must be tried over again.
					The Superior Court.--Sometimes there is too much business in a county for the Circuit
						Court to perform, and the Legislature creates a court called the "Superior Court." These
						Superior Courts are higher than the Justices' Courts, but not so high as the Circuit
						Courts. They cannot try criminal cases, nor settle estates; in other respects they are
						much like the Circuit Courts. But few counties in Indiana have Superior Courts.
					The Criminal Court.--In Marion County, in which Indianapolis is situated, there is a
						court called the "Criminal Court," which only tries persons charged with crime. In this
						county the Circuit Court does not try this class of persons.
					The Supreme Court.--The Supreme Court is the highest court in the State. It holds its
						sessions in the State House in Indianapolis. This court has five Judges elected by the
						people, and a clerk called the Clerk of the Supreme Court, who is also elected by the
						people. The officer who executes the orders of this court is called the Sheriff of the
						Supreme Court and is appointed by the Judges.
					The Supreme Court only tries cases which are appealed 
						from the Circuit Court; that is, when a party to a law-suit is dissatisfied with the
						decision of the Judge or the jury, he can carry it to the Supreme Court, to be tried by
						the Supreme Judges. This is called an appeal. The testimony of the witnesses and all the
						proceedings of the Circuit Court are carefully written out, and forwarded through the
						proper persons, to the Supreme Court, and examined by the Supreme Judges, who determine
						whether the case has been fairly tried according to the law; if so, they "confirm the
						decision of the lower court"--that is, they declare that the case has been properly
						tried, and fairly decided, and there can be no further action. If, however, they find
						that the proceedings do not conform to the law, or if mistakes have been made in the
						trial, they "reverse the decision"--that is, they send it back to be tried again. This
						court also decides whether the laws made by the Legislature are in harmony with the
						Constitution.
					The Appellate Court.--There is another State court called the Appellate Court, created
						temporarily, to assist the Supreme Judges to bring up the work of the Supreme Court, and
						is composed of Appellate Judges elected by the people. The proceedings of this court are
						conducted much like that of the Supreme Court.
					Attorneys at law, or lawyers, as they are commonly called, are men supposed to be
						learned in the law, who are employed to represent those who have cases in court. The
						person who employs an attorney is called a "client," and the lawyer employed looks after
						the interests of his client and sees that he is fairly treated. The person making
						complaint to the court is called the "plaintiff;" the person of whom he complains is
						called the "defendant," because it is  left for him to
						defend himself against the charges made. The decision of the jury is called the
						"verdict."
					The Grand Jury.--There is another court in each county in Indiana, called the "Court of
						the Grand Jury," which is composed of six men, called "Grand Jurors." They hold secret
						sessions to investigate and determine if any person has committed a crime in the county.
						They prescribe no penalty, or punishment for those guilty of violating the law, but draw
						up an "indictment," or complaint, and upon this they are tried in the Circuit Court.
					Supreme Judges are elected for six years; Circuit Judges for six years; Appellate
						Judges for four years; Superior Judges for four years; Justices of the Peace for four
						years.


					
						ELECTIONS.

						Every two years a general State and County election is held in Indiana. The time
							fixed by law for these elections, is the first Tuesday after the first Monday in
							November of the evenly numbered years. Town elections are held on the first Monday,
							and most city elections on the first Tuesday in May, each alternate year. To prevent
							illegal voting, each county, city and town is divided into small districts called
							"precincts." Each precinct contains not more than two hundred and fifty, nor less than
							two hundred voters. For convenience, the precincts may be changed from time to
							time.
						Each voter in Indiana must be a citizen of the United States, and must have lived in
							the State for at least six months preceding the election. He must also have lived in
							the township sixty days, and in the precinct thirty days preceding the day of the
							election. All men (except idiots  and criminals) who
							have reached the age of twenty-one years, who are citizens of the United States, who
							have lived in the State six months, in the township sixty days and in the precinct
							thirty days, are entitled to vote at all national, State and county elections.
						Before the day of election, a canvass is made by committees from each political
							party, and the name of every man entitled to vote, and the political party to which he
							belongs, is carefully recorded, and the records kept at the "polls," as the voting
							places are called, on election day; and if any suspicious person should attempt to
							vote, he may be challenged; that is, objections to his vote may be made, and he must
							prove to the satisfaction of the election officers, that he is a legal voter, before
							he is allowed to vote.
						The Board of County Commissioners appoints an election board for every precinct,
							consisting of an inspector and two judges, whose duty it is to preside at elections
							and see that they are conducted according to law. This board appoints two clerks,
							called "poll clerks," who each keep a list of the names of persons voting, and of the
							number of votes cast for each candidate. Each clerk must also write his initials on
							the back of every ballot cast.
						A ballot, is a paper on which the names of candidates are printed. The State
							furnishes the ballots on which are printed the names of the candidates for all State
							offices, and the counties furnish the ballots on which are printed the names of the
							candidates for Congress, and for county and township offices. When a man wishes to
							vote, he is given one of these printed ballots; with a pencil he marks opposite the
							name of the candidate for whom he desires to vote, and it is placed in the ballot
							box.
						
						When the polls are closed--that is, when the time has passed which is allowed for
							holding the election, the ballots are counted and burned, and the members of the
							election board sign the record of each clerk. The inspector takes one of these
							records, or certificates, as they are called, and one of the judges takes the other,
							and on Thursday following the election, the inspector meets all the other inspectors
							in the county, at the court-house, and together they count all the votes cast in the
							county.
						When this is done, they make out a certificate showing the result of the election,
							which they sign and give to the clerk of the court. From this report the clerk makes
							out a certificate of the number of votes in the county cast for candidates for State
							offices, and sends it to the Secretary of State. From these reports sent from the
							various counties, the result of the vote for State officers is obtained.
						The people do not vote directly for the President and Vice-President of the United
							States, but vote for what are called "Electors." In each State the number of electors
							is equal to the number of Senators and Representatives which the State has in
							Congress; for example, Indiana, like every State, has two Senators, and also has
							thirteen Representatives to Congress, so the number of electors to which our State is
							entitled is fifteen. Two of these electors are nominated by the parties in their State
							Conventions, and are called "electors at large," and the party conventions in each
							district nominate one elector. The names of these electors are printed on the State
							ticket, or ballot, and voted for, the same as are other candidates.
						On a certain day the electors meet at the State capital, and each one votes for the
							candidates for President and  Vice-President, which his
							party has nominated. A copy of the result of this vote is sent in a sealed package to
							the Vice-President of the United States, who is also President of the Senate, and on a
							given day both houses of Congress meet together, and tellers are appointed to count
							the votes. The Vice-President breaks the seals of all the packages received from all
							the States and reads the results, which the tellers record.
						When all the reports, or returns have been read and recorded, and the result
							obtained, the Vice-President announces that the candidate who has received the largest
							vote for President, and the candidate who has received the largest vote for
							Vice-President, are elected, and a certificate of that fact is signed by him. That
							completes the election of President and Vice-President of the United States. The man
							who is elected must have a majority of all the votes cast; that is, he must have at
							least one more than half of all the votes. If it should happen that no candidate has a
							majority, then the United States House of Representatives must elect the President and
							the Senate must elect the Vice-President, from the candidates voted for by the
							electors.
					
				

				

				
					CHAPTER XXXV.

					Roads and Highways--Drainage.

					One of the greatest difficulties which the early settlers had to encounter was the lack
						of roads through the country. The Indian trails, which were simply paths through the
						forests, made by the Indians as they traveled from one Indian  village to another, along the rivers and other streams, were the first roads
						in Indiana. When the settlers came they made roadways by cutting down such trees as
						stood in the way, and marked them by "blazing," or chopping the trees which stood on
						either side. No attempt was made to improve the roads, and the ground was so soft that
						in some seasons of the year these roads were almost, if not quite impassable. In marshy
						places, small trees, or "saplings" were cut down, chopped into pieces of the required
						length, and placed side by side across the road, to keep the horses and oxen from miring
						in the mud; these were called "corduroy roads."
					As the country settled the people of a neighborhood united and built roads by throwing
						up the ground, filling in the low places with dirt and digging trenches to carry off the
						water. These were called "dirt roads." They were an improvement over the "blazed"
						roadways, but they too, became almost impassable during some seasons of the year.
					The lack of good roads greatly retarded the commerce of the country. The internal
						improvement system which bankrupted the State, was the outgrowth of this need. The
						building of the National and Michigan roads greatly advanced the development of Indiana
						and many plans were adopted for the improvement of the road system, all of which were
						helpful, and the drainage of the land did much to aid in producing good roads, by
						carrying off the water and allowing the ground to become dry and solid.
					In building roads in Indiana, different materials were used. Portions of the National
						and Michigan roads, were built of planks, made from the great trees which covered the
						ground. In some places charcoal was used for a roadbed, 
						but both these materials were unsatisfactory; crushed stone and gravel were found to be
						the best material for road making, and as the country abounds in rich deposits of
						gravel, it has become the chief material used for country roads.
					The first gravel roads in Indiana, were built by private companies, and were the
						beginning of the present excellent road system. The companies, or corporations which
						built and kept them in repair, built toll-houses a few miles apart, in which a
						toll-keeper lived, who collected a small fee from those who traveled the road on
						horse-back, or in carriages or wagons, and for all stock driven over the road. This kept
						up the expenses of the roads, and often paid the companies owning them a good profit on
						the money invested.
					Toll roads were operated for several years, but were finally purchased by the counties
						through which they passed, and were made free to the public, the expense of keeping them
						in repair being paid by a tax on the property of those who lived in the vicinity of the
						road.
					In locating roads for the use of the public, the Board of County Commissioners have the
						power to determine where the road shall be built. The people in a community desiring a
						road, send a "petition," or written request for a road, signed by the citizens, to the
						commissioners, who, upon receiving it, appoint men, called "road viewers," to examine
						the proposed roadway, and decide if it is for the best interest of the majority of the
						people of that community, that such a road should be built, and to locate the route.
					If they report in favor of building it, the persons through whose land it passes, are
						allowed damages. Like the ditches, road-making has caused much "litigation," or law  suits among the settlers in Indiana. After the
						commissioners have decided where a road shall be located, the trustees of the townships
						through which it passes, must order it opened, and put in condition for travel. Every
						township is divided into road districts, and a road supervisor appointed in each
						district, whose duty it is to see that roads are opened and kept in repair.
					Every able-bodied man in the State, who is between the years of twenty-one and fifty,
						is required to work on the public roads in his district, from two to four days every
						year, or hire a substitute to work in his place. Those refusing to work, or furnish a
						substitute, may be arrested and fined. The road supervisor superintends the work and
						notifics the men when they are expected to work on the roads. Idiots, insane, deaf and
						dumb and blind men are not required to work on roads or to furnish substitutes.
					A tax is levied on each one hundred dollars' worth of property in a township for the
						purpose of keeping the roads in repair. When the people living near a public road, or
						highway, wish to have it made a free gravel road, they sign a petition, or written
						request, which they send to the Board of County Commissioners, who appoint men to
						investigate the case and decide whether, in their opinion, it is for the public welfare
						to build it. If they report favorably, the people whose land lies within a certain
						distance of the road, and who will be benefited by it, are taxed to procure money with
						which to build it. All bridges costing more than $25 are built and kept in repair by the
						county, smaller ones by the townships.
					Before the adoption of the present State Constitution, the Legislature made laws for
						building roads between certain  important places, and many
						roads were built under them. The highways are the property of the public, and can be
						used for no other purpose. A person obstructing, or damaging them in any way, may be
						arrested and fined.


					
						DRAINAGE.

						Before the country was settled--before Indiana became a State, and for a long time
							afterward, the land was very wet. Miles and miles of swamps, thickly grown up in
							brushwood and timber, among which lay fallen trees, overgrown with tangled vines and
							mosses, and covered with stagnant water the greater part of the year, were found in
							many parts of the State.
						The country was full of streams that frequently overflowed their banks, and during
							times of heavy rains much of the land was covered with water, which, having no outlet,
							sank into the ground and made it unfit for cultivation. Not only this, but the vapors
							arising from this stagnant and impure water, filled the air with poisonous matter
							which made it very unhealthful, and caused much sickness among the settlers. This gave
							Indiana the reputation of being a very undesirable place in which to live.
						When the land in Indiana was surveyed and placed on sale, so much of this swamp land
							was considered worthless, that Congress donated 1,264,833 acres of it to the State. To
							induce the settlers to drain the swamps, it was offered to them at a very low price,
							providing they would dig drains or trenches which would allow the water to flow from
							off the land; at the same time, the cost of the ditches was deducted from the price of
							the land.
						By and by, when farms were cleared, the settlers began 
							to see the necessity of draining the entire country to get rid of the surplus water,
							and prevent the streams from overflowing the country and damaging the land and crops;
							so they began to dig trenches, or ditches through their farms, ending them at some
							creek, or other natural outlet. In some localities where there were no such natural
							outlets for the water, very large ditches, like small canals, were dug--some of them
							many miles in length, and ending at some creek or river; these were left open, and the
							smaller ditches emptied into them. These small ditches were covered with dirt as are
							most of the ditches to-day.
						In the beginning, after a ditch was dug, pieces of timber were placed on both sides
							of the trench, and on the top of these, reaching from one side to the other, were
							placed other pieces of timber, which made a box-like opening in the middle of the
							ditch, through which the water flowed, and prevented the dirt from falling in and
							filling up the trench. After the timbers were in place, the dirt was thrown back into
							the trench and the ground cultivated as though it had not been disturbed. Later on,
							the manufacture of tile for ditch purposes, filled a long-felt want, and is now
							generally used for drainage.
						The drainage of the land has caused a great amount of trouble in the country. Laws
							were made which authorized the proper officers to order ditches made wherever it
							seemed best for the public welfare, and the land owners who were supposed to be
							benefited by them, were taxed to pay the cost. This was not always agreeable, and
							law-suits and neighborhood quarrels were often the result; but the country was greatly
							benefited, and farmers now realize that only by good drainage can land be made to
							yield the surest crops.
						
						And so from this custom of ditching the land, a great system of underground drainage
							has grown up in Indiana. Could we look a few feet beneath the surface of the ground,
							we would be interested to see the wonderful net-work of tile, which carries off the
							water that falls upon the ground. There are thousands of miles of it, and it is
							impossible to estimate the value these underground drains are to the country. They
							have carried off the excess of water from the land; the swamps have been drained by
							them and are now the most fertile parts of the country. Many of the small streams have
							entirely disappeared, and but seldom is there much damage done by floods, except in
							the region of the larger rivers and streams.
						By this system of drainage the climate has been made healthful, and chills and fever,
							once the bane of Indiana, are seldom heard of.
					
				

				

				
					CHAPTER XXXVI.

					Physical Indiana--Natural Resources.

					The name "Indiana" came from the word Indian, and of all the States in the Union, none
						have so pleasing a name to the native "Hoosier." Just when the name was first applied to
						any part of the territory is not certainly known, but it is said that a company of
						traders who bought from the Indians a tract of land lying along the Ohio River, called
						it "Indiana"--adding the final "a" to give it a feminine sound, and from this the
						Territory, and afterward the State was named. However this may be, it is an appropriate
						name, and one of which we may well be proud.
					
					We have traced the development of Indiana from the time of its earliest exploration
						until it became a great and prosperous State; now, let us talk about its physical
						aspects--that is, the surface of the country and its natural resources.
					Indiana is situated in the center of what is called the "Great Central Basin of North
						America," at nearly an equal distance from the Mississippi River on the west, and the
						Alleghany Mountains on the east, and from the Gulf of Mexico on the south, and the
						"Water-Sheds" between the Great Lakes and Hudson Bay on the north.
					The general character of the country is a gently undulating, or wave-like plain, with a
						gradual slope toward the scuthwest. There are no mountains in Indiana, but in the
						southern counties along the Ohio River, there is a line of hills extending back into the
						country from ten to thirty miles. These hills are called "The Knobs;" they are very
						picturesque, and some of them rise to a height of four or five hundred feet above low
						water in the river.
					From the Ohio River to the Wabash, the country was at one time almost entirely covered
						with a heavy growth of forest trees, through whose low spreading branches the sunlight
						could scarcely penetrate, causing a perpetual twilight by day and intense darkness by
						night, while in many places a dense growth of brushwood, made travel very difficult,
						indeed. The awful stillness of the forest was only broken by the song of the birds and
						the snarl of wild beasts.
					North of the Wabash the character of the country changed. Here also, the land was
						covered with gigantic trees, but was almost free from undergrowth, and the branches were
						so high from the ground, that it was an easy  matter for
						horsemen to ride beneath them. These timber lands were called "oak openings," although
						many walnut and other trees grew among the oaks. Many of the native trees of Indiana
						were from ninety to one hundred and twenty feet high, and some of them were five feet in
						diameter. There are more than one hundred varieties of trees native to the State, a
						large per cent. of which were valuable as timber. No State in Central United States has
						a greater variety, or more valuable trees than Indiana.
					In portions of the western and northwestern part of the State, stretch miles and miles
						of prairie lands, which, when first known, were covered with a luxuriant growth of
						grass, dotted with wild flowers of every hue. Some of these prairies were very low, wet
						marsh lands, unfit for cultivation until after the country was well drained. The
						northern part of the State is diversified by many beautiful little lakes, some of them
						quite large enough for sailing small steam yachts, and near these summer hotels have
						been built, and there many people from the cities and towns spend the hot months.
					The soil in northern Indiana is very sandy. On the northeast shore of Lake Michigan the
						winds have piled up the sand in great ridges or mounds, called "sand dunes," some of
						them 150 feet high. The soil of the greater part of Indiana is rich and productive,
						about ninety per cent. being susceptible of cultivation--that is, ninety out of every
						one hundred acres can be cultivated with the plow. A large portion of the land in
						Indiana was at one time so wet and swampy, that it was considered of little value until
						well drained.
					Before the country was settled, the forests and prairies 
						were full of birds, many varieties of which are not now found in the State. Among these
						was the bald-headed eagle, which, like the game of the forests, has long since
						disappeared. When the territory was first known, buffaloes were to be seen in countless
						numbers on the prairies of western Indiana. Elk and deer were common, as also were
						bears, wolves, panthers, beaver, otter, wild-cat, porcupines and many other animals
						which have disappeared with the forests and the red men.
					The lakes and streams were full of fish, and wild ducks, turkeys and other feathered
						game were found in great numbers on the prairies and marshes. A great variety of plants
						and ferns are native to Indiana; over a thousand species have been discovered, and more
						than fifty native grasses.
					There are other interesting facts concerning Indiana, which men have discovered by
						going beneath the surface of the ground and searching out the secrets hidden there. In
						southwestern Indiana vast beds of coal are found underlying the surface of the ground;
						in the southeastern part of the State valuable building stone is found imbedded in the
						earth, while petroleum, and natural gas are secreted hundreds of feet below the surface,
						in certain parts of the State. The hills of southern Indiana are full of wonderful
						caves, containing strange formations and beautiful scenery. One of these caves--the
						Wyandotte, in Crawford County, rivals in beauty, if not in extent, the famous Mammoth
						Cave of Kentucky. Many mineral springs and artesian wells are also found in the southern
						part of the State.
					Nature has generously provided Indiana with the sources of great wealth. It only
						requires industry and perseverance on the part of her people to develop the great
						natural  resources which have been stored up for their
						use. The first natural product of Indiana, or the first product which brought money to
						the settlers, was the furs and skins of animals. This resource has long been exhausted.
						The gigantic growth of timber, which would now be worth more than the price of the land
						on which it grew, was another natural resource. Millions of dollars' worth of this
						valuable timber was cut down and burned, to clear the land for cultivation. Coal is one
						of the most valuable of the natural products of Indiana, vast fields of which underlie
						the western and southwestern portions of the State, ranging from ten to sixty miles in
						width. Coal mines are being operated in seventeen different counties, which give
						employment to thousands of men and yield more than four millions of tons of coal every
						year.
					Another natural resource and a great wealth producing product, is the immense quantity
						of building stone which is found in several counties in the southeastern part of the
						State. No State in the Union produces better stone for building purposes than Indiana,
						and it is shipped to all parts of the United States. Some of the Government buildings
						and finest business blocks in the country are constructed of stone taken from Indiana
						stone quarries.
					Valuable deposits of fine clay is another natural resource of which Indiana can boast.
						This product is principally found in the northwestern counties. From this material
						brick, tile and different kinds of ware are made.
					The last great secret which nature has yielded to man's investigation, is the wonderful
						product of natural gas, which has been discovered in more than twenty counties in
						Indiana. Its discovery has aided in the development of 
						many industries, and greatly advanced the commerce of the State.
					Petroleum is another natural product of Indiana. The main field of this product is
						northeast of the center of the State, although it is found in smaller quantities in
						other parts of the State. Iron has been found in small quantities, but it is of inferior
						quality, and can scarcely be classed among its paying productions. Gold has also been
						found in small quantities in portions of southern Indiana.
					Aside from the natural resources of Indiana, there are many manufactured products which
						may be counted among the resources of the State. Steamboat and railroad coaches are
						built along the Ohio River, at Jeffersonville and New Albany; cars, wagons, carriages
						and other vehicles, bicycles, farming implements of iron and wood, various kinds of
						machinery, glassware, plate glass, tin-plate, zinc, tile, brick, encaustic tile,
						pottery, terra cotta, stone-ware, paper, cotton and woolen cloth and countless other
						articles are manufactured in Indiana.
					But chief among the industries of the State is agriculture, or farming. Indiana is a
						State of small farms and cozy homes. The majority of the farmers own their own farms and
						cultivate them themselves. The principal produce raised is corn, wheat, grass, or hay,
						vegetables, fruit, and live stock.
					Farming has become a great science, and the most successful farmers are those who best
						understand the soil they cultivate and the use to which it is best adapted.
				
				

				
					CHAPTER XXXVII.

					Biographical Sketches of Indiana Governors.

					William Henry Harrison, the first Governor of the Indiana Territory, was born in
						Virginia, February 9th, 1773. His father was a soldier in the Revolutionary War, and
						fought under both General St. Clair and General Wayne. On resignation of Winthrop
						Sargant, in 1796, William Henry Harrison was appointed Secretary of the Northwestern
						Territory, to serve under his father's old commander, General St. Clair, who was
						Governor of the Territory. In 1799, he was elected the first delegate to the United
						States Congress from the Northwestern Territory; and on May 13th, 1800, at the age of 27
						years, he was appointed Governor of Indiana Territory, which office he continued to fill
						until 1812, when he resigned to accept the appointment of Brigadier-General of the Army
						of the Northwestern Frontier. At the close of the war with Great Britain in 1814, he
						resigned his commission and retired to his farm at North Bend, near Cincinnati, Ohio. In
						1816, he was elected a Representative to the Congress of the United States from the
						State of Ohio, and served in this position for three years. For two years he served Ohio
						as a Senator in the State Legislature, after which he was elected United States Senator
						from Ohio. In 1840, General Harrison was elected President of the United States, and was
						inaugurated March 4th, 1841; but his career as highest officer in the nation was indeed
						brief; one month from the day he became President, he died, and was buried at his old
						home at North Bend,  Ohio. The years during which General
						Harrison served as Territorial Governor were eventful ones in the history of Indiana. It
						was his duty to preserve peace with the Indians, and to secure as much land from them as
						possible. During the twelve years he served as Governor, he succeeded in extinguishing
						the Indian titles to more than 29,000,000 acres of land. It was also his task to quell
						the outbreaks of the savages in Indiana Territory and it was through his efforts and
						good generalship that the schemes of Tecumseh and the Prophet were defeated and the
						power of the Indians broken. Governor Harrison was one of the most influential men in
						early Indiana, and was greatly loved and honored by her people.
					John Gibson, Acting Governor of Indiana Territory, was born at Lancaster, Pennsylvania,
						May 23d, 1740. When but eighteen years old he took part in a British expedition against
						the French, at Fort Du Quesne, (afterward called Fort Pitt) where the city of Pittsburg
						is now situated. After its capture, he settled at the fort amd began to trade with the
						Indians. At one time, he with other white men, was captured by the savages, and
						condemned to be burned at the stake, but his life was saved by an old squaw, who had
						lost a son in battle, and adopted the young trader to take his place in her family. He
						lived among the Indians for several years, learned their language and became familiar
						with their manners and customs. He was dissatisfied with life among the savages,
						however, and making his escape, returned to Fort Pitt, and resumed his former occupation
						of trader. When the war of the Revolution began, Colonel Gibson raised a regiment, and
						was afterward placed in command of the troops on the western frontier, and when  the war ended, he again returned to Pittsburg and continued
						to follow his old occupation of trading with the Indians. General Gibson was a member of
						the Constitutional Convention of the State of Pennsylvania, and was appointed judge of
						the court of his county, and was General of the Pennsylvania militia. In 1800, he was
						appointed Secretary of the Territory of Indiana, and before the arrival of Governor
						Harrison at Vincennes, he began to organize the Territorial government. While Governor
						Harrison was away, commanding the Northwestern troops in an expedition against the
						Indians, General Gibson became Acting Governor of Indiana Territory, performing all the
						duties of that office, as well as those of Territorial Secretary. He served in this
						double capacity for about one year. When Indiana became a State, General Gibson remained
						for a time at Vincennes; later he removed to Pennsylvania, and died near Pittsburg,
						April 10th, 1822, at the age of 82 years. General Gibson was a well educated, capable
						man; he discharged his official duties in a manner which won the confidence and esteem
						of those who knew him, and he enjoyed the merited friendship and good-will of those
						about him.
					Thomas Posey was Indiana's last Territorial Governor. He, like Governor Harrison, was a
						native of Virginia, and was born July 9th, 1750, on a farm on the banks of the Potomac
						River. In 1774, he joined an expedition against the Indians, and won distinction by his
						coolness and bravery. Like General Gibson, he was a Revolutionary soldier, and raised a
						company of men and fought for American Independence, receiving the title of Major, then
						that of General; continuing his military career, he served under  General Anthony Wayne, in the Northwestern Army, and was Captain of a
						Louisiana company, in the war of 1812. Having taken up his residence in Louisiana, he
						was elected to the Senate of that State. On March 3d, 1813, President Madison appointed
						him Governor of Indiana Territory, to succeed Acting Governor Gibson. He entered upon
						his duties as Governor at the age of 63 years. Soon afterward the Territorial Capital
						was removed to Corydon. Governor Posey, whose health was delicate, finding the climate
						did not agree with him, removed to Jeffersonville, where he continued to make his home.
						During his official term, the Constitutional Convention, which made Indiana a State, was
						held at Corydon, and by reason of this change in the government, the office of
						Territorial Governor became void. Governor Posey was a candidate for Governor of the
						State of Indiana, but was defeated by Jonathan Jennings. Afterward, he was appointed
						Indian agent for the Illinois Territory, and died at Shawneetown, Illinois, March 19th,
						1818. Governor Posey was an amiable Christian gentleman, and was active in spreading the
						truths of the Bible, and was foremost in all good works. He was tall and commanding in
						person, with a handsome face, and graceful easy manners.
					Jonathan Jennings.--After the adoption of the State Constitution of 1816, an election
						was held for the purpose of choosing a Governor for the new State. The choice fell upon
						Jonathan Jennings, and he became the first Governor of the State of Indiana. Jonathan
						Jennings was born in New Jersey, in the year 1784. After completing his education, while
						still a very young man, he removed to Jeffersonville, Indiana, where he completed the
						study of law, afterward serving as clerk of the Territorial Legislature.
					
					He was strongly opposed to the institution of slavery, which was then attracting much
						attention in Indiana Territory, and in the race for Territorial Delegate to Congress, in
						1809, he defeated Thomas Randolph, who favored it. He was re-elected Delegate to
						Congress in 1811, and again in 1813. The bill enabling Indiana to become a State, was
						reported to Congress by Mr. Jennings, and when the Constitutional Convention was held in
						1816, he was elected a delegate and was chosen president of the convention. Mr. Jennings
						was but 32 years old when he became the first Governor of Indiana. During his
						administration the entire machinery of State was put in motion, and many serious
						problems were met and disposed of. In 1818, President Monroe appointed Governor Jennings
						a commissioner to a treaty with the Indians, at St. Mary's, Ohio, and he requested
						Christopher Harrison, Lieutenant-Governor of Indiana, to come to Corydon, to perform the
						duties of Governor during his absence. Mr. Harrison went to Corydon and took possession
						of the Governor's office, and over this a strange contest arose. The Constitution of
						Indiana prohibits the Governor from holding any office under the United States
						government, and Lieutenant-Governor Harrison maintained that by accepting the
						appointment of commissioner, Governor Jennings had forfeited his office of Governor, and
						when Mr. Jennings returned he refused to vacate the office, claiming that he, not Mr.
						Jennings, was Governor of Indiana. Mr. Jennings did not agree with him, however, and
						demanded his office; whereupon Mr. Harrison took the seal of the State and opened
						another office. It was a peculiar situation, and the officers of the State were puzzled
						to know which of the two men claiming  to be Governor, was
						entitled to their recognition. When the Legislature met in December, 1818, committees
						from both branches of that body were appointed to wait upon Lieutenant-Governor Harrison
						to inform him that the General Assembly was in session and ready to receive any
						communication he was pleased to make. By this act, the authority of the
						Lieutenant-Governor was recognized; but a committee was afterward appointed to
						investigate the trouble between the Governor and Lieutenant-Governor, which
						investigation finally ended in the recognition of Governor Jennings. Upon this
						Lieutenant-Governor Harrison resigned his office, and in 1819, was a candidate for
						Governor against Mr. Jennings. The election resulted in the re-election of Governor
						Jennings. The following year he was appointed a commissioner to select a permanent
						location for a State Capital. In 1822, Governor Jennings was electd a Representative to
						the United States Congress, and resigned his office of Governor to accept this position
						and the unexpired term of three months was filled by Ratliff Boone, Lieutenant-Governor.
						For eight consecutive years, Mr. Jennings represented his district in Congress. In 1830
						he was again a candidate for re-election, but was defeated by General John Carr.
						Governor Jennings left Washington and retired to his home near Charleston, Indiana,
						afterward serving under President Jackson as a commissioner to treat with the Indians
						for lands in northern Indiana and southern Michigan; in this capacity he exercised great
						influence with the northern tribes. On July 26th, 1834, Governor Jennings died at his
						home, and was buried at Charleston. He was a man of culture and refinement; was of
						medium height, heavy-set, with fair complexion, blue eyes and light  hair. His manner was gentle and kind and he was greatly loved and respected
						by those who knew him.
					Ratliff Boone was second Governor of Indiana, by resignation of Governor Jennings.
						Writers disagree as to his birthplace, some claiming that North Carolina is the State of
						his birth, others that he was born in Georgia; but all agree that he first saw the light
						in 1781. A gunsmith by trade, he came to Indiana in 1809, and was the first treasurer of
						Warrick County. In 1816 he was elected a member of the first General Assembly of Indiana
						and in 1818 was elected State Senator. In 1819, he was elected Lieutenant-Governor, and
						when Governor Jennings resigned his office to accept the position of Representative to
						the United States Congress he became Acting Governor of Indiana, and filled the
						unexpired term. In 1822 he was elected Governor, but resigned the office to become a
						candidate for Representative to Congress. Hie was elected to this position and served
						continuously until 1839. After leaving Congress he removed to Missouri, and became
						identified with the public affairs of that State. He died in Missouri, November 20th,
						1844. He was forty years old when he became Acting Governor of Indiana, and died at the
						age of sixty-three years. He was of medium height, straight and spare in person, with a
						low receding forehead. He was a courageous, self-reliant man, and in character suited to
						the life of the pioneer.
					William Hendricks, Indiana's third Governor, was a native of Pennsylvania, and was born
						at Ligonier, in 1783. He came to Madison, Indiana, in 1814, and entered into the
						practice of law; that same year he was elected a member of the Territorial Legislature
						(for Indiana was still a  territory), and was chosen
						Speaker of the House of Representatives. When the Constitutional Convention was held in
						1816, Mr. Hendricks was made Secretary, and when Indiana became a State, he was elected
						a Representative to the United States Congress, and was twice re-elected to this
						honorable position. In 1822, when 39 years of age, he was unanimously elected Governor
						of the State of Indiana. Before his term of office expired, however, the Legislature
						elected him a United States Senator. He resigned his office of Governor to accept the
						honor bestowed upon him by the General Assembly of his State. Twice he was re-elected,
						and in 1839, retired to private life, having served the State more than twenty years. In
						addition to this public service, Mr. Hendricks edited the second newspaper in the State.
						It was called "The Eagle," and was published at Madison. William Wesley Woollen, in his
						Biographical and Historical Sketches of Early Indiana, says: "William Hendricks had as
						much to do with laying the foundation of this great State and commencing its
						superstructure as any other man, excepting Jonathan Jennings, only, and yet how few
						there are who know he ever lived." This author further says: "Men who found empires
						should not be forgotten. They plant the tree of civil liberty, and water its roots,
						while those who come after them but trim its branches and preserve its symmetry. If they
						plant carelessly and in poor soil the tree will have but sickly growth. That the men who
						planted Indiana in the wilderness planted wisely and well, is evidenced by its wonderful
						growth." For many years Governor Hendricks was the most popular man in Indiana. He was
						tall, and well formed, with blue eyes, auburn hair and fair complexion. His manner was
						well  bred and dignified. He died at Madison, in May,
						1850, at the age of 50 years, and was buried in his family vault at Madison.
					James Brown Ray, fourth Governor of Indiana, was born in Jefferson County, Kentucky,
						February 19th, 1794, and in 1818 removed to Brookville, Indiana, and began the practice
						of law. Here he soon became influential among the leading men of the community. In 1822
						he was elected to the State Senate, serving as President of the Senate until the
						resignation of Governor Hendricks in 1825, when he became Acting Governor of Indiana. At
						the expiration of his term of office he was elected Governor, at the age of 31 years.
						The years during which he served as Governor were somewhat uneventful in the history of
						the State. The people were busy in developing their farms and settling the country. The
						machinery of State had been put in motion, and it was a period of quiet growth and
						steady advancement. Governor Ray, together with General Carr and General Tipton, was
						appointed a commissioner to secure a treaty with the Pottawattomie Indians, and
						succeeded in securing from them a large amount of land in the northern part of the
						State. Through the influence of Governor Ray, the Pottawattomies donated a large tract
						of land for the purpose of building the Michigan road. The acceptance of this
						appointment under the United States government caused Governor Ray similar trouble to
						that which came so near losing Governor Jennings his official position, but was averted
						in much the same manner. It was during this period that the murder of the Indians by
						white men, near Pendleton took place. It was a dream of Governor Ray, in later years, to
						concentrate the railroads of the country at  Indianapolis,
						and make a grand railroad center of the Capitl City. There was so little about the city
						in the woods to encourage such a scheme, that men looked upon it as a "crazy whim," and
						the Governor was considered a little wrong in his mind; but the "whim" of Governor Ray
						has been more than realized, and Indianapolis has become the greatest inland railroad
						center in the country. Governor Ray was a candidate for Congress in 1837, but was
						defeated. At one time he was a very popular and influential man in Indiana. He was a man
						of marked eccentricities which seemed to increase with his years. In 1845, Governor Ray
						was stricken with cholera and died at the age of 51 years. His resting place is Spring
						Grove Cemetery, near Cincinnati. He was a remarkably fine looking man, tall and
						straight, with a handsome, intellectual face; he wore his hair long and tied in a
						"queue," after the fashion of the early days.
					Noah Noble, like both Indiana's Territorial Governors, was a Virginian, and was born
						January 15th, 1794. His childhood was spent in Kentucky, his parents having emigrated to
						that State when he was a small chlid. Like Governor Ray, he removed to Brookville,
						Indiana, which was at one time the most important town in the State. Here he was twice
						elected sheriff of Franklin County, and in 1824 was chosen a Representative to the State
						Legislature, after which he was appointed receiver of the public moneys for the land
						office in Indianapolis, and served for three years. In 1830 he was appointed a
						commissioner to assist in locating and laying out the Michigan road. In 1831, at the age
						of thirty-seven years, he was elected Governor of Indiana and was re-elected to the same
						honorable position in 1834.  During his term of office the
						internal improvement system was in operation; he was one of its strongest advocates, and
						after his second term of office expired, he was appointed one of the Board of
						Commissioners for Internal Improvements. Although Governor Noble was a very popular man
						in Indiana, his promotion of this great system of internal improvements, in a measure
						destroyed his influence, for when the scheme failed, his popularity declined, and
						although he was ambitious to become a United States Senator for which he was a
						candidate, he never realized his hopes, but was defeated by Oliver H. Smith in 1836. In
						1839, he was again a candidate, but was again defeated--this time by Albert S. White.
						Governor Noble died at his home near Indianapolis, February 8th, 1844, at the age of
						fifty years, and was buried in Greenlawn Cemetery; afterward, his remains and those of
						his wife were removed to Crown Hill Cemetery. The news of his death was received with
						general expressions of regret; a public meeting was held and resolutions on his death
						were prepared and published. Funeral services were held in the M. E. Church and were
						conducted by Rev. L. W. Berry, assisted by Rev. Dr. Gurley and Rev. Henry Ward Beecher.
						Governor Noble possessed many pleasing qualities and had a large circle of warm personal
						friends. He was tall and slender of form, and of delicate constitution. His countenance
						was mild, his nature sympathetic, his disposition cheerful. He was a popular Governor,
						and a great favorite in society. Governor Noble's father was a slave owner, and some of
						the slaves had been sold out of the family when he was a boy. After he came to
						Indianapolis, he bought back these old servants, brought them to Indiana and took care
						of them as long as he lived, and provided for them in his will.
					
					David Wallace was the sixth Governor of Indiana. He was born in Miffin County,
						Pennsylvania, April 24th, 1799. When but a small boy, his father removed to Ohio, where
						he lived until he reached young manhood. In 1821, he graduated from West Point, and
						entered the army at Lieutenant of Artillery, but soon resigned his commission and joined
						his father at Brookville, Indiana; here he studied law and began the practice of his
						profession. In 1831, he was elected Lieutenant-Governor of Indiana, and was re-elected
						in 1834. In 1837, at the age of thirty-eight, he was elected Governor of Indiana.
						Governor Wallace was a strong advocate of the internal improvement system and it was
						during his term of office that the system failed. After serving the State as Governor
						for three years, he went back to the practice of law. In 1841, he was elected a member
						of the United States House of Representatives. He was again a candidate for Congress in
						1843, but this time was defeated, and again returned to the practice of his profession.
						In 1850 he was chosen a delegate to the second Indiana Constitutional Convention. In
						1856 Governor Wallace was elected judge of the court, which office he continued to fill
						until his death, which occurred September 4th, 1859, when at the age of sixty years.
						Governor Wallace was a cultured, well-bred gentleman; he was a lover of books, an
						excellent reader, and so good a speaker that he won the reputation of an orator. In his
						younger days, he was remarkable for the symmetry and beauty of his person. His hair and
						eyes were dark, his countenance expressive, his manner courteous and kind. Governor
						Wallace was the first Indiana Governor to issue a proclamation appointing Thanksgiving
						Day, a custom now so universal.
					
					Samuel Bigger was born in Warren County, Ohio, March 20th, 1802, and became the seventh
						Governor of Indiana, in 1840, at the age of thirty-eight years. His father was a pioneer
						of Ohio, and for years was a member of the General Assembly of that State. The life of
						the pioneer was not suited to Samuel, who was of delicate constitution, and fond of
						books and of study. Unfit for the hard work on the farm, he entered college and
						graduated with honors, after which he studied law and began its practice in Liberty,
						Indiana, in 1829, but soon removed to Rushville. In 1834 he was elected a member of the
						Indiana House of Representatives, and the following year was re-elected, after which he
						became a judge of the court. In 1840, he was elected Governor of Indiana. Three years
						later he was a candidate for re-election, but was defeated by James Whitcomb. Governor
						Bigger entered upon the duties of his office when Indiana was almost in a state of
						bankruptcy, caused by the failure of the system of internal improvements. Soon after his
						term of office expired, he removed to Fort Wayne, and resumed the practice of his
						profession. He died in 1845, when forty-three years old, and was buried at Fort Wayne.
						Governor Bigger was over six feet tall, and well proportioned; his eyes were blue, his
						hair and complexion dark, his countenance expressive, kind and gentle. He was fond of
						music, had a fine voice, and was a skillful performer on the violin. He was a
						conscientious officer and an honorable man. Of him, one who knew him all his life has
						said: "He was a great man in goodness, great in heart and great in soul."
					James Whitcomb.--Vermont was the birthplace of Indiana's eighth Governor, James
						Whitcomb, and he first  opened his eyes December 1st,
						1795. When he was a little child, his father emigrated to Ohio and settled near
						Cincinnati. Like his predecessor, Governor Bigger, James Whitcomb cared more for his
						books than he did for the work of the farm; and like the fathers of many other boys
						before and since that day, Mr. Whitcomb feared his son would amount to but little among
						the busy pioneer people. However, by hard study, and by teaching school during his
						vacation to earn money, he was able to procure a college education, after which he began
						the study of law, and began to practice his profession in Kentucky. In 1824, he removed
						to Bloomington, Indiana, and continued his practice; soon, Governor Ray appointed him
						Prosecuting Attorney of his court circuit. In 1830 he was elected State Senator, and
						three years later he was re-elected. In 1836, he was appointed commissioner of the
						General Land Office, at Washington, a position he continued to fill until 1841, when he
						returned to Indiana and opened a law office in Terre Haute. In 1843, at the age of
						forty-eight years he was elected Governor of Indiana, and served two terms as Chief
						Executive of the State. During the six years he served as Governor of Indiana, Governor
						Whitcomb did much to restore the State's credit, which had been greatly impaired by the
						failure of the internal improvement system. It was largely through his efforts that a
						sentiment was created among the people in favor of establishing benevolent and
						reformatory institutions, and he urged the importance of establishing a public school
						system, and a school fund. While he was Governor the war against Mexico was declared,
						and military organizations were formed under his directions to assist the government in
						this war. Governor  Whitcomb was elected a United States
						Senator in 1849, but was not permitted to serve out his term of office. He died in New
						York, October 4th, 1852, at the age of fifty-seven years. His remains were brought to
						Indianapolis, and were buried in Greenlawn Cemetery, and a monument to his memory was
						erected by the State. In form, Governor Whitcomb was tall, and compactly built. His
						complexion and eyes were dark, his countenance expressive, his manner kind; his dark
						hair fell in ringlets to his shoulders and he was always well dressed. He was courteous,
						talented and honest, and numbers one among Indiana's great men.
					Paris C. Dunning was born near Greensboro, North Carolina, March 15th, 1806. He
						received his education at an academy in Greensboro. In 1823 he removed with his family
						to Bloomington, Indiana, where he studied law with Governor Whitcomb. After being
						admitted to the bar he began the practice of his profession at Bloomington. In 1833 he
						was elected a Representative to the State Legislature and was three times re-elected. In
						1836 he was elected State Senator and continued to fill that office until 1840. In 1844
						he was chosen Presidential Elector, and in 1846 was elected Lieutenant-Governor and when
						Governor Whitcomb resigned to accept the office of United States Senator, he became
						Acting Governor of Indiana. In 1850 he retired to the practice of his profession. In
						1861 he was again elected to the State Senate and in 1863 was chosen President of that
						body.
					Joseph A. Wright.--Pennsylvania is the native State of Indiana's tenth Governor, Joseph
						A. Wright, and April 17th, 1810, was his birthday. His parents emigrated to Indiana when
						he was a boy, and settled at Bloomington.  They were poor
						people and unable to give their son an education such as he desired, but Joseph having
						the "will" found the "way," and is an example of what a boy may do if he has
						determination, perseverance and industry. By performing the work of janitor at the State
						University--by making the fires, ringing the bell, and performing other work about the
						building--by working in a brick-yard and selling nuts he had gathered in the woods
						during vacation, the future Governor of Indiana earned money enough to buy his books and
						clothing and to pay his way in college for two years. When but twenty years of age he
						passed his examinations and received license to practice law, after which he removed to
						Rockville and opened an office. At the age of twenty-three he was elected a member of
						the State Legislature. In 1840 he became a member of the State Senate, and three years
						later was elected a Representative to the United States House of Representatives. In
						1845 he was a candidate for re-election, but was defeated by Edward W. McGaughey. In
						1849, at the age of thirty-nine, he was elected Governor of Indiana and was re-elected
						in 1852. In 1857, Governor Wright was appointed United States Minister to Prussia, where
						he remained two years. In 1862, Governor Morton appointed him to fill a vacancy in the
						United States Senate. In 1863, President Lincoln appointed him a commissioner to the
						Hamburg Exposition. In 1865, he was again appointed Minister to Prussia. He died at
						Berlin, March 11th, 1867, and his remains were brought to New York and were buried
						there. While Joseph A. Wright was Governor of Indiana the second Constitutional
						Convention was held, and during his term of office many important events in the history
						of the State took  place. During this period, the State
						Agricultural Society was formed, and although not a farmer, Governor Wright was deeply
						interested in farming and when the State Board of Agriculture was formed, he was made
						its president, and served in this capacity for three years. Governor Wright was a tall,
						spare man, with a large head and high forehead; his eyes were blue, his complexion and
						hair were light, and his features large and prominent. He was one of the most
						influential men in the State, and was honorable, both in public and private life.
					Ashbel P. Willard became the eleventh Governor of Indiana when but thirty-six years
						old. He was born in Oneida County, New York, October 31st, 1820. After leaving college
						he began the study of law, and emigrated to Michigan in 1842; he remained there a short
						time, then made a trip to Texas, traveling the distance on horse-back. On his return he
						stopped in Kentucky, where he taught school, and soon after entered politics. He opened
						a law office in New Albany and so won the confidence of the people that in 1850, he was
						elected a member of the House of Representatives, where he soon became a leader. In
						1852, he was elected Lieutenant-Governor, and in 1856 he was elected Governor of
						Indiana, defeating Oliver P. Morton. Governor Willard was a strong partisan, and not
						only won friends but also made many political enemies by his policy while in office.
						While serving as Governor his health became impaired and leaving his official duties in
						the hands of the Lieutenant-Governor, he went to Minnesota hoping to regain his
						strength, but his life was near its close, and he died on October 4th, 1860, at the age
						of forty years. He was the first Indiana Governor to die in office. His remains  were brought to Indianapolis, where they lay in state for
						three days and were viewed by thousands of people. Governor Willard had a pleasing
						personality. His eyes were blue, his hair auburn, his complexion fair. His voice was
						fine, and as an orator he was eloquent and persuasive. His nature was kind and generous,
						and his ability was recognized by both his friends and his enemies.
					Abram Hammond.--On the death of Governor Willard, Abram Hammond became the twelfth
						Governor of Indiana. He was forty-six years old, and was born in Vermont, March 21st,
						1814. He was the first Lieutenant-Governor to become Governor on account of death. When
						but six years old, Abram Hammond removed with his parents to Brookville, Indiana. Like
						many of his predecessors, he chose law as his profession, and began its practice at
						Greenfield in 1835. He remained there five years and then removed to Columbus, where he
						became prosecuting attorney of his circuit. In 1846, he removed to Indianapolis, but
						only remained one year; he then removed to Cincinnati, but returned to Indianapolis in
						1849, and was made judge of the court. Three years later he went to California and
						opened a law office, but in 1855 again returned to Indiana and settled at Terre Haute.
						The following year he was elected Lieutenant-Governor. After the death of Governor
						Willard he served the remaining three months of his term as Governor. Governor Hammond
						was a very able man. In person he was of fine appearance. He was of medium height and
						symmetrically formed. His eyes, hair and complexion were dark, his expression kind and
						gentle, his manner frank, dignified  and self-possessed.
						For several years Governor Hammond was a sufferer from rheumatism and was compelled to
						walk by the aid of crutches. Other diseases attacked him and he went to Denver,
						Colorado, to try to regain his lost health. He died in Denver, August 27th, 1874. His
						remains were brought to Indianapolis, where, they were received with honor, and were
						buried at Crown Hill Cemetery.
					Henry S. Lane.--Kentucky gave to Indiana her thirteenth Governor, Henry S. Lane; he
						served her but briefly, however, as Chief Executive, and resigned his office two days
						after his inauguration, to accept the office of United States Senator, to which the
						General Assembly of Indiana elected him. Henry S. Lane was born in Montgomery, Kentucky,
						February 11th, 1811. After completing his education, he studied law, and began its
						practice at Crawfordsville, Indiana, in 1835. He soon became very popular with the
						people of Montgomery County, and in 1837, he was elected a Representative to the State
						Legislature. In 1840, he was elected to fill a vacancy in Congress, and the following
						year was re-elected. When war was declared against Mexico, Mr. Lane was active in the
						support of the United States government, and not only made speeches in favor of annexing
						Texas, but raised a company of volunteers, was chosen Major of a regiment, and afterward
						became Lieutenant-Colonel, and served until his regiment was mustered out of service. He
						then returned to Indiana and in 1849 was a candidate for Congress, but was defeated by
						Joseph E. McDonald. In 1860, Colonel Lane was elected Governor of Indiana, and Oliver P.
						Morton was elected Lieutenant-Governor. On January 14th, 1861, they were inaugurated,
							 and two days later Governor Lane resigned to accept the
						position of United States Senator. After his term of office in the Senate had expired,
						he returned to his home in Crawfordsville, and did not again enter public life. On June
						19th, 1881, after a brief illness, he died and was buried at Oak Hill Cemetery, near
						Crawfordsville. The news of his death was received with sorrow and regret by the people
						all over the State. By order of Governor Porter, all the State offices were draped in
						mourning for thirty days, and the officers of State attended the funeral in a body. Many
						noted persons as well as a large concourse of neighbors and friends were present.
						Governor Lane was tall and slender of form, somewhat stooped about the shoulders. The
						expression of his thin face was kind and gentle. He wore a long beard, which during the
						last years of his life was snow-white. He was a talented and cultured gentleman, greatly
						loved in life and mourned in death. He was forty-nine years old when he became Governor
						of Indiana, and sixty when he died.
					Oliver P. Morton.--So much has been said of Oliver P. Morton in the war chapter of this
						book, that this sketch of his life will necessarily be brief. Everywhere he was known as
						Indiana's great War Governor, and he deserved the title, as well as the praise which a
						grateful people have lavished upon him. He was the first Indiana Governor born on
						"Hoosier" soil, and in character, was as rugged as were his early surroundings. His
						birthplace was Saulsbury, Wayne County, and he was born August 4th, 1823. When a boy, he
						attended school at Centerville, Indiana, but the family were poor and he was obliged to
						quit school at the age of fifteen years, after which he learned the hatter's  trade. In 1843, he entered Miami University, where he
						remained for two years. He then began the study of law, and afterward the practice, in
						Centerville. In 1852 he was elected judge of his circuit, and later he attended law
						school in Cincinnati. In 1853 he returned to his practice at Centerville. In 1856 he was
						a candidate for Governor, but was defeated by Ashbel P. Willard. In 1860, he was elected
						Lieutenant-Governor; two days after his inauguration, on resignation of Governor Lane,
						he became Governor of Indiana. He was then thirty-seven years old. Three months later
						the country was involved in the war for the Union, but as Governor Morton's part in
						guiding the "ship of State" through this great conflict has been related elsewhere, it
						will be omitted here. In 1864, he was re-elected Governor, defeating Hon. Joseph E.
						McDonald. The following year his health became greatly impaired and he left the affairs
						of State in the hands of Lieutenant-Governor Baker, and went abroad. Returning after a
						few months, he again resumed his duties. In 1867, he was elected United States Senator,
						and was re-elected in 1873. Governor Morton was for several years a victim of partial
						paralysis, and while in the West, on official business for the government, he was again
						stricken with this dread disease, from which he never recovered. He died at his home in
						Indianapolis, November 1st, 1877, surrounded by his family and friends. The death of
						Governor Morton caused widespread grief, not only in his own State but all over the
						country. Indianapolis was a city of mourning. For nearly two days his remains lay in
						state in the Court House, and every mark of respect was shown to the memory of the dead
						statesman. The United States Senate adopted resolutions 
						on his death, and many noted men were in attendance at his funeral, which took place at
						Roberts Park Church, and his remains were interred at Crown Hill Cemetery. Governor
						Morton was fifty-four years old at the time of his death.
					Conrad Baker was born in Franklin County, Pennsylvania, February 12th, 1817, and was
						educated at a college in Gettysburg. After completing his college course he studied law,
						was admitted to the bar and entered upon the practice of his profession at Gettysburg in
						1839. Two years later he emigrated west and settled at Evansville, Indiana, where he
						resided until 1847. In 1845 he was elected to the General Assembly of the State of
						Indiana and served one term. In 1852 he was elected judge of the circuit court of
						Warrick County. In 1856 he was nominated Lieutenant-Governor of Indiana, without his
						knowledge and without being a candidate, but was defeated at the election. In 1861 he
						was commissioned Colonel of the First Indiana Cavalry. In 1864 he was elected
						Lieutenant-Governor of Indiana, and on the resignation of Governor Morton became Acting
						Governor. In 1868 he was elected Governor of the State. At close of his term of office
						he returned to the practice of his profession. In character Governor Baker was upright
						and conscientious. He was of fair complexion, blue eyes and light hair. He died in
						Indianapolis, April 28, 1885, and was buried at Evansville, Indiana.
					Thomas A. Hendricks, Indiana's sixteenth Governor, was born on a farm near Zanesville,
						Ohio, September 7th, 1819. In 1822 his parents removed to Shelby County, Indiana, where
						he attended the common schools. At the proper age he entered Hanover College from which
						he graduated and entered upon the study of law. He was admitted to the bar  and entered upon the practice of his profession at
						Shelbyville, Indiana. In 1848 he was elected to the State Legislature and was a member
						of the Constitutional Convention of 1850-51. In 1851 he was elected to the National
						House of Representatives, and was re-elected two years later. In 1854 he was again a
						candidate for Representative but was defeated. In 1855 he was appointed a Commissioner
						of the General Land Office, under President Pierce. In 1860 he was nominated for
						Governor of Indiana but was defeated by Henry S. Lane. Two years later he was elected to
						the United States Senate in which he served six years. In 1872 he was elected Governor
						of Indiana. In 1876 he was nomninated Vice-President of the United States but was
						defeated with Governor Tilden. In 1884 he was elected Vice-President but did not live to
						serve out his term of office. He died in Indianapolis, in November, 1886, and was buried
						at Crown Hill Cemetery. Governor Hendricks was a man of fine personal appearance and
						commanding presence. His manner was unassuming yet fascinating; his private life
						irreproachable. His mind was broad and analytic. He was shrewd in politics and was a
						brilliant debater. It has been said of him that he was an "ideal citizen and
						friend."
					James D. Williams was born at Pickaway, Ohio, January 6th, 1808. Ten years later his
						family removed to Indiana and settled near Vincennes. The State was still in its
						infancy, and the little education which the future Governor received, he procured at the
						log school-houses of the pioneer days. What he lacked in education he made up in reading
						and study outside of school. His youth and young manhood were spent among the hardy
						pioneers, and being strong and athletic, he did his share in the clearings, in the
						harvest-fields  and at the log-rollings of those days.
						When he was twenty years old, his father died, and the responsibility of caring for the
						family fell upon him. In 1843 he was elected a Representative to the State Legislature,
						and for more than thirty years he was almost continuously in the Senate, or House of
						Representatives. In 1872 he was a candidate for United States Senator, but was defeated
						by Governor Morton. In 1874, he was elected a member of the United States House of
						Representatives from the Vincennes district. While at Washington he received the
						unexpected news that he had been nominated Governor of Indiana. His political opponents
						ridiculed the plain old farmer, and as a mark of disrespect, nick-named him "Blue
						Jeans." His friends took up the name and used it to his advantage, and "Blue Jeans" came
						to be a political war-cry. The opposing candidate was Benjamin Harrison, afterward
						President of the United States, and when the votes were counted Blue Jeans was elected.
						Governor Williams was an earnest and conscientious officer, and discharged his duties
						faithfully and well. He was the first farmer ever elected Governor of Indiana, and the
						second Governor to die in office. The news of his death, which occurred at Indianapolis,
						November 20th, 1880, after a very brief illness, spread rapidly over the State and
						marked respect was shown him by the people of Indiana. His remains lay in state for two
						days, and were viewed by thousands of people after which, accompanied by hundreds of
						prominent citizens, they were taken by special train to Vincennes, where they again lay
						in state, and were buried near his home at Wheatland. "In person, Governor Williams was
						tall and spare of figure, with sharp prominent features, gray eyes and dark  hair and whiskers. In character he was honorable and
						upright, not easily drawn from the path of duty by either friend or foe; of him it has
						been said: "Measured by the best standard, Governor Williams was a worthy citizen, a
						faithful public servant, a good man." He became Governor of Indiana at the age of
						sixty-nine and died at seventy-two.
					Isaac P. Gray was born in Chester County, Pennsylvania, October 18th, 1828. He received
						a common school education and engaged in mercantile business at New Madison, Ohio. In
						1855 he removed to Union City, Indiana, where he continued the mercantile business, and
						later, entered the practice of law. When the war for the Union began he commanded the
						106th Indiana regiment. In 1866 he was a candidate for Congress but was not elected. In
						1868 he was elected to the State Senate where he served four years. In 1870 he was
						appointed United States Minister to the Island of St. Thomas, West Indies, but did not
						accept the position. In 1876 he was elected Lieutenant-Governor and on the death of
						Governor Williams became Acting Governor. In 1884 he was elected Governor of Indiana. In
						1893 he was appointed Minister to Mexico, by President Cleveland. In January, 1895, he
						was at Indianapolis on leave of absence, where he attended the farewell reception given
						by Governor Matthews; he immediately returned to Mexico but was stricken with paralysis
						on the journey and died soon after his arrival at the City of Mexico. His remains were
						returned to Indianapolis and placed in the State Capitol, on February 22d. The
						Legislature adjourned and the State officers attended the funeral which was held at
						Union City, and every respect was shown his memory.
					
					Albert G. Porter was the second Indiana Governor born on the soil. His father was a
						Pennsylvanian, and a soldier in the war of 1812. At the end of the war he settled at
						Lawrenceburg, Indiana, and here the future Governor was born. The family afterward
						removed to Kentucky where Albert and his brother were given the management of a
						ferry-boat across the Ohio River, nearly opposite Lawrenceburg, and on the regular route
						of travel between Indiana and Kentucky. Out of the allowance he received for running
						this ferry, he saved enough money to enter college, and left to the care of others the
						ferry and little skiff in which he had rowed many notable people across the river, and
						entered Hanover College, and afterward Asbury (now DePauw) University, from which he
						graduated in 1843. Returning to Lawrenceburg he began the study and practice of law. In
						1853 he received from Governor Wright the appointment of Reporter of the Decisions of
						the Supreme Court of Indiana, to fill a vacancy, and the following year he was elected
						to the same position. In 1858 he was elected a Representative to Congress and was
						re-elected two years later. At the close of his term of office he returned home and
						resumed the practice of his profession. Afterward he received the appointment of
						Comptroller of the United States Treasury. In 1880, he was elected Governor of Indiana
						to succeed Governor Gray. In character Governor Porter was manly and generous of heart.
						His features were pleasing, his manner courteous, his disposition cheerful and
						frank.
					Alvin P. Hovey was born in Posey County, Indiana, September 6th, 1821. His early life
						was one of hardship and deprivation, He was unable to attend and but the common  schools of the county, but this rudimentary education he
						supplemented by hard study after leaving school. He was admitted to the bar in 1843, and
						began its practice at Mt. Vernon, Indiana. In 1850 he was elected a member of the
						Constitutional Convention after which he was chosen judge of his district, and in 1854
						he was made Judge of the Supreme Court. In 1855 he was appointed United States District
						Attorney, by President Pierce. When the war of the Rebellion began he entered the army
						as Colonel of the 24th Indiana regiment, and was afterward promoted to
						Brigadier-General. After the close of the war he was appointed United States Minister to
						Peru, which office he held for five years, when he resigned and returning to Indiana
						resumed the practice of law. In 1886 he was elected a Representative to Congress, and in
						1888 was elected Governor of Indiana. Governor Hovey was taken ill at the Denison Hotel
						in Indianapolis, and died November 23d, 1891, and was buried at Mt. Vernon. In
						appearance Governor Hovey was dignified and imposing. In character he was determined and
						self-reliant. He was a fine Latin scholar and a writer of both prose and poetry.
					Ira J. Chase was born in Rockport, N. Y., December 7th, 1834, where his father was a
						farmer. He attended the public schools and graduated from a seminary in Medina, in that
						vicinity. When he was twenty years of age he removed with his parents to Chicago, which
						was then only a good-sized village; here he worked on a farm for a while, afterward
						becoming a trader. When the war for the Union began he joined the 19th Illinois
						Volunteers and served until discharged on account of disability in 1863. He was married
						to Rhoda I. Castle just before he entered the army  and
						after receiving his discharge he returned to the farm, but his health was delicate and
						he was obliged to abandon it. He then entered the ministry in the Christian Church,
						serving as pastor at Mishawaka, LaPorte, Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, Peoria, Illinois,
						Wabash and Danville, Indiana. In 1886 he was a candidate for Congress but was defeated.
						In 1887 he was elected Department Commander of the Grand Army of the Republic in which
						organization he was very popular. In 1888 he was elected Lieutenant-Governor of Indiana.
						On the death of Governor Hovey he succeeded to the office and served as Acting Governor
						for the remainder of the term. In 1892 he was a candidate for Governor but was defeated
						by Claude Matthews. After retiring from office, Governor Chase again took up his
						ministerial work, which he continued until the close of his life. He died of erysipelas
						in Lubec, Maine, May 11th, 1895, where he was conducting religious meetings. His remains
						were brought to Indianapolis and lay in state at the State House where thousands of
						people went to pay tribute of respect to his memory, after which they were interred at
						Crown Hill Cemetery. Governor Chase was small in stature with blue eyes and fair
						complexion. He had a remarkable gift to hold audiences, wherever and upon whatever topic
						he spoke. He was earnest, generous and sympathetic and was greatly loved by those who
						knew him.
					Claude Matthews was born in Bath County, Kentucky, December 14th, 1845. From the farm
						where he spent his boyhood days he went to Central College at Danville, Kentucky, from
						which he graduated in 1867. A year later he was married to Miss Martha R. Whitcomb, the
						only daughter of Governor Whitcomb, and removed to Vermillion  County, Indiana, where he successfully engaged in farming and stock raising.
						In 1876 he was elected a member of the Indiana Legislature; in 1882 he was a candidate
						for State Senator but was defeated by a party vote. In 1890 he was elected Secretary of
						State, and in 1892 was elected Governor of Indiana. At the close of his official duties
						he returned to his home near Clinton and resumed his former avocation. While addressing
						an Old Settlers' Meeting at Meharry's Grove near Veedersburg, August 25, 1898, Governor
						Matthews was suddenly stricken with paralysis and died three days later. His death was a
						shock to the entire country. His remains were removed to Hazel Bluff Farm, Governor
						Matthews' country home, where, on August 31st, funeral services were conducted after
						which they were taken to the Presbyterian Church at Clinton and lay in state for three
						hours, and were then interred in the Clinton Cemetery. The funeral was attended by the
						Governor and State officials, and thousands of people gathered to pay respect to his
						memory. High tribute to his worth was paid by public men all over the State. Governor
						Matthews was a model of manly strength and vigor. He was almost six feet tall, well
						proportioned, with dark complexion, hair and eyes, and an attractive and winning
						personality. In character he was positive and upright, with strong intellect and gentle
						unaffected manner. As a speaker he was earnest, persuasive and convincing. He was a
						loyal citizen and a faithful friend. While serving the State as chief executive, he
						conducted affairs in such a manner as to gain the respect and approval of all. His
						private life was beautiful and in every way commendable, while his home relations
						approached the ideal.
					
					James A. Mount is the fourth native Indianian to become Governor of the State. He was
						born in Montgomery County, March 23d, 1843. His boyhood days were spent in hard work on
						the farm and in attending the district schools which afforded him all the educational
						advantages he enjoyed. The education thus acquired he supplemented with hard study and
						extensive reading out of school. In 1862, when but nineteen years old, he enlisted in
						the famous 17th Indiana Volunteers which became a part of the far-famed Wilder's Brigade
						as mounted infantry, and was successively promoted to Corporal and Sergeant, and served
						until the end of the war. General Wilder, in a letter dated March 26th, 1896, bore
						testimony to the gallantry of the young soldier. After the close of the war he returned
						home and attended school for a year, then leased a farm and devoted all his energies to
						its cultivation. In the avocation of farming he has been very successful, and is to-day
						the possessor of one of the largest snd best cultivated farms, in his county. His
						ability as a farmer has long been recognized and he is regarded as authority on many
						subjects relating to farming and has frequently been called to speak before farmers'
						assemblies throughout the country. In 1888 he was elected to the State Senate where he
						was at once recognized as one of the able and progressive men of that body. He was
						elected Governor in 1896, and entered upon the duties of the office in January, 1897.
						One of the distinctive features of his administration has been to place the affairs of
						the State upon a business basis and the benevolent and penal institutions upon a
						non-partisan basis. In stature, Governor Mount is rather below the medium height, with a
						symmetrical and well-formed figure, indicative  of
						alertness and endurance. He has a large, well-formed head and an intelligent face. As a
						speaker he is concise in his statements and convincing in his arguments. He is a leader
						in the Presbyterian Church, and his private life is irreproachable. Early in life he was
						married to Miss Kate A. Boyd, of Boone County.

					

					To the world of statesmanship, of science, literature and art, Indiana has contributed
						her share. Practically she has given two Presidents of the United States, for while
						William Henry Harrison was born in Virginia, and elected from Ohio, he was more closely
						identified with early Indiana than with any other locality. Forty-eight years after his
						inauguration and death, his grandson, Benjamin Harrison, was elected from Indiana to
						fill the highest office in the gift of the people.
					Two Vice-Presidents of the United States, Schuyler Colfax and Thomas A. Hendricks, were
						Indianians, and our State furnished three Speakers of the National House of
						Representatives; these were John W. Davis, Schuyler Colfax and Michael C. Kerr.
					Some of the most brilliant orators and men prominent in public affairs are from
						Indiana. The list is too long to give in full, but among them may be mentioned Jesse D.
						Bright, Caleb B. Smith, Robert Dale Owen, Edward A. Hannegan, William S. Holman, Daniel
						W. Voorhees, Richard L. Thompson, John W. Foster, Joseph E. McDonald, and George W.
						Julian. Among the most prominent commanders in the war for the Union were Generals A. E.
						Burnside and Jeff. C. Davis, who were natives of the State. An Indianian,  Admiral George Brown, for three years stood at the head of
						the United States Navy, and was one of its most brilliant and efficient officers. Among
						men of science, Indiana claims David S. Jordan, Dr. J. M. Coulter, David Dale Owen, E.
						T. Cox, Dr. Joseph U. Rose, Stanley Coulter, Amos W. Butler and many others.
					Indiana has contributed to the world of literature, three of the most famous authors of
						the present day. Need I tell you that these three are Lew Wallace, James Whitcomb Riley
						and Maurice Thompson? While this trio has perhaps reached the highest point in literary
						fame, there are many other men and women who have, by their production of both prose and
						poetry, reflected honor upon our State. Among these may be mentioned Robert Dale Owen,
						Sarah T. Bolton, Edward Eggleston, Rose Hardwick Tharp, Joaquin Miller and later,
						William Dudley Foulke, Richard Thompson, W. P. Fishback, Will Cumback, Benjamin
						Harrison, Amos W. Butler and Benjamin S. Parker. Among the Indiana writers of history
						are James B. Dillon, John Clark Ridpath, William Wesley Woollen, William Watson Woollen,
						Jacob P. Dunn, W. H. English, Mrs. Thomas A. Hendricks, and W. H. Smith.
					It is impossible to publish a complete list of Indiana's prominent men and women, but
						it is not amiss to say that they have taken their places among those who stand the
						highest in statesmanship, in art, in science, and social reform.
				
			

			


		
		


			
				
				APPENDICES.


				

				
					APPENDIX A.

					

						COUNTIES

						
							COUNTY.
							ORGANIZED.
							COUNTY SEAT.
							FOR WHOM NAMED.
						

						
							Adams
							Feb. 7, 1835
							Decatur
							John Adams.
						

						
							Allen
							Dec. 17, 1823
							Ft. Wayne
							Col. John Allen.
						

						
							Bartholomew
							Jan. 8, 1811
							Columbus
							General Bartholomew.
						

						
							Benton
							Feb. 18, 1810
							Fowler
							Thomas H. Benton.
						

						
							Blackford
							Feb. 15, 1838
							Hartford City
							Judge Blackford.
						

						
							Boone
							Jan. 29, 1830
							Lebanon
							Ratliffe Boone.
						

						
							Brown
							Feb. 4, 1830
							Nashville
							Gen. Jacob Brown.
						

						
							Carroll
							Jan. 7, 1828
							Delphi
							 
						

						
							Cass
							Dec. 18, 1828
							Logansport
							Lewis Cass.
						

						
							Clark
							 1802
							Jeffersonville
							Gen. George R. Clark.
						

						
							Clay
							Feb. 12, 1825
							Brazil
							 
						

						
							Clinton
							Jan. 29, 1830
							Frankfort
							De Witt Clinton.
						

						
							Crawford
							Jan. 29, 1818
							Leavenworth
							Col. Wm. Crawford.
						

						
							Daviess
							Dec. 24, 1816
							Washington
							Colonel Davis.
						

						
							Dearborn
							 1805
							Lawrenceburg
							Col. Henry Dearborn.
						

						
							Decatur
							Dec. 21, 1821
							Greensburg
							Commodore Decatur.
						

						
							DeKalb
							Feb. 7, 1835
							Auburn
							General DeKalb.
						

						
							Delaware
							Jan. 22, 1820
							Muncie
							An Indian tribe.
						

						
							Dubois
							Dec. 20, 1817
							Jasper
							Toussant Dubois.
						

						
							Elkhart
							Jan. 29, 1830
							Goshen
							 
						

						
							Fayette
							Dec. 28, 1818
							Connersville
							LaFayette.
						

						
							Floyd
							Jan. 2, 1819
							New Albany
							 
						

						
							Fountain
							Dec. 30, 1825
							Covington
							Major Fountain.
						

						
							Franklin
							Nov. 27, 1810
							Brookville
							Benjamin Franklin.
						

						
							Fulton
							Feb. 7, 1835
							Rochester
							Robert Fulton.
						

						
							Gibson
							Mar. 9, 1813
							Princeton
							Gen. John Gibson.
						

						
							Grant
							Feb. 10, 1831
							Marion
							Capt. Samuel Grant.
						

						
							Greene
							Jan. 5, 1821
							Bloomfield
							General Greene.
						

						
							Hamilton
							Jan. 8, 1823
							Noblesville
							Alexander Hamilton.
						

						
							Hancock
							Jan. 26, 1827
							Greenfield
							John Hancock.
						

						
							Harrison
							Oct. 11, 1808
							Corydon
							Gen. W. H. Harrison.
						

						
							Hendricks
							Dec. 20, 1823
							Danville
							Gen. Wm. Hendricks.
						

						
							Henry
							Dec. 31, 1821
							New Castle
							Patrick Henry.
						

						
							* Howard
							Dec. 28, 1946
							Kokomo
							Gen. T. A. Howard.
						

						
							Huntington
							Feb. 2, 1832
							Huntington
							Samuel Huntington.
						

						
							Jackson
							Dec. 18, 1815
							Brownstown
							Andrew Jackson.
						

						
							Jasper
							Feb. 7, 1835
							Rensselear
							Sergeant Jasper.
						

						
							Jay
							Feb. 7, 1835
							Portland
							John Jay.
						

						
							Jefferson
							Nov. 23, 1810
							Madison
							Thomas Jefferson.
						

						
							Jennings
							Dec. 27, 1816
							Vernon
							Jonathan Jennings.
						

						
							Johnson
							Dec. 31, 1822
							Franklin
							 
						

						
							Knox
							Jan. 14, 1790
							Vincennes
							 
						

						
							Kosciusko
							Feb. 7, 1835
							Warsaw
							A Polish soldier.
						

						
							LaGrange
							Feb. 2, 1832
							LaGrange
							Home of LaFayette.
						

						
							Lake
							Jan. 28, 1836
							Crown Point
							Lake Michigan.
						

						
							Laporte
							Jan. 9, 1832
							Laporte
							 
						

						
							Lawrence
							Jan. 7, 1818
							Bedford
							Captain Lawrence.
						
					

					* Howard County and Tipton
						County were organized as Richardville County, out of the great Miama Reservation, Feb,
						16, 1839; afterward Tipton was organized and Howard remained Richardville until
						1846.

					

					

						COUNTIES--CONTINUED.
						

							COUNTY.
							ORGANIZED.
							COUNTY SEAT.
							FOR WHOM NAMED.
						

						
							Madison
							Jan. 4, 1823
							Anderson
							James Madison.
						

						
							Marion
							Dec. 31, 1821
							Indianapolis
							Gen. Francis Marion.
						

						
							Marshall
							Feb. 7, 1835
							Plymouth
							Chief Justice Marshall.
						

						
							Martin
							Jan. 17, 1820
							Shoals
							Major Martin.
						

						
							Miami
							Feb. 2, 1832
							Peru
							An Indian tribe.
						

						
							Monroe
							Jan. 14, 1818
							Bloomington
							James Monroe.
						

						
							Montgomery
							Dec. 21, 1822
							Crawfordsville
							General Montgomery.
						

						
							Morgan
							Dec. 31, 1821
							Martinsville
							General Morgan.
						

						
							Newton
							Feb. 7, 1835
							Kentland
							Sir Isaac Newton.
						

						
							Noble
							Feb. 7, 1835
							Albion
							Noah Noble.
						

						
							Ohio
							Jan. 4, 1844
							Rising Sun
							Ohio River.
						

						
							Orange
							Dec. 26, 1815
							Paoli
							A county in N. Carolina.
						

						
							Owen
							Dec. 21, 1818
							Spencer
							Col. Abram Owen.
						

						
							Parke
							Jan. 9, 1821
							Rockville
							Benjamin Parke.
						

						
							Perry
							Sept. 7, 1814
							Cannelton
							Commodore Perry.
						

						
							Pike
							Dec. 21, 1816
							Petersburg
							Gen. Z. M. Pike.
						

						
							Porter
							Feb. 7, 1835
							Valparaiso
							Commodore Porter.
						

						
							Posey
							Sept. 7, 1814
							Mt. Vernon
							Thomas Posey.
						

						
							Pulaski
							Feb. 7, 1835
							Winamac
							A Polish soldier.
						

						
							Putnam
							Dec. 31, 1821
							Greencastle
							General Putnam.
						

						
							Randolph
							Jan. 10, 1818
							Winchester
							A county in N. Carolina.
						

						
							Ripley
							Dec. 27, 1816
							Versailles
							Gen. E. W. Ripley.
						

						
							Rush
							Dec. 31, 1821
							Rushville
							Dr. Benjamin Rush.
						

						
							Scott
							Jan. 12, 1820
							Lexington
							Gen. Charles Scott.
						

						
							Shelby
							Dec. 31, 1821
							Shelbyville
							Isaac Shelby.
						

						
							Spencer
							Jan. 10, 1818
							Rockport
							Captain Spencer.
						

						
							Starke
							Feb. 7, 1835
							Knox
							 
						

						
							Steuben
							Feb. 7, 1835
							Angola
							Baron Steuben.
						

						
							St. Joseph
							Feb. 29, 1830
							South Bend
							St. Joseph River.
						

						
							Sullivan
							Dec. 30, 1816
							Sullivan
							General Sullivan.
						

						
							Switzerland
							Sept. 7, 1814
							Vevay
							Switzerland.
						

						
							Tippecanoe
							Jan. 20, 1826
							Lafayette
							Tippecanoe River.
						

						
							* Tipton
							Jan. 15, 1844
							Tipton
							Gen. John Tipton.
						

						
							Union
							Jan. 5, 1821
							Liberty
							 
						

						
							Vanderburgh
							Jan. 7, 1818
							Evansville
							Judge Vanderburgh.
						

						
							Vermillion
							Jan. 2, 1824
							Newport
							 
						

						
							Vigo
							Jan. 21, 1818
							Terre Haute
							Francis Vigo.
						

						
							Wabash
							Jan. 22, 1835
							Wabash
							Wabash River.
						

						
							Warren
							Jan. 19, 1827
							Williamsport
							Gen. Jos. Warren.
						

						
							Warrick
							Mar. 9, 1813
							Boonville
							Captain Warrick.
						

						
							Washington
							Dec. 21, 1813
							Salem
							George Washington.
						

						
							Wayne
							Nov. 27, 1810
							Richmond
							Gen. Anthony Wayne.
						

						
							Wells
							Feb. 7, 1835
							Bluffton
							 
						

						
							White
							Feb. 1, 1834
							Monticello
							Colonel White.
						

						
							Whitley
							Feb. 7, 1835
							Columbia City
							Col. W. Whitley.
						
					


					* Howard County and Tipton
						County were organized as Richardville County, out of the great Miama Reservation, Feb,
						16, 1839; afterward Tipton was organized and Howard remained Richardville until
						1846.
				

				

				

					APPENDIX B.

					

					

						GOVERNOR OF THE NORTHWESTERN TERRITORY.

						
							Arthur St. Clair
							1787-1800
					

					

						GOVERNORS OF INDIANA TERRITORY.

						
							William Henry Harrison
							1800-1812
						
							Thomas Posey
							1812-1816
					

					

						GOVERNORS OF INDIANA.

						
							Jonathan Jennings
							1816-1822
						

						
							Ratliffe Boone
							1822- 
						

						
							William Hendricks
							1822-1825
						

						
							James B. Ray
							1825-1831
						

						
							Noah Noble
							1831-1837
						

						
							David Wallace
							1837-1840
						
						
							Samuel Bigger
							1840-1843
						

						
							James Whitcomb
							1843-1848
						

						
							Paris C. Dunning (acting)
							1848-1849
						

						
							Joseph A. Wright
							1849-1857
						

						
							Ashbel P. Willard
							1857-1860
						

						
							Abram A. Hammond
							1860-1861
						

						
							Henry S. Lane
							1861-
						

						
							Oliver P. Morton
							1861-1867
						

						
							Conrad Baker
							1867-1873
						

						
							Thomas A. Hendricks
							1873-1877
						

						
							James D. Williams
							1877-1880
						

						
							Isaac P. Gray (acting)
							1880-1881
						

						
							Albert G. Porter
							1881-1885
						

						
							Isaac P. Gray
							1885-1889
						

						
							Alvin P. Hovey
							1889-1891
						

						
							Ira J. Chase (acting)
							1891-1893
						

						
							Claude Matthews
							1893-1897
						

						
							James A. Mount
							1897-
						
					
				

				

				

					APPENDIX C.

					

					

						UNITED STATES SENATORS.

						
							James Noble
							1816-1831
						

						
							Waller Tayler
							1816-1825
						

						
							William Hendricks
							1825-1837
						

						
							Robert Hanna (appointed)
							1831-
						

						
							John Tipton
							1831-1839
						

						
							Oliver H. Smith
							1837-1843
						

						
							Albert S. White
							1839-1845
						

						
							Edward A. Hannegan
							1843-1849
						

						
							Jesse D. Bright
							1845-1861
						

						
							James Whitcomb
							1849-1852
						

						
							Charles W. Cathcart (appointed)
							1852-1853
						

						
							John Petit
							1853-1857
						

						
							Graham N. Fitch
							1857-1861
						

						
							Joseph A. Wright (appointed)
							1861-1863
						

						
							Henry S. Lane
							1861-1867
						

						
							David Turpie
							1863-
						

						
							Thomas A. Hendricks
							1863-1869
						

						
							Oliver P. Morton
							1867-1877
						

						
							Daniel D. Pratt
							1869-1875
						

						
							Joseph E. McDonald
							1875-1881
						

						
							Daniel W. Voorhees
							1877-1897
						

						
							Benjamin Harrison
							1881-1887
						

						
							David Turpie
							1887-1899
						

						
							Charles W. Fairbanks
							1897-
						

						
							Albert J. Beveridge
							1899-
						
					
				


				

				

					TABULATED STATEMENT
					

						TABULATED STATEMENT

						

						
							Lands granted by the United States to Indiana for internal improvements and
								other purposes:
						

						
							For Common Schools (sixteenth sections)
							631,863.71 acres.
						

						
							For University, College or Seminary
							46,080.00"
						

						
							For Michigan Road
							170,582.20"
						

						
							For Wabash and Erie Canal
							1,439,279.41"
						

						
							For Permanent Seat of Government
							2,560.00"
						

						
							Swamp lands
							1,209,422.99"
						

						
							Saline lands
							24,235.58"
						

						
							Total
							3,524,022.99 acres.
						

					
				
			


			


			

			

				INDEX

				

				

					 Abbott, Lieut.-Gov. 53, 66 

					 Adams, John 94, 95, 96 

					 Advisory Boards 166 

					 Agriculture 337, 354 

					 Alice Dean 386 

					 Alleghany Mountains 22, 34, 36, 93, 239 

					 Alexandria 285 

					 Allen, Capt. D. F. 316 

					 American Troops 128, 129, 130, 247 

					 Americans 74, 79, 80, 82, 83, 84, 86, 93, 119, 121, 126, 128, 129, 130, 132, 133,
						135, 140, 147, 239, 246 

					 Anti-Slavery 266 

					 Arsenal 275 

					 Attorney at Law 322 

					 Attorney-General 162 
				

				

					 Baker, Conrad 359

					 Ballot 324, 325

					 Bank, Farmers of Ind. 264, 265

					 Bank, State 218, 264

					 Bank of Vincennes 264, 265

					 Bank of Issue 266

					 Banking system 254, 256, 266

					 Baptists 202

					 Barkwell, H. G. 253

					 Barnett, Col. J. F. 316

					 Beauregard, Gen. 271

					Bedford 232

					Beecher, Rev. Henry Ward 348

					Benevolent institutions 304, 307

					Benton, Wm. P. 273

					Berry, Rev. L. W. 348

					Biddle, Horace P. 252

					Bigger, Samuel 350

					Black Hawk 238

					Blackford, Judge Isaac 224, 253

					Block Houses 137

					Bloomfield, Lot 143

					Bloomington 220, 232, 351, 352

					Blythe, Benjamin I. 222

					Blue Jeans 361

					Board of Education 163, 164, 299, 300

					Board of Health 163, 164

					Board of Internal Improvements 233, 235, 348

					Board of Public Works 231

					Board of Review 302

					Board of State Charities 163

					Board of Treasury 194

					Board of Trustees 306, 310

					Bolton, Sarah T. 369

					Boone, Ratliff 344

					Bordon, James 252

					Bowles, Col. W. A. 248

					Bowman, Capt. 61, 72, 75

					Boyd, Col. 126

					Boyle, Gen. 282, 288

					Bragg, Gen. 283

					Brandenburg 285

					Bridges, John 143, 144

					Bright, Michael C. 252

					Bright, Jesse B. 368

					British 130, 131, 134, 135, 141, 166

					British Government 49, 55, 133

					British Officers 75, 76

					British Soldiers 74, 75, 79, 88, 93, 97

					Broad Ripple 237, 238

					Brock, Gen. 134

					Brookville 156, 195, 346, 347, 349, 355

					Brown, Admiral George 289, 368

					Buckner, Capt. J. M. 316

					Butler, Amos W. 368, 369

					Buntin, Robt. 99

					Burnett, Jacob 94

					Burnside, Gen. 289

					Burr, Aaron 103, 104
				

				
					Cambridge City 246

					Canada 20, 21, 110, 130, 131, 134, 168

					Canal, Central 231, 238

					Canal, Erie 229, 236

					Canal, Wabash and Erie 231, 235, 236, 259

					Canal, White Water 231, 234

					Canton 293

					Carr, Gen. John 343, 346

					Carr, Geo. W. 253

					Carrington, Gen. 290

					Catholic 220

					Caves 335

					Celeron, Capt. 34, 35, 67

					Centerville 246, 357

					Charleston 271, 347

					Chase, Ira J. 364, 365

					Chicago 135, 364

					Churches 198, 199

					Circle Park 203

					Circuit Rider 225

					Clark, George Rogers 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69,
						71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 168, 213

					Clark's Grant 79, 82, 97

					Clinton 366

					Coal 336

					Cohoka 71

					Colfax, Schuyler 251, 252, 368

					Columbus 231, 355

					Confederate 271, 282

					Confederate Army 285

					Confederate Prisoners 277, 281, 283, 284

					Confederacy 14, 31, 80, 89, 117

					

					Congress 91, 96, 101, 104, 105, 107, 133, 147, 155, 190, 238, 239, 213, 216, 217,
						247, 251, 314, 338, 344, 345, 356

					Congress, Continental 81, 84

					Congress, Delegates to 147, 342

					Congressmen 339

					Conner, John 115, 116

					Conner, William 143, 221

					Connersville 221, 224

					Constitution of Indiana 158 214, 219, 250, 254, 255, 257, 258, 259, 263, 311, 312,
						318

					Constitutional Convention 151, 154, 245, 249, 253, 349, 353, 359

					Constitutional Elm 154

					Coulter, Dr. J. M. 368

					Coulter, Stanley 368

					County Advisory Board 303

					County Assessor 302

					County Auditor 165, 166, 177, 302

					County Board of Commissioners 165, 166, 324, 328, 329, 167, 168, 303

					County Clerk 165, 167, 302

					County Recorder 166, 167

					County Seal 165

					County Sheriff 165, 167, 168

					County Treasurer 165, 167, 303


					Counties-- 
							Allen 253
							Clark 99, 110, 136, 137, 155, 156
							Crawford 335
							Daviess 156
							Dearborn 97, 99, 110, 156
							Delaware 167
							Floyd 292
							Franklin 97, 156, 253, 347
							Gibson 156
							Hamilton 143, 221
							Harrison 110, 137, 145, 156, 285, 292
							Howard 167
							Jackson 156, 293
							Jay 97
							Jefferson 136, 137, 156, 236, 294
							Jennings 156, 293
							Knox 91, 94, 97, 102, 110, 137, 167, 231
							Lawrence 253, 292
							Marion 321
							Miami 140
							Montgomery 356, 367
							Ohio 97
							Orange 156, 191, 292
							Parke 125
							Perry 156, 253
							Pike 156
							Posey 156, 202, 363
							Randolph 97
							Ripley 236
							Rush 308
							Scott 136, 293
							Shelby 236, 359
							St. Clair 102
							Sullivan 156
							Switzerland 156
							Tippecanoe 309
							Vermilion 365
							Warrick 156, 281, 344, 359
							Washington 155, 156, 292, 293
							Wayne 97, 102, 156, 246, 254,357
						
				

				
					Court 103, 161, 317, 318, 319, 320, 321, 322
					Court House 224
					Cox, E. T. 368
					Cravens, Maj. Jas. A. 295
					Crawfordsville 195, 220, 232, 356
					Crown Hill 359, 360
					Cuba 314
					Culver 220
					Cumberland 339
					Cumback, Will 369
					Curtis, Capt. James B. 316
				

				

					Dalton, Thomas 84
					Danville 365
					Davis, Jefferson 270
					Davis, John W. 368
					Dearborn 135
					Detroit 79, 89, 134, 135, 140, 141
					Dillon, John B. 154, 369
					Drake, Col. Jas. P. 247
					Drainage 330
					Dublin 246,254
					Dunn, Jacob P. 74, 369
					Dunn, John P. 252
					Dunn, Wm. McKee 252
					Dunning, Paris C. 252
					Dumont, Gen. Ebenezer 248, 273
					Dumont, John 231, 248
					Dupont 294
					Durbin, Col. W. T. 316
				

				

					Earlham College 220
					Eggleston, Edward 369
					Elections 333
					Electors 325, 352
					Elizabethtown 234
					England 19, 22, 34, 130, 133
					English King 34, 49, 74, 168
					English, Wm. H. 251, 252, 253, 369
					Evans, Robert M. 353
					Executive Department 159
				

				

					Farquhar, Gen. 290
					Fermin, Father 23
					Federal Government 270
					Financial Panic 233
					Findlay, James 94
					Fishback, W. P. 369
					Flag, American 67
					Fletcher, Calvin 143
					Foley, James B. 252
					Fordham, Elias P. 222
					Fort Chartres 32
					Fort DuQuesne 38, 339
					Fort Greenville 88, 89, 97, 115, 149
					Fort Gage 66
					Fort Harrison 124, 125, 130, 136, 149
					Fort Knox 99
					Fort Miami 30, 31, 88
					Fort Patrick Henry 76
					Fort Pitt 339
					Fort Sackville 71, 73
					Fort Sumpter 271
					
					Fort Vincennes 318
					Fort Washington 86, 91
					Fort Wayne 10, 30, 38, 79, 89, 97, 98, 99, 108, 136, 135, 139, 140, 191, 265, 310,
						350
					Foster, John W. 368
					Foulk, William Dudley 369
					France 19, 22, 27, 34, 92, 93, 131, 133
					Franklin 226
					French 21, 22, 32, 100
					French King 19, 168
					Fribarger, Gen. 291
					Friends 202, 220, 252
					Funds, School 216, 217, 218
				

				

					Gage, Gen. 49, 50, 53
					Gamlin, Antonie 85, 86
					General Assembly of Virginia 79, 94, 359
					General Assembly of Indiana 106, 107, 145, 147, 150, 156, 159, 224, 226
					Geologist 162, 163
					Gibalt, Father 65, 66, 67, 69, 70, 77, 85
					Gibson, Gen. John 102, 120, 145, 339, 340, 341
					Gladwin, Maj. 43, 44, 45
					Gorman, Col. Willis A. 248
					Governor, Indiana 154, 160, 161, 164
					Governor, Indiana Territory 91, 94, 95, 96, 102, 108
					Governor, Pennsylvania 35
					Governor, Virginia 76
					Governor's Circle 224, 225, 227
					Governor's Residence 224
					Gray, Isaac P. 362, 363
					Grand Army of the Republic 309, 365
					Great Britian 80, 92, 122, 131, 132, 133, 135, 145
					Great Spirit 17, 114, 115, 116, 122
					Greencastle 220, 232
					Greenlawn Cemetery 351
					Greenfield 246, 355
					Greenville 292
					Griffin, John 102
					Griffith's Station 230
					Gurley, Dr. 348
					Gunder, Geo. W. 316
				

				

					Hall, Samuel 252
					Hamilton, Alexander 103
					Hamilton, Lieut.-Gov. 68, 69, 70, 74, 75, 76
					Hammond, Abram P. 355, 356
					Hamtranck, Col. J. F. 85, 89
					Hannegan, Edward A. 368
					Hanover College 220, 359
					Hardy, Samuel 81
					Harmar, Gen. 79, 86, 89, 91
					Harmony 154, 202, 203
					Harper, Thomas 142
					Harrison, Benjamin 361, 368, 369
					Harrison, Christopher 155, 222, 342
					Harrison, Wm. Henry 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 111, 112, 113, 114, 115, 116, 119, 120,
						121, 122, 123, 124, 126, 127, 128, 130, 131, 135, 138, 139, 140, 145, 149, 170, 214,
						241, 338, 368
					Hascall, Gen. 290
					Hay, Maj. 75
					Helm, Capt. 61, 67, 68, 69, 75, 76
					Hendricks, Thos. A. 251, 252, 253, 359, 368
					Hendricks, Mrs. Thos. A. 369
					Hendricks, William 156, 229, 344, 345
					Henry, Patrick 58, 60, 61, 78, 346
					Herrod, Capt. 61
					Hines, Capt. 84
					Hobson, Gen. 293, 295
					Holman, Wm. S. 252, 368
					Hoosier 228, 332, 357
					Hopkins, Gen. 139
					Hovey, Alvin P. 252, 363, 364, 365
					Howe, John B. 252
					Hubbell 295
					Hudson 143
					Hughes, Gen. 294
					Hull, Gen. Wm. 134
				

				

					Illinois 9, 10, 23, 56, 79, 84, 91, 102, 135, 229, 239, 246, 318
					Indiana 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, 18, 21, 23, 25, 32, 38, 55, 56, 77, 79, 84, 91, 97, 102,
						103, 142, 150, 156, 168, 170, 216, 229, 239, 264, 273, 280, 285, 310, 332, 333
					Indiana Hospitals for Insane 307
					Indiana Industrial School and Prison 304, 305, 306
					Indiana Institution for the Blind 307
					Indiana Institution for the Deaf 307, 308
					Indiana Legion 280, 281, 282
					Indiana National Guards 312, 313, 316
					Indiana, Physical 332
					Indiana Regiments for Spanish War 316
					Indiana Reformatory 304
					Indiana Reform School for Boys 304, 305
					Indiana Reading Circle 299
					Indiana School for Feeble-minded 307, 308, 309
					Indiana Soldiers 273, 274
					Indiana Soldiers' Home 307, 308
					Indiana Soldiers' Orphans' Home 307, 308, 309, 310
					Indiana State Prison 304
					Indiana Territory 105, 106, 107, 110, 112, 126, 130, 135, 145, 146, 168, 318
					Indianapolis 11, 192, 195, 203, 220, 221, 225, 226, 230, 232, 233, 237, 246, 265,
						290, 296, 305, 355, 358
					Internal Improvements 228, 234, 245, 327, 348

					Indians-- 

							Chippewas 90
							Delawares 85, 90, 118, 125, 142
							Kickapoos 85
							Miamis 14, 18, 46, 86, 120, 140, 142, 143, 236
							Ottawas 90
							Ouiatanon 85
							Piankeshaws 76, 85
							Pottawattomies 86, 90, 118, 142, 236, 346
							Senecas 142, 143
							
							Shawnees 9, 86, 125
							Twightwees 14
							Weas 86, 90
							Wyandotte 90, 129
						
				

				

					Irvington 220
				

				

					Jackson, Andrew 24, 268, 343
					Jefferson, Thomas 81, 103, 107, 133, 268
					Jeffersonville 195, 232, 305, 341
					Jenkins, Lieutenant 46
					Jennings, Jonathan 110, 197, 151, 155, 221, 341, 342, 344
					Joaquin Miller 369
					Johnson, A. R. 280
					Johnson, John 43
					Jordan, Colonel 286
					Jordan, David S. 368
					Judiciary 161
				

				

					Kaskaskia 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 71, 77, 79, 87
					Kemper, Bishop 229
					Kentucky 9, 56, 57, 61, 79, 83, 84, 88, 135, 251, 279, 282, 283, 285, 346, 347, 351,
						354, 356, 365
					Kerr, Michael C. 168
					Kilgore, David 252
					King Louis XIV 27
					King Louis XV 23
					Kimball, Gen. Nathan 248
					Knightstown 308
				

				

					LaFayette 30, 67, 79, 97, 129, 220, 229, 232, 236, 237, 309
					Land ceded 97, 351
					Land Office 192, 194, 195, 347, 351
					Lane, Col. Henry S. 347, 356, 357
					Lane, Daniel S. 156
					Lane, Gen. Jas. H. 248
					Lane, Gen. Joseph 247
					LaPorte 365
					LaSalle 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 32, 34, 48
					Lawrenceburg 99, 363
					Laws 109, 157, 317, 329
					Lawton, Maj.-Gen. H. W. 317
					Leavenworth 286
					Legislative Council 94, 95, 105, 107, 108, 146, 147
					Legislative Department 159
					Legislature, State 164, 167, 215, 217, 218, 221, 227, 232, 234, 235, 245, 265, 263,
						276, 311, 318, 329, 352, 353, 356, 361, 362, 366
					Legislature, Territorial 95, 96, 103, 103, 108, 109, 110, 111, 145, 146, 148, 214,
						318, 344
					Legislature, Virginia 59, 78, 79, 81
					Librarian 286
					Lieutenant-Governor 159, 161, 352, 354, 355, 358, 359, 362, 365
					Lincoln, Abraham 269, 272, 277, 296, 353
					Little Turtle 14, 89, 90, 131
					Lockhart, James 252
					Logan, Capt. 84, 296
					Logansport 229, 236, 237
					Louisiana 27, 93
					Louisville 28, 282
					Love, Gen. 282, 294
					Lowe, Capt. Wm. H. 248
					Ludlow 142
				

				

					Mackinaw 46, 134
					Madison 225, 230, 231, 293, 244
					Madison, James 124, 133, 134, 151, 156, 341
					Madison Railway 226, 227, 234
					Manila 317
					Manson, Gen. Mahlon D. 248, 273
					Marietta, Ohio 85
					Martinsville 238
					Matthews, Claude 362, 365, 366
					Mauxport 285, 286
					May, Col. Allen 248
					McCoy, Major 248
					McDonald, Joseph E. 356, 358, 368
					McGinnis, Geo. F. 248, 369
					McKee, Gen. W. J. 316
					McKinley, William 315
					Methodists 202, 220
					Michigan 9, 14, 56, 84, 106, 134, 135, 168, 230, 354
					Michigan City 225, 305
					Michigan Road 225, 233, 236, 346, 347
					Militia 87, 91, 127, 134, 147, 280, 287, 310, 311, 312
					Miller, Smith 252
					Milroy, Gen. Robt. H. 247, 252, 273
					Minnesota 84, 102, 354
					Minute Men 284
					Mishawaka 365
					Missionaries 23, 28
					Mitchell 292
					Mound Builders 12
					Mount, James A. 316
					Mount Pleasant 232
					Mount Vernon 364
					Morgan, Gen. John 280, 284, 285, 286, 287, 288, 289, 291, 292, 293, 294, 295,
						296
					Morton, Oliver P. 273, 275, 276, 282, 283, 288, 289, 290, 315, 353, 354, 356, 357,
						359
					Morton, Camp 273, 276
				

				

					National Road 233, 239, 245, 288
					Natural Gas 336
					New Albany 288
					New Alsace 296
					Newburg 281
					New England 268
					New Mexico 248
					Newport 122
					New Philadelphia 293
					New Purchase 167
					New, Robt. A. 156
					New York 104, 239, 256, 352, 353, 354, 364
					Niles, John B. 252
					Noffsinger 252
					Noble, James 143, 156, 197, 230
					Noble, Noah, Gov. 234, 238, 348
					Noblesville 143, 221, 238
					Normal School, State 164
					
					North Carolina 251, 344, 352
					Northwestern Territory 81, 84, 85, 87, 92, 95, 96, 97, 101, 140, 168, 190, 213,
						317
					Notre Dame 220
				

				

					Officers of State 161
					Ohio 9, 14, 84, 89, 143, 239, 251, 281, 285, 350, 359, 360
					Ohio Company 34
					Ohio Falls 76, 77, 78, 79, 82, 97, 171, 229
					Ohio Valley 46, 93
					Old Settlers' Meeting 366
					Ordinance of 1787 255
					Osgood 295
					Ouiatanon 30, 31, 32, 38, 46, 79, 82
					Owen, David Dale 368
					Owen, Robert 203
					Owen, Robert Dale 250, 252, 256, 368, 369
				

				

					Palmyra 292
					Paoli 191, 232, 292
					Parke, Benjamin 108
					Parker, S. Benjamin 369
					Pendleton 142, 143, 144
					Petroleum 336
					Pigeon Roost Settlement 137, 179
					Pettit, John 252
					Pierceville 295
					Pioneer 181, 186, 198
					Piqua 141, 360
					Polk, James K. 241, 247
					Ponce de Leon 27
					Pontiac 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 45, 46, 48
					Portage 30, 89, 99
					Porter, Albert G. 357, 363
					Posey, Thomas 88, 147, 150, 340, 341
					Postilion 244
					Presbyterian 202
					Presidents, U. S. 94, 95, 96, 103, 107, 121, 122, 124, 148, 168, 326, 368
					Protocol 317
				

				

					Randolph, Thomas 342
					Ranke, Capt. Wm. F. 316
					Rappe, Frederick 202
					Rariden, James 143
					Ray, Gen. James B. 143, 229, 245, 246, 351
					Ray, Martin M. 143
					Reporter of Decisions 162
					Richmond 220, 233, 246, 283, 284, 296
					Ridpath, John Clark 369
					Riley, James Whitcomb 368
					Ristine, Joseph 252

					Rivers-- 

							Eel 231
							Fall Creek 221
							Illinois 11, 14, 25, 239
							Kankakee 11, 23, 25
							Maumee 10, 18, 140, 229
							Miami 102, 118
							Mississinewa 141
							Mississippi 11, 24, 25, 57, 76, 79, 93, 94, 239
							Ohio 9, 10, 11, 12, 25, 32, 34, 37, 55, 57, 60, 171, 191, 231
							St. Joseph 10, 18, 230
							St. Lawrence 22, 24
							St. Mary 10, 18
							Tippecanoe 115, 213
							Wabash 10, 11, 14, 21, 32, 70 99, 118, 229, 230, 231, 232
							White 11, 71, 143, 145, 221, 225, 231, 277
						
				

				

					Roads 326, 327, 328
					Rogers, Lieutenant 71
					Rogers, Major 40, 41
					Rose, Dr. Joseph U. 368
					Rose Polytechnic Institute 220
					Rosseau, Gen. Lovell H. 248
					Rushville 350
				

				

					Saddle-bags 152
					Salem 232, 292
					Sanderson, Gen. W. L. 248
					Santiago 317
					Santa Anna 247
					Sargant, Winthrop 86, 91, 92, 94, 338
					Saulsbury 357
					Sawyer, Andrew 142
					Secretary of State 161, 164, 366
					Seymore 293
					Schenk, Wm. C. 95
					School System 195, 213, 254, 256
					Scott, Gen. 88, 241
					Shawneetown 341
					Shunk, Capt. David 248
					Shelby, Gov. Isaac 149, 241
					Sites, Geo. F. 253
					Shelly, Capt. 76
					Slavery 104, 105, 150
					Smelling, Capt. 30
					Smith, Caleb B. 368
					Smith, Col. Harry B. 316
					Smith, Kirby 280, 282, 283
					Soldiers' Home 277, 287, 309
					South Bend 220
					Spain--Spaniards 19, 27, 92, 93, 103, 114, 310, 317
					Spicely, Gen. W. T. 248
					St. Clair, Gov. Arthur 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 91, 94, 95, 109, 170, 338
					Stage Coach 225, 241, 244
					St. Louis 28, 48, 70, 339
					St. Mary's Institute 220
					St. Mary's, Ohio 142, 342
					St. Ange 36, 46, 48
					Statistician 163
					Stars and Stripes 79, 169
					State House 145, 146, 153, 163, 192, 203, 226, 227, 321, 325
					State Museum 163
					State Normal 223, 299
					State Senate-Senator 352, 353, 362, 367
					State Troops 382, 312
					Stephens, Alexander A. 270
					Studebaker, Col. Geo. M. 316
					Sullivan, Jeremiah 222
					Sunman 295
					Supreme Court 162
					Supt. Public Instruction 162, 164, 165, 203
					Surveying 189, 191
					
					Tax 147, 301
					Tax Commission 163, 164, 302
					Taylor, Zachary 136, 241
					Teachers' Institutes 299
					Tecumseh 113, 115, 117, 118, 119, 120, 121, 122, 123, 128, 130, 133, 134, 141, 309,
						339
					Terre Haute 32, 124, 220, 231, 246
					Test, Charles H. 143, 252
					Texas 246, 247, 248, 354, 356
					Thanksgiving Day 349
					Tharp, Rose Hardwick 269
					The Gazette 224
					The Prophet 114, 115, 116, 117, 122, 125, 126, 129, 130, 133, 141, 309
					The Prophet's Town 115, 117, 118, 123, 124, 128, 339
					The Willing 71, 76, 77
					Thames 130, 141
					Timberlake, Colonel 286
					Tippecanoe 129, 130, 287, 309
					Tipton, Gen. John 142, 346
					Todd, Colonel 78, 79, 318
					Township 193, 194
					Township Trustee 166, 303
					Turnpike 232
					Underground Railway 266, 277
					Union City 362
					Union Troops 285, 309
					United States 76, 77, 78, 80, 81, 82, 84, 87, 88, 90, 93, 94, 96, 107, 108, 109,
						121, 122, 130, 131, 133, 135, 140, 142, 145, 154, 168, 190, 195, 217, 248, 268,
						314
					United States House of Representatives 353
					United States Navy 368
					United States Senate 95, 358
					United States Senators 156, 197, 345, 351, 352, 356, 357, 361
					United States Troops 89, 122, 239, 317
					University 164, 214, 220
					Van Buren 241
					Vance, David 95
					Vanderburg, Henry 94, 95, 102
					Veedersburg 366
					Vernon 293, 364
					Versailles 295
					Vice-President U. S. 103, 251, 325, 368
					Vienna 293
					Vigo, Frances 65, 67, 69, 70, 77, 118
					Vincennes 11, 30, 31, 32, 36, 38, 50, 63, 65, 69, 71, 72, 76, 77, 80, 81, 82, 85,
						84, 91, 92, 97, 98, 99, 102, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 116, 117, 118, 122, 123, 130, 145,
						147, 195, 202, 232, 317, 360, 361
					Vincennes, Frances Morgan 31, 36
					Virginia 56, 57, 65, 77, 78, 171, 239, 251, 338, 340, 347
					Virginia Council 58
					Virginia Troops 78, 169
					Voorhees, Daniel W. 268
					Voyageurs 21, 70
					Wabash College 220
					Wallace, Gov. David 231, 235, 252, 349
					Wallace, Gen. Lew 247, 273, 283, 290, 294, 368
					Wampum 16

					War-- 

							Black Hawk 238
							For the Union 267, 297, 362, 364
							Of Eighteen Hundred Twelve 131, 132
							Mexican 246
							Pontiac's 39
							Revolutionary 18, 51, 53, 54, 88, 134, 339
							Spanish-American 310, 314
						
				

				

					War Governor 357
					Washington, D. C. 143, 239, 317, 351, 361
					Washington, George 37, 87, 93, 268
					Washington, Ind. 232
					Wayne, Gen. Anthony 88, 89, 99, 338, 341
					Wea Village 264
					Wells, Captain 135
					Whitcomb, Governor 225, 226, 246, 312, 335, 350, 351
					White Water Valley 221
					Wilcox, Major-General 290
					Wilkinson, Gen. James 88, 189
					Willard, Ashbel P. 354, 355, 358
					Wilder's Brigade 367
					Williams, Colonel 294
					Williams, James D. 360, 361
					Wilson, Captain 123
					Winchester, General 140
					Winamac 120, 195
					Wisconsin 56, 84, 102
					Woollen, William Watson 369
					Woollen, William Wesley 345, 369
					Wright, Joseph A. 223, 352, 353, 354, 363, 365
				
			




		
	


