
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Brown, Demarchus Clariton, 1857-1926.. Government of Indiana. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2011).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAB9257
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		
			
			

				THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIANA
			
			
			
			
				
					THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIANA
				

				
					BY
					
					DEMARCHUS C. BROWN
					STATE LIBRARIAN OF INDIANA; MEMBER OF BOARD OF STATE CHARITIES; TRANSLATOR
						OF "SELECTIONS FROM LUCIAN"; FREUDENTHAL'S "AMERICAN PENOLOGY"; COMPILER OF LEGISLATIVE
						MANUAL OF INDIANA FOR 1907 AND 1909
				

				
					NEW YORK
					CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS
					1912
				
			

			

			

				COPYRIGHT, 1912, BY CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS
			


			

			
				PREFACE

				THE temptation to express individual judgment on the merits and
					results of constitutional provisions in Indiana is very great. The object of the present
					book is not to do that, but to give the facts, and that in outline, for the use of
					schools. For the grammar grades these simple facts are enough, in the opinion of the
					writer. The high school student must think and investigate somewhat for himself. He should
					make the references carefully. The teacher will assign other books which should be read
					with interest. The Commonwealth of Indiana is now old enough to have a profound interest
					in the history and government of the State. Pupils in the public schools ought to be
					encouraged and instructed in the study of early Middle West affairs. Popular government is
					yet in a formative, even chaotic, condition. The leading facts about the form of the
					government must therefore be taught to students in the grades and high schools. That is
					the object of this small volume. DEMARCHUS C. BROWN.
				
					January, 1912.
			

			
			

			
				REFERENCES
				THESE references are intended primarily for the teacher, who should
					choose the chapter or paragraph bearing directly upon the subject under discussion and
					encourage the pupils to read more than is given in this small manual. The intelligent
					enthusiasm of the teacher will decide whether the pupils become interested and learn much
					about this subject of civil government.

				
					GENERAL

					Boone--History of Education in Indiana.
					Bryce--The American Commonwealth.
					Burnet--Early Settlement of the Northwest Territory.
					Cockrum--Pioneer History of Indiana.
					DeTocqueville--Republic of the United States of America.
					Dillon--History of Indiana.
					Dunn--Indiana.
					English--The Conquest of the Northwest.
					Hinsdale--The Old Northwest.
					Indiana Board of State Charities--Reports.
					Indiana Documents.
					Indiana Historical Society--Publications.
					Indiana Quarterly Magazine of History.
					Levering--Historic Indiana.
					Lieber--Civil Liberty and Self Government.
					McCarty--Territorial Governors of the Old Northwest.
					Poore--Charters and Constitutions.
					Roosevelt--Winning of the West.
					Slocum--The Ohio Country.
					Thwaites--How George Rogers Clark Won the Northwest.
					Wilson--The State.
					Winsor--The Westward Movement.
					Winsor--The Mississippi Basin.
				

				

				
					THE CONSTITUTION

					Debates and Proceedings of the Constitutional Convention of 1850.
					Dodd--Review and Amendment of State Constitutions.
					Hendricks--History and Civil Government of Indiana.
					Hitchcock--American State Constitutions.
					Howard--Local Constitutional History of the United States.
					Jameson--The Constitutional Conventions.
					Lindley--Civics of Indiana.
					Rawles--Centralizing Tendencies in the Administration of Indiana.
					Rawles--Civil Government of Indiana.
					Stimson--Federal and State Constitutions of the United States.
					Thornton--The Constitutional Convention of 1850.
					Thornton--The Government of the State of Indiana.
					Thorpe--Federal and State Constitutions.
				

				
					COUNTY AND CITY

					Hendricks--History and Civil Government of Indiana.
					Howe--The City: The Hope of Democracy.
					Lindley--Civics of Indiana.
					National Municipal League--Proceedings.
					Rawles--Centralizing Tendencies in the Administration of Indiana.
					Rawles--Civil Government of Indiana.
				
			
		
		
			

			

			
				CONTENTS
				

					
						PAGE
					
						PREFACE, v

					
						REFERENCES, vii

					
						CHAPTER
					--HISTORY AND ORGANIZATION,1
						
							Ordinance of 1787,1
							Preamble and Bill of Rights,3
						

					--LEGISLATIVE DEPARTMENT,6

					--EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT,10
						
							Administrative Officers, Boards, and Commissions--Appointive,14
							State Institutions,23
						

					--JUDICIAL--THE COURTS,26

					--LOCAL GOVERNMENT,30
						
							County Officials--Elective,31
							County Judiciary,34
							Appointive County Officials,34
							The Township,38
							City and Town Government,39
							The City,40
							Elective--Executive,41
							Appointive Administrative Departments,42
						
				
			

			
			
				APPENDICES
				

					A.--LIST OF GOVERNORS,47
					B.--THE ORDINANCE OF 1787,49
					C.--CONSTITUTION OF THE STATE OF INDIANA,52
					INDEX
						77
				
			
			

			
			
				THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIANA


				

				

				THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIANA


				
					CHAPTER I
					HISTORY AND ORGANIZATION

					IN 1783 Virginia ceded all her claims to the Northwest Territory to
						the United States. Virginia had claimed ownership, and justly, too, because George
						Rogers Clark, one of her citizens, had wrested the western country from the British, who
						had taken it from the French, the first settlers. La Salle, as early as 1669, had
						explored the Ohio, and some years later he passed up the Wabash. The first trading posts
						in what is now Indiana were established at Ouiatanon, just below Lafayette, in 1720, and
						seven years later Vincennes was settled. These posts were under the control of the
						French officials in Canada. Prior to the settlements of the French the whole western
						country was in the possession of the Indians. Savage Indian chiefs, the French King, the
						King of England, the Federal Government, and the present State Government, have
						controlled the territory known as the Commonwealth of Indiana. Even the New England
						colonies and New York, as well as Virginia, before 1787, laid claim to this territory,
						but really had no civil control over it. The ordinance of 1787, superseding the
						ordinances of 1784 and 1786, which had been without results, is of the most value in
						studying the formative period of our government.

					
						ORDINANCE OF 1787

						A Governor, Legislative Council of five members, Secretary and Judges, were to be
							appointed by Congress. A House of Representatives of at least ten was chosen by the
							people.
						
						Religious freedom is granted.
						Schools are encouraged.
						Good faith shall be kept with the Indians.
						Not more than five States shall be formed from the Northwest Territory.
						There shall be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude except for the punishment of
							crime.
						Trial by jury, habeas corpus, and bail shall always be granted.
						Boundary lines are fixed for future States in this territory whenever 60,000
							inhabitants have settled there.
						The present government of Indiana is largely based on this ordinance.
						In 1787 Arthur St. Clair was chosen Governor, and three Judges were named with
							jurisdiction over this Northwest Territory. Vincennes was the capital.
						Twenty-two delegates to a General Assembly and a council of five were named in 1798.
							These delegates organized a legislative body in 1799. Later, in 1800, Indiana
							Territory was constituted and defined as all of the Northwest Territory west of what
							is now the eastern line of Indiana.
						The government of Indiana Territory began in 1800, at Vincennes, with William Henry
							Harrison as Governor. There were several attempts to modify the slavery clause in the
							1787 ordinance, but to the credit of the people, these were all frustrated.
						Indiana Territory was made smaller and smaller as the years went on. In 1805 Michigan
							was detached, and in 1809 Illinois. In a few years, as the population increased, the
							demand for statehood was heeded, and in 1814 Congress passed an enabling act, which
							was followed in 1816 by the First Constitutional Convention sitting at Corydon. There
							were forty-three members.
						This was superseded by the present Constitution, which was framed by the
							Constitutional Convention of 1850-51, and approved by the people at a popular
							election.
					

					

					
						PREAMBLE AND BILL OF RIGHTS

						
							The Preamble.--In the Constitution of Indiana, the preamble
							expresses what is common to all such articles, namely, that justice should be
							established, public order maintained, and liberty perpetuated; and further, that the
							people of the State of Indiana are grateful for the right to choose their own form of
							government.
						Bill of Rights.--The following points are covered in this,
							evidently, in part, a copy of the Declaration of Independence and the Federal
							Constitution:
						All men are created equal. All power is inherent in the people, who have at all times
							a right to alter their government.
						All men have a right to worship God according to the dictates of their own
							consciences, and no law shall interfere with the exercise and enjoyment of religious
							views. No law shall give preference to any creed, society, or mode of worship. No
							religious test shall be required. No money shall be drawn from the public treasury for
							the benefit of any religious institution.
						The laws shall not restrain the interchange of opinion nor restrict the right to
							speak on any subject whatever.
						All citizens shall be secure in their persons and houses, and shall not be subject to
							search or seizure without due warrant. Every man shall have a right in due course of
							law to preserve his property or reputation. The courts shall be open. An accused
							person shall have the right to a public trial and to meet his accusers face to face.
							No person shall be subject to trial twice for the same offence, nor be compelled to
							testify against himself.
						Cruel and unusual punishments shall not be inflicted. The penal code shall be founded
							on the principles of reformation and not vindictive justice. Trial by jury shall
							always remain inviolate. No man's property shall be taken by law without
							compensation.
						
						The General Assembly may not grant privileges to any citizen which shall not equally
							belong to all citizens. No law shall be passed impairing the obligation of contract.
							The writ of habeas corpus shall not be suspended. Treason shall consist only in
							levying war against the State.
						No law shall restrain the inhabitants of the State from assembly in a peaceable
							manner, nor from applying to the Legislature for redress of grievances.
						The military shall always be kept in subordination to the civil power. No soldier
							shall, in time of peace, be quartered in any house without the consent of the
							owner.
						The Legislature shall not grant any title of nobility nor confer hereditary
							distinction. There shall not be any slavery nor involuntary servitude within the
							State, except for the punishment of crime.
						There are many points in this Bill of Rights which deserve very careful attention.
							Many of them are far in advance of the time in which they were adopted. They are, in
							fact, the leading part of the whole Constitution.
						Suffrage and Election.--Elections shall be free and equal. Every
							male citizen, twenty-one years old, who shall have resided in the State six months, in
							the township sixty days, and in the precinct thirty days, preceding the election,
							shall have the right of suffrage. If a foreigner shall have resided in the United
							States one year, and shall have fulfilled the above requirements, and shall have
							declared his intention to become a citizen of the United States, he shall be entitled
							to vote.
						Every person who shall have given or offered a bribe, threat or reward to procure his
							election shall be disqualified from holding the office for which he may have been
							elected. No person who is a collector or holder of public funds shall be eligible to
							any office until he shall have accounted for and paid over all sums for which he may
							be liable. All citizens shall be free from arrest in going to elections and returning
							from them. All elections by the people shall be by ballot. All State elections  shall be held on the first Tuesday after the first Monday
							in November.
						The Bill of Rights, as summed up above, and the sections on Suffrage and Election
							take up the first two articles of the Constitution.
						ARTICLE III. By this article, the powers of government are divided
							into three departments: the Legislative, the Executive (Administrative), and the
							Judicial.
						ARTICLE IV of the Constitution, with thirty sections, is devoted
							to the Legislative Department.
						ARTICLE V, with twenty-four sections, to the Executive
							Department.
						ARTICLE VI, ten sections, to the Administrative Department, which
							is really a part of the Executive Department.
						ARTICLE VII, to the Judiciary, in twenty-one sections.
						ARTICLE VIII is devoted to Education. The State Institutions are
							covered in ARTICLE IX; Finance in ARTICLE X;
							Corporations in ARTICLE XI; the Militia in ARTICLE XII. ARTICLE XIII discusses in one section,
							Political and Municipal Corporations. Boundaries are defined in ARTICLE XIV. All other topics except Amendments are given in ARTICLE XV, entitled "Miscellaneous," while ARTICLE XVI
							defines the method of Amendment.

					
				
				

				
					CHAPTER II
					LEGISLATIVE DEPARTMENT

					The Two Houses.--According to the Constitution, there shall be a
						Senate and a House of Representatives. The Senate shall have no more than fifty, and the
						House of Representatives no more than one hundred members. Senators shall be elected for
						a term of four years and Representatives for two years. A provision is made that the
						Senators shall be divided by lot into two equal classes; so that twenty-five shall be
						elected every two years. The result of this is that there are always twenty-five
						experienced members in the Legislature. Senators and Representatives must be citizens of
						the United States and at least twenty-five and twenty-one years of age respectively.
					The number of Senators and Representatives shall be apportioned among the counties
						according to the number of voters in each. Districts are then made according to this
						enumeration.
					Rights of Members.--Privilege from arrest is granted to all members
						of the Legislature during its sittings, nor shall the members be subject to any civil
						process during the sitting of the Assembly, nor during the fifteen days immediately
						preceding the same. A member shall not be questioned for any speech or debate in either
						House, except in the House itself.
					Sessions.--Biennial sessions of the General Assembly must be held at
						the capital of the State, beginning on the Thursday after the first Monday of January
						every second year after 1853. The Assembly, however, has the right to name a different
						day or place by law. A special session may be called by the Governor if he believes that
						the public welfare requires it. Sixty-one days is the limit of the regular session,
						forty of the special.
					
					Officers.--Each house shall choose its own officers and shall be the
						judge of the election and qualification of its own members, and may determine its own
						rules of procedure. The Senate chooses its secretary, clerks, and doorkeepers just as
						the House does, but not its presiding officer, which position the Lieutenant-Governor
						fills. The House selects its own presiding officer, the Speaker.
					Miscellaneous Duties of the Two Houses.--Each house shall keep a
						Journal of its Proceedings which must be published. Two-thirds of the members constitute
						a quorum. A smaller number, however, may meet and adjourn from day to day and compel the
						attendance of absent members. The doors of each house shall be kept open. The members
						may be punished by either house and even expelled by a two-thirds vote. Persons who are
						not members may be imprisoned by either house for disorderly behavior in its presence.
						Bills for raising revenue shall originate in the House of Representatives. All other
						bills may be introduced in either house.
					Method of Law-Making.--Every bill shall be read by sections on three
						separate days unless, in case of emergency, two-thirds of the members dispense with this
						rule. The vote on the passage of every bill shall always be by yeas and nays. A majority
						of all the members of each house shall be necessary to pass a bill and all bills so
						passed shall be signed by the presiding officers. Every bill shall cover but one subject
						and that must be expressed in the title. By the rules of the two houses, a bill
						immediately after introduction is referred to an appropriate committee which reports for
						or against its passage or for its amendment and passage.
					Local and Special Laws.--The Legislature is prohibited from passing
						local or special laws on the following subjects:
					
						The jurisdiction and duties of Justices of the Peace and Constables; the punishment
							of crimes and misdemeanors; practice in Courts of Justice; change of venue in civil
							and criminal  cases; divorces; changing the names of
							persons; laying out, opening, and working highways; vacating roads, plats, streets,
							alleys, and squares; summoning and impanelling juries; the election of county and
							township officers; the assessment and collection of all taxes; the common schools and
							school funds; fees and salaries; interest on money; elections of all State and local
							officers, and the places of holding elections; the sale of real estate belonging to
							minors.
						Putting the matter in another way, all laws on the above-named subjects must apply to
							the whole State.
					
						Pay of Members.--The members of the Legislature shall receive
						compensation fixed by statute. This compensation, however, shall not be increased during
						the session at which an increase may be made. The pay of a member, six dollars per day
						at present, does not extend beyond the terms of the session, namely, sixty-one days, nor
						of a special session, the limit of which is forty days. During the term for which a
						member may have been elected, he shall not be eligible to any office by election, nor
						shall he be appointed to any office of profit.
					Committees.--The list of committees appointed in the two houses
						covers all the subjects on which there may be legislation. They are approximately the
						same in each house. The important committees are as follows:
					
						Finance, Ways and Means in the House. City of Indianapolis. Corporations. Banks. Fees
							and Salaries. Judiciary. Education. Benevolent Institutions. Public Health. Railroads.
							Agriculture. Elections. Labor. Public Libraries. Public Morals. Congressional
							Apportionment. Legislative Apportionment. Insurance. Public Printing. Prisons. Rivers
							and Waters.
					There are also a few joint committees. For instance, committees on enrolled bills,
						public buildings, and rules.
					
					Election of United States Senators.--The General Assembly has put
						upon it by the United States Constitution the special duty of electing United States
						Senators.

					
						QUESTIONS

						Why was Indiana Territory so named?
						What do you consider the most important points in the Ordinance of 1787?
						Who wrote this ordinance?
						What States have been made from the Northwest Territory?
						What people have governed this territory?
						Who governs it now?
						What is a Bill of Rights?
						Do you think the principles laid down in the Bill of Rights are practised now?
						If a candidate promises an official position in order to secure votes for himself,
							should he be disqualified from holding office?
						Give a brief outline of the Constitution.
						What should a Constitution contain?
						Should it be easily changed? Give reasons for your answer.
						Why are two houses necessary in the legislative department?
						Is there any reason why Senators should serve four years and Representatives two?
						Is sixty days too long or too short for a sitting of the Assembly?
						What is the Journal of the Senate or House?
						Where must bills for raising revenue originate? Why?
						What method is used to prevent the rushing of a bill through the two houses?
						Who appoints the committees? On what basis?
						May the legislature order the United States Senators from Indiana to vote in a
							certain way in the United States Senate?
						What privileges do members of the Legislature have?
						What is a "special law"?
						How many members of the Legislature are there?
						How much are the members paid?
						Describe the process of making a law.
						Name some important committees of the Legislature.
						What are the duties of these committees?
					
				
				

				
					CHAPTER III
					EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT

					The Governor.--The Governor is the Chief Executive of the State. He
						serves for four years, and shall not succeed himself. No person shall be eligible to the
						office of Governor unless he has been a citizen of the United States for five years, and
						of Indiana for five years immediately preceding his election.
					He shall be at least thirty years of age. The following duties are imposed upon the
						Governor:
					First: He shall take care that the laws be faithfully executed.
					Second: He shall have the power to grant reprieves, commutations, and pardons for all
						offences except treason and impeachment, subject, of course, to the law.
					Third: He shall be the Commander-in-Chief of the military forces of the State, and may
						call out such forces to execute the laws.
					Fourth: He shall give to the Legislature in the form of a message information on the
						condition of the State, and recommend whatever measures he thinks proper.
					Fifth: He shall sign all bills which have passed the General Assembly. If he does not
						sign, he must return the bill with his objections to the house in which it originated.
						This house shall enter the Governor's objections on its journals and may then reconsider
						the bill and by a majority of the members pass it over the Governor's veto.
					Sixth: The Governor shall appoint certain heads of departments and members of Boards
						and Commissions according to law. (These will be pointed out further on.)
					Seventh: He shall issue writs of election to fill vacancies which may occur in the
						General Assembly.
					
					The term of office of the Governor shall commence on the second Monday in January in
						every fourth year after 1853.
					If the capital of the State should be in danger from disease or from a public enemy,
						the Governor may convene the Legislature at some other place. The salary of the Governor
						shall be fixed by law and shall not be increased nor diminished during his term of
						office.
					The Lieutenant-Governor.--The Lieutenant-Governor is elected at the
						same time as the Governor and members of the Legislature and serves for four years.
					The same conditions of citizenship are required as of the Governor. The
						Lieutenant-Governor shall be the President of the Senate and shall serve as Governor if
						the Governor be removed from office or if he is unable to discharge the duties of the
						office. In such a case as this, the Senate shall select one of its own members as its
						presiding officer. As presiding officer of the Senate, the Lieutenant-Governor has the
						right to join in debate in committee of the whole, and to vote. Otherwise, he shall give
						the casting vote whenever the Senate is equally divided. The compensation of the
						Lieutenant-Governor is fixed by law and is the same as that of the Speaker of the House
						of Representatives. In the case of contested elections for either Governor or
						Lieutenant-Governor, the decision shall rest with the General Assembly. Neither the
						Governor nor Lieutenant-Governor shall be eligible to any other office during the term
						of service for which he shall have been elected.
					Other Elective Officers.--The Constitution provides for the election
						of a Secretary of State, an Auditor, and Treasurer, to serve for two years. They may,
						however, be re-elected, but only for four years in any period of six. Their duties are
						implied by their titles.
					Secretary of State.--The public records of the State are kept by this
						officer. He attests the signature of the Governor. All articles of incorporation are
						granted and the record of them kept in this office. The Secretary of State keeps the
						enrolled  bills of the General Assembly and publishes and
						distributes the Session Laws. Like all other State officials, he makes a report to the
						Legislature. The requirements of his office are defined in detail by law. He is a member
						of the State Board of Tax Commissioners and the Commissioners of Public Printing.
					Auditor of State.--This official is the State's bookkeeper. He keeps
						the accounts of the State with the counties, the United States, and other States. All
						warrants on the State's funds are drawn by him in accordance with appropriation acts
						passed by the Assembly. He collects the money due to the State. Insurance companies,
						State banks, and building and loan associations report their condition to him. Bank
						examiners are appointed by the Auditor. The land records are also under his charge. The
						Auditor is a member of several commissions which will be mentioned further on.
					Treasurer of State.--The Treasurer gives a large bond that he will
						keep safely the funds of the State. At present, however, the money is deposited in
						banks--named according to law--and the interest belongs to the public. Money is paid
						into the treasury through an order of the Auditor, and may be paid out only on a warrant
						of the same officer specifying the party to receive it and the fund from which it is
						drawn. No money can be paid unless duly appropriated by the Legislature. The Treasurer
						must by law publish in the newspapers at stated times the condition of the State's
						funds, and must make a biennial report to the Legislature. The fiscal year of the State
						begins October first. All unexpended balances are transferred to the general fund at the
						end of the fiscal year.
					Attorney-General.--This officer represents the State in all legal
						matters. He interprets the law for all State officials and advises the Legislature as to
						the constitutionality of a proposed law. He defends the commonwealth in all of its suits
						in court and serves as prosecutor for the State. He collects forfeitures, fines, or fees
						due the State. This office was created by law in 1855. The term is two years.
					
					Geologist.--According to law, the State Geologist must be a geologist
						and natural scientist. He is the Curator of the State Museum of Geology and Natural
						History. He is required to make geological surveys of the State and collect and publish
						information about the natural resources of the State. These facts are presented in his
						Geological Reports. The Geologist is elected for four years.
					State Superintendent of Public Instruction.--This very important
						position is subject to nomination by political parties.
					This official is elected for a term of two years, without any limitation as to the
						number of terms. His duties cover all the subjects bearing on public education and the
						distribution and use of funds for that purpose. The school laws and their administration
						are subject to the interpretation of the Superintendent of Public Instruction. He must
						compile statistics of the schools and report biennially to the Legislature the condition
						of the school revenue and school property. The school funds of the various counties are
						also subject to his inspection. He is the President of the State Board of Education.
						According to the Constitution, the Legislature may add to his duties. The official force
						under the Superintendent of Public Instruction includes trained people to assist in the
						supervision of the common schools in the State.
					Statistician.--This office was not established by the Constitution,
						but by law in 1879. The object is to collect and present general statistics on labor,
						social conditions, manufacturing, mining, and all the interests of the State. These must
						be reported to the Governor and to the General Assembly. By a recent law, an Employment
						Bureau is under the control of this office. In this, with its departments in different
						sections of the State, men and women out of employment may be registered, and persons
						looking for workingmen or help of any sort may register in this office.
					Clerk of the Supreme Court.--This officer is elected by popular vote.
						He preserves the records of the Supreme Court  and issues
						the writs of that court. His term of office is four years.
					Reporter of the Supreme Court.--The law of 1875 established the
						office of Reporter of the Supreme Court, to serve for four years. All decisions of the
						Supreme and Appellate Courts are arranged and printed by this officer.
					The last two officers mentioned belong properly to the courts; but, as they are classed
						as State officials, it is not out of place to put them in the list of elective
						officers.
					All State officers may be removed from office for crime, incapacity, or negligence,
						either by impeachment by the House of Representatives with the Senate as a trial court
						or by a joint resolution of the General Assembly. This must, however, be done by a
						majority of two-thirds of the members.

					
						ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
						APPOINTIVE

						State Board of Health.--This Board has three divisions: the first
							may be called the State Board of Health. It consists of five members, four of whom are
							appointed by the Governor, Secretary of State, and Auditor of State. These four elect
							the fifth member who becomes the Secretary of the Board. He is the Chief Health
							Officer of the State. The duties of the Board are varied: It must keep a record of all
							births and deaths, of all infectious diseases, and must keep a complete record of the
							vital statistics of the State. The Board of Health has the right of inspection of the
							public school buildings of the State with power to close them if they are not kept in
							a sanitary condition. The health officers of the various townships are under the
							supervision of this State Board. The second department is called the State Laboratory
							of Hygiene, Food, and Drugs, and is in charge of a Commissioner and Chief Chemist
							appointed by the Board of Health. This department is charged with the examination of
								 foods and drugs as manufactured and sold in the State
							of Indiana. By a recent law, the weights and measures are under control of this
							department. The third department is the Bacteriological Department in charge of a
							superintendent appointed by the Board. In this department microscopical examinations
							of bacteria and germs are made to find the cause and nature of diseases. It takes a
							large staff of trained physicians, chemists, pathologists, and inspectors to conduct
							the work of this Board in a proper manner.
						State Board of Medical Registration and Examination.--The law of
							1897 established this Board. There are six members appointed by the Governor, for a
							term of four years each. The granting of licenses to practice medicine rests entirely
							with the power of this Board. They must by certain rules and regulations decide upon
							the fitness of applicants to practice in the State of Indiana. This is now done by
							examination even after the applicant has received his medical degree.
						State Board of Education.--There are eleven members of this
							Board--eight of them ex-officio, namely, the Governor, Superintendent of Public
							Instruction, the Presidents of the three State Schools, and the Superintendents of
							Schools of the three largest cities in the State. Three more are appointed by the
							Governor from persons actively engaged in educational work. This Board has the
							authority to examine teachers for licenses in all the counties of the State, and has
							also the general supervision of the administration of the schools. It serves as a
							Board of School Book Commissioners, to adopt text-books for the schools of the State.
							The Board prescribes courses of study and designates and classifies certain schools
							which shall have the power to give normal instruction. High schools receive their
							commissions and certificates from the Board of Education. This Board also elects five
							trustees of Indiana University.
						The State Board of Education sits as a State Library Board with power to elect the
							State Librarian and to receive reports from him.
						
						Public Library Commission.-Instruction in library work for persons
							in public libraries, travelling libraries, the organization of public libraries, and
							biennial reports from all libraries of Indiana, make up the duties of the Commission.
							The members, three in number--appointed by the Governor,--serve for three years
							without pay. They select a head organizer with assistants, all of whom are trained for
							library work. A biennial report is rendered to the Governor and the Legislature. A
							library summer school is held every year.
						State Librarian.--This official is chosen by the State Board of
							Education, sitting as a Library Board. He serves for two years. The Library under his
							control is for reference purposes, but the law permits the lending of books in the
							discretion of the Librarian. References and advice about books of all kinds are made
							and given to all libraries and citizens in the State. All documents (except laws) and
							reports of departments must be kept on file and distributed by this office. All United
							States Reports also are deposited here for the use of everybody. Books for the blind
							are loaned to blind readers in the State. The Legislative Reference Department is a
							part of the State Library. Its duties are defined by law to be the collection,
							classification, and cataloguing of reports, books, articles, laws, everything that
							will assist the legislator and public official in their work. The drawing of bills
							upon request is also permitted. The head of this department must be educated in
							political science, trained in comparative legislation, and experienced in legislative
							reference work in a good library.
						Board of State Charities.--This Board was created by the law of
							1889. There are six members, appointed by the Governor to serve for three years. The
							Governor is ex-officio member and Chairman of the Board. The duties of this Board are
							very broad, covering the inspection and supervision of all charitable and correctional
							institutions in the entire State, including city and county, and private institutions
							if children are cared for in them. The work of finding homes for and placing dependent
								 children in homes belongs to the department of this
							Board's work known as the State Agency. Members of the Board of State Charities serve
							without pay. The Secretary, who is chosen by the Board, and all the agents and office
							force are paid. The plans for county jails and infirmaries must be approved by this
							Board before building can proceed. The Board issues a quarterly bulletin as well as
							regular reports. Charges filed against any institution are investigated by the Board
							of State Charities either at its own discretion or by direction of the Governor. The
							Township Poor Relief reports are kept on file in this office. In addition, the name
							and history, as far as it can be known, of every inmate of every institution in the
							entire State is filed here for public reference.
						Truancy Board.--Two members, ex-officio, compose this Board--the
							Secretary of the Board of State Charities and a member of the State Board of Education
							selected by that Board. They have general supervision over the execution of the
							truancy laws.
						Board of Pardons.--Though the Governor has the power to pardon
							given him by the Constitution, the law of 1903 established a State Board of Pardons of
							three members appointed by the Governor to serve four years. They shall carefully
							examine into all petitions for pardon which are submitted to the Governor and report
							their conclusions and recommendations to the Governor, who then acts as he thinks
							best.
						The members are paid $300 per annum with expenses.
						State Board of Tax Commissioners.--This is the Board which fixes
							the valuation for taxation of railroads, express companies, traction lines, telegraph
							and telephone lines, and other corporations which give public service. Two members are
							ex-officio: the Auditor and the Secretary of State. Three are appointed by the
							Governor (not more than two from one party), for a four-year term. The counties must
							be visited once a year by a member of this Board to listen to complaints and collect
							information of the workings of the law. The decisions of the County Board  of Review may be appealed to this Board. The assessment of
							real estate in the counties is reviewed and equalized by this Board.
						Board of Finance.--Various laws define the duties of this Board
							which consists of the Governor, the Auditor, and the Treasurer of State. Naturally,
							their labors are connected with the financial policy to be adopted by the State during
							a given administration. They carry into effect the depository law and designate the
							banks where the State's funds must be deposited. The Auditor is the Secretary of the
							Board. The sessions must be public.
						Commissioners of Public Printing.--This is an ex-officio Board
							consisting of the Governor, the Secretary of State, the Auditor of State, and the
							Reporter of the Supreme Court. It is responsible for all the printing and binding
							ordered by the Legislature, Boards, Commissions, and Institutions. All stationery used
							by the various offices must be ordered through the clerk in charge of this office, who
							is chosen by the Commissioners.
						The Railroad Commission.--The members of this Commission, three in
							number, serve four years, receiving their appointment from the Governor. They have
							inspectors to assist them. They inquire into railway and traction accidents, regulate
							freight and passenger tariffs and car service, and in general supervise the railway
							service in the State.
						The Public Accounting Board.--A chief examiner and his deputy
							examiners are named by the Chief Executive of the State to serve for four years. The
							Chief Examiner by examination appoints accountants to attend to the detail work. They
							inspect the books and accounts of all public officials in Indiana, township, city,
							county, and State. They establish a uniform system of accounts for all these offices.
							This board was established by law in 1909. A very important service is rendered by
							these examinations. The Board of Accounts, to whom the examiner reports, is composed
							of the Governor, the Auditor, the Treasurer, and the State Examiner.
						The Adjutant-General.--This officer with the Quartermaster-General
							and the Commissary-General is appointed for four years 
							by the Governor. They must have military training and execute all orders given by the
							Commander-in-Chief. All records, funds, and supplies are under the charge of these
							officers.
						The National Guard.--Article XII of the Constitution provides that
							all able-bodied citizens between 18 and 45 years of age may be enrolled in the
							militia. The divisions into brigades, regiments, battalions, and companies, and the
							ranking of officers shall be determined by the Legislature. Persons who are
							conscientiously opposed to carrying arms may be excused, but they must pay for the
							exemption, the amount to be fixed by law. All militia officers above major are
							appointed by the Governor, who is ex-officio Commander of the military forces of the
							State. The law provides for the organization of infantry, artillery, cavalry, hospital
							corps, engineers, signal corps, and military bands. If it is necessary to enforce the
							law, suppress a mob or insurrection, the Governor may call out this militia. Local
							officials, as sheriffs, judges of courts, or mayors of cities, may call upon the
							Governor to send the troops if they are unable to enforce the law. There is a
							Major-General in direct command of the National Guard.
						The Legislative Investigating Committee.--Indiana is alone in
							having this official body. Ten days after the election of members of the General
							Assembly the Governor appoints two members of the House and one Senator to serve on
							this Committee. They visit every State Institution, and office of every Board,
							Commission, and State Officer, and not only take their written statements as to their
							financial needs for the next biennial period, but also inspect for themselves. Their
							report is made to the legislature and from it the finance committees of the two houses
							decide, in a large measure, upon the needed appropriations.
						State Bureau of Inspection.--This Bureau was established in 1911
							and takes the place of the Factory Inspector, Inspector of Mines, and Labor
							Commissioners. There is a Chief Inspector in charge of three departments: Department
							of Inspection of  Buildings, Factories and Workshops;
							Department of Inspection of Mines and Mining; Department of Inspection of Boilers. The
							Governor appoints the Chief and the deputies for four years. The deputies may appoint
							assistants. An experience of ten years is necessary for the deputies and assistants.
							Written reports of all inspections shall be filed.
						Commissioner of Fisheries and Game.--The duties of this officer are
							plainly indicated in the title of the office. The protection and propagation of fish,
							game, animals, and birds, and the execution of the laws on the subject are comprised
							in his work. He may appoint deputies in the counties to assist him. The Governor
							appoints him for two years.
						Entomologist.--The fruit, shade, and ornamental trees of Indiana
							are under the protection of the State Entomologist. His reports and bulletins, in
							which plant diseases are fully discussed, are circulated among the people. By the law
							of 1909 this officer is State inspector of apiaries. All information will be sent on
							request. The Governor appoints this official for a term of four years.
						Custodian of the State House.--This officer is in charge of the
							Capitol, its equipment, and the grounds surrounding it. He is appointed by the
							Governor, the Secretary of State, and the Auditor of State serving as a board in
							charge of public buildings.
						Notaries Public.--Their term is four years. Their appointment comes
							from the Governor and their pay from fees. They administer oaths and certify the
							signing of deeds, affidavits, depositions, and all legal papers.
						Board of Forestry.--The Secretary of this Board must be trained in
							the knowledge of trees and their preservation. There are four members besides the
							secretary, all of whom are selected by the Governor. There is a Forest Reservation
							owned by the Commonwealth in the southern part of the State. The business of this
							Board is to preserve and renew the timber lands of the State.
						Oil Inspector.--All mineral or petroleum oil, whether manufactured
							or sold in this State, must be inspected. By the law of 
							1903 the Governor shall appoint a chief inspector or supervisor to serve for four
							years. This supervisor shall appoint one inspector in each congressional district. The
							Governor has the right to remove his appointee whenever he is unfaithful in his
							duties. The oil inspectors do not receive a salary from the State. Their pay comes
							from fees for inspections, the amount of which is fixed by law.
						State Veterinarian.--The health of the domestic animals of the
							State and the prevention of contagious diseases among them rests with the State
							Veterinarian who is appointed by the Governor for four years. He has the power to
							employ assistants to carry out the provisions of the law. The Governor, Auditor of
							State, and Treasurer of State shall fix the salary of this official provided that it
							shall not exceed $1,200. These State officials have the authority also to audit the
							accounts of the veterinarian.
						Registration and Examination of Nurses.--Five nurses, named by the
							Governor and serving for three years, compose the State Board of Registration and
							Examination of Nurses. The County Clerk issues a license to any one who passes the
							examination fixed by this board for trained nurses.
						Board of Embalmers.--By the law of 1901, this consists of five
							persons named by the Governor to serve four years. They receive a per diem and actual
							expenses. They examine all applicants for the position of caring for dead bodies. A
							small fee is required of all applicants.
						Board of Pharmacy.--There are five members of this Board serving
							four years. They are named by the Governor. Three may be of the same political party.
							They examine candidates and grant licenses to pharmacists.
						Board of Dental Examiners.--The Governor appoints only one of this
							body. The Indiana Dental Association names three and the State Board of Health one.
							Their term of service is two years. Certificates are granted to applicants who pass
							the examinations. County Clerks issue the licenses.
						
						Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument. Board of Control.--Three soldiers
							or sailors of the Mexican, Civil, or Spanish Wars are appointed to control the
							Monument and grounds, each to serve for three years. Only two may belong to the same
							political party. They shall choose a Superintendent who shall appoint his
							subordinates. This Superintendent has direct charge of the Soldiers' and Sailors'
							Monument in Indianapolis.
						Voluntary Commissions and Associations Receiving Public Funds.--The
							leading one of these is the State Board of Agriculture, whose object is the
							development of agriculture in the State and the giving of the annual State Fair.
							Besides this Board there is the Live Stock Breeders' Association, the State
							Horticultural Society, the Indiana Academy of Science, the Indiana Historical Society,
							the Corn Growers' Association, the Short-Horned Breeders' Association, the Dairymen's
							Association, and the Florists' Association. Most of these receive an amount of money
							from the State Treasury to publish their reports which thus become public documents.
							The State Board of Agriculture is a self-perpetuating body, under the control, in
							part, of the laws of the State.
						Special Commissions.--The Legislature from time to time creates
							special bodies to make investigations into particular problems and to publish reports
							upon them. Some of these commissions are for historical and memorial purposes; for
							instance, the Vicksburg Battlefield Commission, the Shiloh Commission, the Antietam
							Commission, the Chickamauga Commission, all of which have erected memorials on the
							battlefields and published a list and record of all the Indiana troops engaged in
							these battles. There are at present a Prison Labor Commission, an Industrial Education
							Commission, and an Indiana Centennial Commission. All of these file their reports.
					
					

					
						STATE INSTITUTIONS

						Indiana University.--This is located at Bloomington and is under
							the control of eight trustees. Five are selected by the State Board of Education and
							three by the graduates of the University. The University has the following
							departments: Literary, Scientific, Law, and Medicine. Part of the work of the last is
							done at Indianapolis in the School of Medicine.
						Purdue University.--This is situated at Lafayette. It is the
							Agricultural and Technical School of the State. Its control is in the hands of nine
							trustees. The State Board of Agriculture nominates two and the State Board of
							Horticulture one. The Governor appoints all of them.
						The State Normal School.--Terre Haute is the place where this is
							located. Its work is the preparation of teachers for the schools of the State. There
							are four trustees named by the Governor.
						Insane.--There are five hospitals for the insane in the
							commonwealth: the Central Hospital at Indianapolis, the Northern at Logansport, the
							Eastern at Richmond, the Southern at Evansville, and the South-eastern at North
							Madison. Each one of the hospitals is controlled by a board of four members equally
							divided politically. They are appointed by the Governor and may be removed for cause.
							They are required to select a trained and experienced superintendent of each hospital
							and leave to him the selection of all his subordinates, who must be chosen for fitness
							and no other reason.
						Penal.--There are five of these in the state: the Indiana Prison at
							Michigan City, the Women's Prison and House of Correction at Indianapolis, the
							Reformatory at Jeffersonville, and for juveniles, the Boys' School at Plainfield and
							the Girls' School at Clermont. These are all controlled the same way as the hospitals
							for the insane, namely, by four directors appointed by the Governor.
						
						Epileptic and Tuberculosis Hospitals.--The village for epileptics
							is located near Newcastle on a farm of twelve hundred acres. It is built on the
							cottage plan. Its control is the same as that of other State institutions. The
							Tuberculosis Hospital, recently opened, is situated at Rockville. There are only three
							members of the board controlling this institution. They are named by the Governor.
						School for Feeble-Minded.--The care of feeble-minded youth and the
							custody of feeble-minded women are the work of this institution, located at Fort
							Wayne, with a farm colony removed some distance from the main institution. The
							Governor appoints four members on this board.
						Soldiers' Home and Soldiers' and Sailors' Orphans' Home.--The
							former of these is near Lafayette, the latter near Knightstown. Former soldiers and
							their wives are cared for at the Soldiers' Home--their orphans at the Soldiers' and
							Sailors' Orphans' Home. Boards of trustees numbering four control each
							institution.
						The Deaf and the Blind.--The Institution for the Deaf is
							immediately north of Indianapolis, and that for the Blind, in Indianapolis. These
							institutions are schools, but with the benevolent features of giving a home and board
							most of the year to the pupils. They are controlled by trustees, four in number,
							appointed by the Governor.
						All of the trustees of the Indiana Girls' School and the Women's Prison are women.
							One member of the board of directors of the Soldiers' and Sailors' Orphans' Home and
							of the School for Feeble-Minded Youth is a woman.
					

					
						QUESTIONS

						Why should the Governor not succeed himself?
						Is there any danger in that?
						Name some of the duties and powers of the Governor.
						What is the work of the Lieutenant-Governor?
						Who gives the names of candidates for office to the voters?
						
						Do the people vote for them because they are trained for the positions or because
							they have been nominated by a party?
						Name the officers of the administration who are elected by popular vote.
						What is the fiscal year?
						Define the duties of the State officer whose position is most intimately connected
							with your school.
						May State officials be removed from office?
						Who has the power of pardon?
						What is an Administrative Board?
						Name three which you consider very important.
						By whom are members of Boards appointed?
						How does a physician obtain the right to practise medicine?
						What Board has duties in connection with the unfortunates of the State?
						What are the State Schools of Indiana?
						Who has the power to investigate a railroad accident; the books of a State or county
							officer?
						What is the militia?
						How does the General Assembly find out what the offices, boards, and institutions
							need for their maintenance?
						Is there any way of knowing whether a mine is in a dangerous condition or a factory
							building unsafe or unsanitary?
						How are fish and game protected?
						How has Indiana honored the memory of the soldiers who fought in the Civil War?
						Locate the various institutions in the State for the care of the unfortunate.
						How are they governed? What are the requirements for the superintendents?
					
				

				
				
					CHAPTER IV
					JUDICIAL--THE COURTS

					THE Constitution, in Article VII, rests the judicial power of the
						State in a Supreme Court, Circuit Courts, and other courts which the General Assembly
						may establish. The Appellate Court for the State at large and Superior, Criminal, and
						Probate Courts for certain counties, and Police Courts for cities, have been authorized
						by law. Justices of the Peace are authorized by the Constitution in each township of the
						various counties.
					The Supreme Court.--This court shall by the Constitution consist of
						not less than three nor more than five judges. They shall hold their offices for six
						years. The State shall be divided into as many districts as there are judges. The
						judges, however, are elected by all the voters of the State. A judge, however, shall be
						elected from the district in which he resides. There are two terms of this court held
						each year beginning the fourth Monday in May and the fourth Monday in November. The
						judges choose one of their own number as Chief Justice. No judge, however, can serve
						twice as Chief Justice until each of the other judges has presided over the court. Three
						members of the court make a quorum. There are three officers in the Supreme Court--a
						Clerk and a Reporter, elected by the people of the State, whose duties are defined under
						"Administrative Officers"; and the Sheriff, who is appointed by the judges to serve for
						two years. He executes the orders of the Court, serves all their writs, and maintains
						order in the court-room.
					Jurisdiction of the Supreme Court.--The Supreme Court determines the
						cases which have been appealed from the lower courts of the entire State. It ascertains
						whether a particular  law is constitutional and whether a
						trial in a local court has been legally held. A majority of the judges decides the case.
						All the decisions of the Court are in writing and are prepared for publication by the
						Reporter of the Court. Any Judge of the Supreme Court may preside at a trial in any
						county of the district from which he is elected.
					The Appellate Court.--The Supreme Court was so crowded with cases
						that in 1891 the Legislature created the Appellate Court to relieve the pressure. This
						court was to serve for a few years only, but the business has increased so rapidly that
						the Court is still in existence. There are six Judges in the Appellate Court serving for
						five years. They are chosen by the electors of the State. This Court has jurisdiction in
						all cases appealed from the lower courts which do not in their importance go to the
						Supreme Court. Their decisions are final unless the Constitutionality of a statute or an
						ordinance is questioned. The Clerk and the Sheriff of the Supreme Court serve also in
						the Appellate Court. These Judges are nominated by party conventions and their names
						appear on party tickets.
					Court of Claims.--In Indiana there is no State Court of Claims. If
						any claim is brought against the Commonwealth, it must come before the Superior Court of
						Marion County, which, by the law of 1889, is made a Court of Claims.
					Circuit Courts.--The State is divided into circuits in each of which
						the voters elect a judge for a term of six years. This Judge presides over the Court in
						each county of the Circuit. These Circuit Courts have jurisdiction in all civil and
						criminal cases in the Circuit.
					Superior Courts.--In the more thickly populated counties, it has been
						found necessary to establish additional courts for civil cases. The voters of the
						several counties elect these Superior Judges. Some of these counties have one Superior
						Court Judge while Marion County has five.
					Criminal Courts.--The larger counties of the State have been
						compelled to establish courts in which criminal cases are tried.  The Judges of these courts are chosen by the voters in the county, to serve
						for four years. These judges, also, are nominated by party conventions.
					Prosecuting Attorney.--Each Circuit has a Prosecuting Attorney
						elected by the people to serve two years. It is his business to prosecute all offenders
						against the State laws.
					Other Officers of the Court.--The Courts in the several counties have
						clerks to keep the records and papers and administer oaths, and sheriffs to execute all
						writs of the court. Attorneys are also considered officers of the court.
					Juvenile Court.--This Court was created by the law of 1903. It is a
						special court, having jurisdiction in all cases relating to children, delinquent,
						truant, and children asked for by the Board of Children's Guardians. Wherever the legal
						punishment of children is at stake, this court has power. If the population is 100,000
						or more, there is a separate Judge; if less than that, the Circuit Judge sits as
						Juvenile Court Judge. He is elected and serves four years. He has large discretionary
						powers in the trial of children, and the care of children shall be as nearly parental as
						possible. Delinquent parents and all persons responsible for the wrongdoing, suffering,
						or neglect of children may be brought before him.
					Probation Officer.--This officer is appointed by the Juvenile Court
						Judge and is responsible to him and removable by him. He shall inquire into all charges
						against children and assist the judge in deciding what is best to do. He is a paid
						official. There are also volunteer probation officers who do not receive pay.
					Supreme Court Library.--This is a part of the Supreme Court and under
						its control. The judges elect the librarian who serves at their pleasure. This library
						is distinctly legal in character. Its use is therefore largely confined to the courts
						and attorneys.

					

					
						QUESTIONS

						What is the highest Court of Indiana?
						Should the judges be subject to party nomination?
						What is the difference between the Supreme and the Superior Courts?
						What are courts for?
						How are juvenile offenders tried?
					
				

				

				
					CHAPTER V
					LOCAL GOVERNMENT

					LOCAL officials represent the State in enforcing general or State
						laws, while, at the same time, they perform services for the people of the county or
						city in which they are located. The county and city officers are naturally in closer
						touch with the interests of the community in which they live and serve their
						constituents. They are servants of a twofold nature. One is no more important than the
						other. The "State of Indiana" is no more important than the "City of Indianapolis."
						Local self-government has always been the pride of the Anglo-Saxon race as it was of the
						ancient Greeks. The idea is by no means a modern one. Nor has it reached a very high
						state as yet. In spite of the fact that central and local government exist as separate
						units, they are so interwoven that distinction is not always clear nor well understood.
						The central administrative powers have comparatively little to do with local
						authorities. The local government conducts its own schools, has its courts under State
						laws, collects taxes, holds elections, cares for the unfortunate, maintains police and
						fire forces, in accordance, however, with the general laws of the State. Only under
						certain conditions may the Governor interfere with local affairs. One condition has
						already been pointed out (see military power of the Governor). Another is the filling of
						certain offices when a vacancy occurs, as judges of county courts. Such appointments
						hold good until the next local election. In general, the three divisions--legislative,
						executive, and judicial--are maintained in local government.
					

					
						COUNTY OFFICIALS--ELECTIVE

						County Commissioners.--There are three commissioners, property
							holders, elected in each county from three districts, serving three years. No more
							than two are elected at the same time. This Board of Commissioners has large powers,
							partly legislative, partly administrative, partly judicial. They must meet every month
							in the year. They have complete control over the property of the county. They
							construct and repair highways and bridges; they build homes for orphans and the poor;
							they allow claims; they fix the tax levy for the county; they may borrow money; they
							grant liquor licenses; they receive and audit the reports from county and township
							officers; they let contracts; they make reports of all the money received and
							expended; they fill vacancies in the county elective offices. This board by the law of
							1907 is the County Board of Finance. Their pay is determined by law, varying according
							to population.
						The County Council.--This body is a sort of check on the County
							Commissioners. From itemized estimates made by county and township officials, the
							appropriations are made by this council. These appropriations must not be exceeded.
							The County Auditor, as clerk of the council, presents these estimates with
							recommendations, if he desires. He may also call special meetings of the council in
							addition to the annual meeting. This body by a three-fourths vote may appropriate
							money not asked for in the estimates. It also has the power to expel any of its own
							members for misconduct. There are seven members of this council, four from districts
							and three at large. They serve for four years and are elected by popular vote. The
							salary is nominal and determined by the population, but does not exceed twenty dollars
							per annum. Vacancies are filled by the council itself. Only freeholders may serve.
							This body was established by law in 1899.
						Treasurer.--The County Treasurer is chosen for two years and may be
							re-elected. Only four years in six, however, are 
							permissible. He receives and disburses, on the Auditor's warrant, all public funds.
							His books show the various funds. He gives bond, but places the money in banks or
							trust companies designated by the County Board of Finance, the interest on which
							belongs to the public. He makes an annual report. The State's portion of the taxes is
							paid by him to the Treasurer of State. He may be removed by the County Commissioners.
							This officer collects delinquent taxes and has power to sell property to do this. He
							acts as City Treasurer in cities of the first, second, and third class. The salary
							received varies from $1,200 to $25,000 plus the amount of fees from delinquent taxes
							and other fees. However, he pays his subordinates from these funds.
						Auditor.--He serves four years and is eligible eight years in
							twelve. He settles the accounts against the county by warrants on the Treasurer. He is
							the County Accountant. The school fund is loaned and apportioned by him. The records
							of the County Commissioners are kept by him. The school enumeration is in his charge.
							He prepares an aggregate assessment of all property and calculates the amount
							belonging to State, county, township, school, etc. The salary varies from $1,100 to
							$17,500, according to population. This is increased by the receipt of fees. He pays
							his employees himself.
						Clerk.--The Clerk of the Circuit Court is also County Clerk. He may
							not serve more than twice in succession. The term is four years. He issues marriage
							licenses, administers oaths, and keeps a record of all insanity proceedings; issues
							licenses for the practice of medicine and dentistry, letters of administration, and
							keeps a full record of the actions of the court. The salary is fixed by law and varies
							from $1,200 to $19,500 plus certain fees, from all of which he must pay his
							assistants.
						Sheriff.--The County Sheriff must care for the jail and the
							prisoners; he must execute the decrees of the criminal, circuit, and superior courts;
							he must be present in person or by deputy at the sessions of these courts; he
							preserves order at the polls on election days and makes arrests with or without
							warrant if crime  is committed in his view. The Sheriff
							may call citizens to help him, and if he cannot keep the peace he may call upon the
							Governor. He appoints his deputies, including a jailer. One deputy is the matron of
							the jail if the population is over 50,000. This official is the leading executive of
							the county. The salary varies according to population.
						Recorder.--All public documents, deeds to property, leases,
							mortgages, articles of association and incorporation, liens, maps, and plats of the
							county and assignments are recorded and indexed by the County Recorder. They are open
							to the public. A fee is charged for the service under this officer. He is chosen for
							four years and may serve only eight years in twelve. He receives a salary in addition
							to the fees.
						Coroner.--The chief work of the Coroner is to find out the cause of
							the death of any person by violence or accident. He may summon witnesses and
							administer oaths. He has authority to act when the Sheriff is disabled. He renders his
							decisions in writing and may command the arrest of an accused party. His term of
							office is two years, without limit on the number of terms. As pay, he receives fees,
							except in Marion County where a salary is paid.
						Surveyor.--The County Surveyor serves two years and may be
							re-elected. He surveys lands, roads, and drains, and preserves the maps, charts, and
							books indicating his surveys. A private owner of real estate may request the survey of
							his land and the Surveyor must attend to this. He is paid a per diem fixed by law.
						Assessor.--The holder of this position must have been a free-holder
							in the county four years before election. Four years is the term of office with one
							re-election in a period of twelve years. He examines the assessment books of the
							township assessors and corrects their valuation if he sees fit. He also instructs
							these assessors. His pay varies according to the amount of work. The above described
							county offices are established by the Constitution of the State.
					

					

					
						COUNTY JUDICIARY

						As mentioned under the Judicial Department, these are as follows:
						Circuit Judges sitting in one or more counties forming a circuit
							with civil and criminal powers.
						Superior Court Judges with civil jurisdiction. These are chosen
							where the population is so large that the Circuit Judge cannot attend to the
							business.
						Criminal Court Judge with jurisdiction in criminal matters
							only.
						Probate Judge.The law of 1907 created a Probate Court in cities of
							100,000 population. The judge serves four years. The settlement of estates of minors,
							deceased persons, insolvents; partnerships, receiverships; suits by guardians,
							executors, trustees, and assignments comprise the business of the court.
						Prosecuting Attorney whose duty is to bring all violators before
							the courts and prosecute them.
					

					
						APPOINTIVE COUNTY OFFICIALS

						Superintendent of Schools.--This officer, chosen by the township
							trustees for four years, has supervision over all the schools of the county, except
							those in cities. He may be reappointed. The appointment has generally been for party
							reasons. He must have at least a thirty-six months' teacher's license. He grants
							licenses to teach, conducts teachers' examinations, visits the schools at least once a
							year, has charge of county institutes, and reports annually to the State
							Superintendent of Schools. He may revoke a license for cause. He also makes
							requisitions for the text-books used in the county and serves on the board which
							appoints the truancy officers. The salary varies from $1,200 to $1,408.50 with a small
							amount for travelling expenses.
						County Board of Education.--This is an ex-officio board consisting
							of the County Superintendent, Chairman, the township 
							trustees, and the Presidents of the School Boards of the towns and cities in the
							county. They meet twice a year and consider the general conditions of the school and
							school property.
						Truant Officer.--He is appointed by the above-named board. He must
							see that the provisions of the compulsory education law are enforced. He must give
							written notice to parents or guardians of a child's absence.
						County Board of Charities.--Six persons comprise this Board, one of
							whom is a woman. The Circuit Judge makes the appointments upon petition of fifteen
							citizens. There are three of each political party. No pay is received. They visit and
							inspect all the charitable and correctional institutions in the county every three
							months and make their report with suggestions to the Judge, the Board of State
							Charities, and the County Commissioners.
						Board of Children's Guardians.--This board consists of six members
							who are appointed in the same way as the above. They have charge of neglected children
							whom they may place in homes, or the county may have its own home for these children.
							The members serve without pay and report to the Board of State Charities.
						County Poor Farm.--The Superintendent of this is chosen by the
							County Commissioners, generally for political reasons. The counties are required to
							care for the poor. The Superintendent receives at the home or farm and cares for
							(giving them some work to do if they are able) all persons who become public charges.
							He reports to the County Commissioners the number of inmates, expenses for their care,
							and the amount of produce from the farm.
						County Physician.--He is employed by the County Commissioners to
							care for the sick in the County Home and the Jail.
						County Hospital for the Insane.--Marion County only has such a
							hospital which is under a Superintendent named by the County Commissioners.
						
						Board of Review or Board of Equalization is composed of two
							property holders, appointed by the Circuit Judge from separate political parties, and
							the County Auditor, Treasurer, and Assessor. They review the assessment of all
							property and equalize the taxation as nearly as possible. Citizens may appear before
							them with their complaints and petitions.
						Jury Commissioners.--These are of opposite political parties, two
							in number, and appointed by the Judge of the Circuit Court. From the tax duplicate of
							the county, these two select twice as many names as will be necessary for the grand
							and petit juries. They exclude the names of those who have been on a jury within a
							year, non-property holders, and those who are interested in any pending case. Before
							the case begins the clerk draws from the box the names of six persons who become the
							grand jury and of twelve who serve as a petit jury. The key to the box has been in the
							hands of the commissioner who differs from the clerk in politics. These commissioners
							are paid three dollars a day and jurymen two dollars with mileage.
						Grand Juries.--There are six members. They are under the control of
							the Judge. They examine the evidence brought against any one charged with crime and
							indict him. He is then subject to trial in court. The grand jury also visits the
							county institutions at stated intervals.
						Probate Commissioner.--If there are 10,000 voters in a county, the
							Circuit Judge may appoint such commissioner, who may settle estates, control
							guardianships, and have jurisdiction of the proof of wills. The Judge determines his
							salary.
						Master Commissioner.--The Circuit Judge appoints this officer
							whenever necessary, particularly to sell real estate under the orders of the
							court.
						County Attorney.--The county commissioners appoint a legal adviser
							for county officials. He serves a year at the pleasure of the commissioners. He
							defends the county in suits at law.
						Organization of Counties.--According to Article XV, section 7, of
							the Constitution, no county shall contain less than 
							
								
									EARLY FORMATION OF COUNTIES
									Note the position of Lake Michigan
							
							 four hundred square miles. The first counties were
							formed during territorial days, Knox being the first, in 1790. It covered more
							territory than the present State of Indiana. As population increased, new subdivisions
							were made. The boundaries were determined by the Legislature and new counties added
							until 1852, when the number reached ninety-two. Newton was the last addition in that
							year. The growth has been from the Ohio River northward.
					

					
						THE TOWNSHIP

						The congressional township, six miles square, is a part of the government survey, and
							was made to assist in the description of lands. The county commissioners divided the
							county into civil townships, which conform to the congressional as far as possible.
							The civil township is a political body with power to make contracts, hold elections,
							assess taxes, give relief to the poor, make roads, sue and be sued. There is a school
							township whose boundaries are the same as the civil township, but which is a separate
							corporation having charge of the schools and their property. Every sixteenth section
							in the congressional township was reserved for school purposes. There are 1,016 civil
							townships in the entire State. Each one has the following officers: Trustee, Assessor,
							Justice (or Justices) of the Peace, Constable, Supervisor of Roads, School Director,
							and Advisory Financial Board.
						Township Trustee.--He is the chief local official. His duties are
							various. He has charge of the finances, of poor relief, employs teachers, is an
							elector of the county superintendent of schools, has charge of the roads and drains,
							levies taxes, audits the township accounts, is inspector of elections and makes an
							enumeration of all male citizens over twenty-one years of age. He is elected for four
							years but cannot succeed himself.
						The Advisory Board.-This board is to the township what the county
							council is to the county. The estimate of expenses made by the trustee is submitted to
							this board which may curtail  it if it seems fit. The
							board fixes the tax rate. It may borrow money also. There are three members, chosen
							for four years.
						Assessor.--The Assessor is elected for four years and may not
							succeed himself. He assesses personal and real property (the latter every four years),
							and returns his lists to the auditor. His pay varies according to population.
						Justices of the Peace.--They form the court of the township. The
							county commissioners decide upon the number, but not to exceed three, in each
							township. They have jurisdiction in minor cases, both civil and criminal. Appeal,
							however, may be taken to the county court. They issue warrants in criminal cases,
							perform marriages, and preside in insanity trials. Their term of office is four years
							and their pay comes from fees.
						Constables.--This office, like that of Justice, is an old one in
							the Anglo-Saxon race. Each justice has a constable. They execute the orders of the
							justice's court, keep the peace and may make arrests. The justices appoint them.
						Road Supervisor.--Two years is the term of this officer who is
							chosen by the electors in the road district. He has charge of highways and bridges and
							may call upon citizens, between twenty-one and fifty, for their service for two to
							four days in a year.
					

					
						CITY AND TOWN GOVERNMENT

						Local government is still further narrowed beyond that of the county and township.
							The General Assembly has granted the right of government therefore to towns and cities
							or municipalities. The "village" as a political organization does not exist in
							Indiana. When a community of citizens so desire, they may secure the right of
							incorporation from the legislature and become a town. A minimum of population is
							necessary, however, to become a city--namely, 2,000. The laws defining these matters
							are general and thus apply to all towns and cities alike. Cities were divided into
							five classes by a law passed in 1905.  This law covers
							other matters also, such as the qualification of officers and the general functions of
							city government. The classes of cities are as follows: First, 100,000 population or
							more; second, 45,000 to 100,000; third, 20,000 to 45,000; fourth, 10,000 to 20,000,
							and taxable property to the amount of $5,000,000 or over; fifth, less than 10,000.
						The Town.--If one-third of the voters of a settlement petition the
							county commissioners for a town government, the commissioners order an election to
							determine whether the citizens want to form a town. If a majority so vote, the
							incorporation is authorized.
						The town is then divided into districts--not more than seven--and officers are
							elected. A trustee is chosen by the whole community for each district or ward. These
							trustees serve four years and are the legislative department of the town, passing all
							the ordinances to govern the town. These ordinances may be on the following subjects
							in general: The improvement of streets and sewers; the building of school houses; fire
							apparatus; street lighting; public health; prevention of vice and keeping peace and
							order by policing the town. The trustees fix the tax levy and elect the school
							trustees--three in number--who serve three years. The voters select also a town clerk,
							treasurer, and marshal. Their duties are such as are implied by the title of the
							office, namely, the clerk keeps the records of the trustees and all papers and books
							of the corporation; the treasurer keeps the funds which he pays out only on a warrant
							signed by the president of the trustees and the town clerk; the marshal is the town
							policeman or constable. If the voters do not wish to keep up a town government, they
							may abolish it by a two-thirds vote of all the voters of the town.
					

					
						THE CITY

						The city, like the State, has the three departments--Legislative, Executive, and
							Judicial--though not so sharply defined perhaps. In the city the legislative is the
							council; in the State, the General  Assembly; the
							executive is the Mayor, corresponding to the Governor; the judicial is the city court,
							corresponding to the courts of the State. The electors of a city choose the Mayor,
							City Judge, Treasurer, Clerk, and the City Council.
					

					
						ELECTIVE--EXECUTIVE

						The Mayor.--The Mayor is chosen for four years. Like the Governor,
							he enforces the laws of the city (primarily) and the State. He appoints the heads of
							departments; recommends measures to the city council; he vetoes or approves all acts
							of the council, calls special meetings of the council, holds consultations with heads
							of departments, and informs the council yearly of the condition of the city. In cities
							of the fifth class the Mayor is the City Judge.
						Clerk.--The City Clerk keeps the proceedings of the council. All
							papers, documents, and records of the city are in his charge.
						Treasurer.--The County Treasurer in cities of the first, second,
							and third classes is also city treasurer. All money is collected in the office of the
							Treasurer. He has charge of these collections and pays out the funds on the
							presentation of properly signed warrants.
						City Judge.--This official forms the judicial department of the
							city. His term of office is four years. He may assess fines up to $500, administer
							oaths, and imprison offenders for a period of six months or less. His jurisdiction
							extends over violation of city ordinances, petit larceny, and minor misdemeanors.
							Police officers execute the orders of this court.
						City Council.--The Common Council is the legislative department of
							the city. Each ward has a councilman and, in addition, there are from two to six
							councilmen at large, all chosen by the people to serve four years. The Mayor presides
							over the sessions, except in cities of the first and second classes, in which the
							Council selects one of its own members as presiding officer.  Indianapolis has nine councilmen, voted for at large. Monthly meetings are
							required. Special meetings may be called by the Mayor. A majority of all is necessary
							to pass a city ordinance. The council passes appropriation acts, regulates traffic,
							fixes salaries, protects the city by fire and police regulations, grants licenses, and
							regulates and taxes all the business of the city. It selects the School Trustees
							except in the larger cities. The salary is small.
						The School Board.--This body is appointed by the council in most of
							the cities. There are three members, serving three years, one retiring each year. In
							cities of the first and second classes there are five members elected by the people
							for four years. They are nominated by petition. The schools and school property are
							entirely under their charge. They select teachers, fix salaries, and select the city
							librarian in cities where there is not a library board. They do not receive any
							pay.
					

					
						APPOINTIVE ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS

						Board of Public Works.--Three members are appointed on this board
							by the Mayor--no more than two of the same political party. They have charge of the
							streets, buildings, and sewers. They make contracts on behalf of the city with gas,
							electric, heating, water, and street-car companies--subject to approval by the
							Council. The city engineer and street commissioner, who are appointed by the Mayor,
							are subject to the directions of the Board of Public Works.
						Board of Public Safety.--The general public welfare and protection
							are in charge of a board of three, appointed by the Mayor under the same condition as
							the above-mentioned board. The police and fire departments and building inspection are
							supervised from this office. The chief of police and head of the fire department,
							market master, and building inspector are appointed by this board. In cities of the
							fifth class, police and fire department chiefs are named by the Mayor.
						
						Board of Health.--Three physicians named by the Mayor determine all
							questions relating to the public health and charities. The Superintendent of the City
							Hospital holds his position by their appointment. The hospital, dispensary,
							quarantines, vital statistics, and health ordinances are all under their supervision
							and management.
						Board of Park Commissioners.--These commissioners are four in
							number, receiving their appointment from the Mayor and serving without pay. They plan
							and develop and care for the parks and parkways. They may choose a superintendent with
							assistants.
						Controller.--He is appointed by the Mayor and is the auditor, so to
							speak, of the city finances. Warrants on the treasurer are issued by him. Licenses,
							too, are under his control.
						City Attorney.--All legal affairs of the city are subject to his
							control. He advises the city officials as to the legality of their measures. In
							Indianapolis there is a corporation counsel also. This is by recent enactment of the
							Legislature.
						Superintendent of City Schools.--The schools of the city are under
							the supervision of the Superintendent chosen by the school board.
						City Librarian.--The library board appoints the head of the city
							library. In some cities this board is also the School Board, as in Indianapolis. In
							others there is a distinct library board of seven members, three of whom are appointed
							by the Circuit Judge, two by the council, and two by the School Board.
						Taxation and Revenue.--The revenues of the State, county, city,
							town, and township, in general, come from taxes assessed and collected on real estate
							and personal property. Each division of the government assesses and receives its
							portion according to law. There are fees of different kinds also and assessments on
							the property holders for the payment of street and sewer improvements. The State
							government receives certain portions of joint stock association taxes which the Board
							of  Tax Commissioners assesses. There are corporations
							whose property is taxed--railways, telegraph and telephone companies, traction lines,
							banks, gas companies, etc., etc.
						School Revenues.--The permanent school fund consists of two
							parts--the congressional township fund and the common school fund. The former came
							from the sale of the lands according to the law of congress; the latter is made up of
							all money devoted to school purposes. These funds are loaned by the auditors. They may
							not be decreased. The school trustees and boards fix the school tax assessments. The
							schools have also the liquor licenses, the dog tax, and certain local tuition fees.
							The auditors report the amount of tuition to the State Superintendent who apportions
							it to the counties on the basis of school population. On the same principle the
							auditor apportions to the schools of the county the share of revenue coming to the
							county.
						Nominations for Public Office.--Up to recent years the common
							method of nominating candidates has been by party conventions made up of delegates
							chosen by the members of the party. This has been the case in all the political
							divisions of the State. It is still the custom in nominating State and congressional
							candidates. There has been much dissatisfaction, however, because the delegates have
							really been named by the party committeemen and not by the members of the party at
							large. These party committeemen may now be chosen by a primary law according to which
							the persons affiliating with a given party may vote for precinct committeemen under
							certain regulations laid down by the law.
						If a county has a city with a population of 36,000 or more the candidates for county,
							city, township, judicial, and legislative positions must be voted for under the
							primary law. All the voters who are members of a party which cast ten per cent of the
							whole vote at the last preceding election, may register their wishes as to the
							candidates in the same way as they do in electing a candidate to the office. The
							candidates file their names with  the primary
							commissioners. Twenty-five voters of a party may petition the commissioners to have
							the name of a member of their party placed on the primary ballot. These primary
							commissioners are the clerk of the county and two citizens of opposite political
							parties named by him. When the name has been so filed it is placed on the ballot and
							the voters of the party have the right to express their judgment whether the candidate
							shall be named or not. The ballot must be secret. This system is not yet as general as
							in some other States.
					

					
						QUESTIONS

						What is local government?
						Does the State Government have any control over the local?
						Is it right that it should have?
						Is there a county legislative body?
						To whom are the County Commissioners responsible?
						What are the qualifications for County Commissioners?
						Does the County Treasurer receive the interest on public funds when deposited in
							bank?
						What are the duties of the Coroner?
						Who pays the county officers?
						Are there any officers who serve without pay? Do you know whether any local officers
							in England serve without salary?
						What officer in the township has the most important position?
						May he succeed himself? Why should he not?
						How many counties are there in Indiana? Where did the making of counties begin? Why?
							Why do we use the word "county"?
						Is the County Council a legislative body?
						What is a municipality?
						Who is the head of the City? To what State officer does he correspond?
						What qualifications do we fix for the mayoralty?
						What is the legislative body of a city?
						Name three departments of city government.
						Are there any qualifications for membership in the Council?
					

					

					
				
			
		
		

			

				APPENDIX A
				LIST OF GOVERNORS

				
					NORTHWEST TERRITORY

					
						
						From
						To
					

					
						Arthur St. Clair
						1787
						1800
					
				

				
					INDIANA TERRITORY

					
						
						From
						To
					

					
						John Gibson (acting)
						1800
						Jan. 10, 1801
					

					
						William H. Harrison
						1801
						1812
					

					
						John Gibson (acting)
						Sept. 1812
						May, 1813
					

					
						Thomas Posey
						1813
						1816
					
				

				
					STATE OF INDIANA

					
						
						From
						To
					

					
						Jonathan Jennings
						1816
						1822
					

					
						Ratliffe Boone (acting)
						Sept. 12-Dec. 5,
						1822
					

					
						William Hendricks
						1822
						1825
					

					
						James B. Ray (acting)
						Feb. 12-Dec. 11,
						1825
					

					
						James B. Ray
						1825
						1831
					

					
						Noah Noble
						1831
						1837
					

					
						David Wallace
						1837
						1840
					

					
						Samuel Bigger
						1840
						1843
					

					
						James Whitcomb
						1843
						1848
					

					
						Paris C. Dunning (acting)
						1848
						1849
					

					
						Joseph A. Wright
						1849
						1857
					

					
						Ashbel P. Willard
						1857
						1860
					

					
						Abram A. Hammond (acting)
						1860
						1861
					

					
						Henry S. Lane
						Jan. 14-Jan. 16,
						1861
					

					
						Oliver P. Morton (acting)
						1861
						1865
					

					
						Oliver P. Morton
						1865
						1867
					

					
						Conrad Baker (acting)
						1867
						1869
					

					
						Conrad Baker
						1869
						1873
					

					
						Thomas A. Hendricks
						1873
						1877
					

					
						James D. Williams
						1877
						1880
					

					
						Isaac P. Gray (acting)
						1880
						1881
					

					
						Albert G. Porter
						1881
						1885
					

					

					
						Isaac P. Gray
						1885
						1889
					

					
						Alvin P. Hovey
						1889
						1891
					

					
						Ira J. Chase (acting)
						1891 Nov. 1 to Jan. 9,
						1893
					

					
						Claude Matthews
						1893
						1897
					

					
						James A. Mount
						1897
						1901
					

					
						Winfield T. Durbin
						1901
						1905
					

					
						J. Frank Hanly
						1905
						1909
					

					
						Thomas R. Marshall
						1909
					
				
			

			

			

				APPENDIX B

				THE ORDINANCE OF 1787
				
					In Congress, July 13, 1787
				AN ORDINANCE FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE TERRITORY OF THE UNITED STATES
					NORTH-WEST OF THE RIVER OHIO

				After providing for the temporary government of such territory as one district, with the
					Governor, Legislative Council and House of Representatives of five members each, Secretary
					and Judges, all appointed by Congress, the ordinance proceeds as follows:
				And for extending the fundamental principles of civil and religious liberty, which form
					the basis whereon these republics, their laws and Constitutions, are erected; to fix and
					establish those principles as the basis of all laws, Constitutions, and governments which
					forever here-after shall be formed in the said territory; to provide, also, for the
					establishment of States, and permanent government therein, and for their admission to
					share in the Federal councils on an equal footing with the original States, at as early
					periods as may be consistent with the general interest:
				It is hereby ordained and declared, by the authority aforesaid: That the following
					articles shall be considered as articles of compact between the original States and the
					people and States in the said territory, and forever remain unalterable, unless by common
					consent, to wit:
				ART. 1. No person, demeaning himself in a peaceable and orderly
					manner, shall ever be molested on account of his mode of worship or religious sentiments,
					in the said territory.
				ART. 2. The inhabitants of the said territory shall always be entitled
					to the benefits of the writ of habeas corpus, and of the trial by jury; of a proportionate
					representation of the people in the legislature, and of judicial proceedings according to
					the course of the common law. All persons shall be bailable, unless for capital offences,
					where the proof shall be evident, or the presumption great. All fines shall be moderate;
					and no cruel or unusual punishments shall be inflicted. No man shall be deprived of his
					liberty or property but by the judgment of his peers, or the law of the land, and should
					the public exigencies make it necessary, for the common preservation, to take any man's
					property, or to  demand his particular services, full
					compensation shall be made for the same. And, in the just preservation of rights and
					property, it is understood and declared that no law ought ever to be made, or have force
					in the said territory, that shall, in any manner whatever, interfere with, or affect,
					private contracts or engagements, bona fide, and without fraud, previously formed.
				ART. 3. Religion, morality, and knowledge, being necessary to good
					government and the happiness of mankind, schools and the means of education, shall forever
					be encouraged. The utmost good faith shall always be observed toward the Indians; their
					lands and property shall never be taken from them without their consent, and in their
					property, rights, and liberty they never shall be invaded or disturbed unless in just and
					lawful wars authorized by Congress; but laws founded in justice and humanity shall from
					time to time be made, for preventing wrongs being done to them, and for preserving peace
					and friendship with them.
				ART. 4. That said territory, and the States which may be formed
					therein, shall forever remain a part of this confederacy of the United States of America,
					subject to the articles of confederation, and to such alterations therein as may be
					constitutionally made; and to all the acts and ordinances of the United States in Congress
					assembled, conformable thereto. The inhabitants and settlers in the said territory shall
					be subject to pay a part of the Federal debts, contracted or to be contracted, and a
					proportional part of the expenses of government, to be apportioned on them by Congress,
					according to the same common rule and measure by which apportionments thereof shall be
					made on the other States; and the taxes for paying their proportion shall be laid and
					levied by the authority and direction of the legislature of the district or districts, or
					new States, as in the original States, within the time agreed upon by the United States in
					Congress assembled. The legislatures of those districts, or new States, shall never
					interfere with the primary disposal of the soil of the United States in Congress
					assembled, nor with any regulations Congress may find necessary, for securing the title in
					such soil, to the bona fide purchasers. No tax shall be imposed on lands the property of
					the United States; and in no case shall non-resident proprietors be taxed higher than
					residents. The navigable waters leading into the Mississippi or St. Lawrence, and the
					carrying-places between the same, shall be common highways, and forever free, as well to
					the inhabitants of the said territory as to the citizens of the United States, and those
					of any other States that may be admitted into the confederacy without any tax, impost, or
					duty therefor.
				
				ART. 5. There shall be formed in the said territory, not less than
					three nor more than five States; and the boundaries of the States, as soon as Virginia
					shall alter her act of cession, and consent to the same, shall become fixed, and
					established as follows, to wit: The Western State in the said territory shall be bounded
					by the Mississippi, the Ohio, and Wabash Rivers; a direct line drawn from the Wabash and
					Post Vincents, due north, to the territorial line between the United States and Canada;
					and by the said territorial line to the Lake of the Woods and Mississippi. The Middle
					State shall be bounded by the said direct line, the Wabash, from Post Vincents to the Ohio
					by the Ohio, by a direct line drawn due north from the mouth of the Great Miami to the
					said territorial line. The Eastern State shall be bounded by the last-mentioned direct
					line, the Ohio, Pennsylvania, and the said territorial line; provided, however, and it is
					further understood and declared, that the boundaries of these three States shall be
					subject so far to be altered, that, if Congress shall hereafter find it expedient, they
					shall have authority to form one or two States in that part of said territory which lies
					north of an east and west line drawn through the southerly bend or extreme of Lake
					Michigan. And whenever any of the said States shall have sixty thousand free inhabitants
					therein, such State shall be admitted, by its delegates, into the Congress of the United
					States on an equal footing with the original States, in all respects whatever; and shall
					be at liberty to form a permanent Constitution and State government; provided the
					Constitution and government, so to be formed, shall be republican, and in conformity to
					the principles contained in these articles; and, so far as it can be consistent with the
					general interest of the confederacy, such admission shall be allowed at an earlier period,
					and when there may be a less number of free inhabitants in the State than sixty
					thousand.
				ART. 6. There shall be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude in
					said territory, otherwise than in the punishment of crimes, whereof the party shall have
					been duly convicted; provided always, that any person escaping into the same, from whom
					labor or service is lawfully claimed in any one of the original States, such fugitive may
					be lawfully reclaimed, and conveyed to the person claiming his or her labor or service as
					aforesaid.
			

			

			

				APPENDIX C

				CONSTITUTION OF THE STATE OF INDIANA
				

				PREAMBLE
				To the end that justice be established, public order maintained, and liberty perpetuated:
					We, the people of the State of Indiana, grateful to Almighty God for the free exercise of
					the right to choose our own form of government, do ordain this Constitution:

				
					ARTICLE I
					BILL OF RIGHTS

					SECTION 1. We declare that all men are created equal; that they are
						endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights; that among these are life,
						liberty, and the pursuit of happiness; that all power is inherent in the people; and
						that all free governments are, and of right ought to be, founded on their authority, and
						instituted for their peace, safety, and well-being. For the advancement of these ends,
						the people have at all times an indefeasible right to alter and reform their
						government.
					SEC. 2. All men shall be secured in their natural right to worship
						Almighty God according to the dictates of their own consciences.
					SEC. 3. No law shall, in any case whatever, control the free
						exercise and enjoyment of religious opinions, or interfere with the rights of
						conscience.
					SEC. 4. No preference shall be given by law to any creed, religious
						society or mode of worship; and no man shall be compelled to attend, erect or support
						any place of worship, or to maintain any ministry against his consent.
					SEC. 5. No religious test shall be required as a qualification for
						any office of trust or profit.
					SEC. 6. No money shall be drawn from the treasury for the benefit of
						any religious or theological institution.
					SEC. 7. No person shall be rendered incompetent as a witness in
						consequence of his opinions on matters of religion.
					
					SEC. 8. The mode of administering an oath or affirmation shall be
						such as may be most consistent with, and binding upon, the conscience of the person to
						whom such oath or affirmation may be administered.
					SEC. 9. No law shall be passed restraining the free interchange of
						thought and opinion, or restricting the right to speak, write, or print, freely, on any
						subject whatever; but for the abuse of that right every person shall be responsible.
					SEC. 10. In all prosecutions for libel, the truth of the matters
						alleged to be libelous may be given in justification.
					SEC. 11. The right of the people to be secure in their persons,
						houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable search or seizure shall not be
						violated, and no warrant shall issue but upon probable cause, supported by oath or
						affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched, and the person or
						thing to be seized.
					SEC. 12. All courts shall be open; and every man, for injury done to
						him, in his person, property, or reputation, shall have remedy by due course of law.
						Justice shall be administered freely and without purchase; completely, and without
						denial; speedily, and without delay.
					SEC. 13. In all criminal prosecutions the accused shall have the
						right to a public trial, by an impartial jury in the county in which the offense shall
						have been committed; to be heard by himself and counsel; to demand the nature and cause
						of the accusation against him, and to have a copy thereof; to meet the witnesses face to
						face, and to have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor.
					SEC. 14. No person shall be put in jeopardy twice for the same
						offense. No person, in any criminal prosecution, shall be compelled to testify against
						himself.
					SEC. 15. No person arrested, or confined in jail, shall be treated
						with unnecessary rigor.
					SEC. 16. Excessive bail shall not be required. Excessive fines shall
						not be imposed. Cruel and unusual punishment shall not be inflicted. All penalties shall
						be proportioned to the nature of the offense.
					SEC. 17. Offenses, other than murder, or treason, shall be bailable
						by sufficient sureties. Murder or treason shall not be bailable when the proof is
						evident or the presumption strong.
					SEC. 18. The penal code shall be founded on the principles of
						reformation, and not of vindictive justice.
					SEC. 19. In all criminal cases whatever the jury shall have the
						right to determine the law and the facts.
					SEC. 20. In all civil cases the right of trial by jury shall remain
						inviolate.
					SEC. 21. No man's particular services shall be demanded without  just compensation. No man's property shall be taken by law
						without just compensation; nor, except in case of the State, without such compensation
						first assessed and tendered.
					SEC. 22. The privilege of the debtor to enjoy the necessary comforts
						of life shall be recognized by wholesome laws, exempting a reasonable amount of property
						from seizure or sale for the payment of any debt or liability hereafter contracted; and
						there shall be no imprisonment for debt, except in case of fraud.
					SEC. 23. The General Assembly shall not grant to any citizen, or
						class of citizens, privileges or immunities which, upon the same terms, shall not
						equally belong to all citizens.
					SEC. 24. No ex post facto law, or law impairing
						the obligation of contract, shall ever be passed.
					SEC. 25. No law shall be passed, the taking effect of which shall be
						made to depend upon any authority, except as provided in this Constitution.
					SEC. 26. The operation of the laws shall never be suspended except
						by the authority of the General Assembly.
					SEC. 27. The privilege of the writ of habeas
							corpus shall not be suspended, except in case of rebellion or invasion, and then
						only if the public safety demand it.
					SEC. 28. Treason against the State shall consist only in levying war
						against it, and giving aid and comfort to its enemies.
					SEC. 29. No person shall be convicted of treason except on the
						testimony of two witnesses to the same overt act, or upon his confession in open
						court.
					SEC. 30. No conviction shall work corruption of blood or forfeiture
						of estate.
					SEC. 31. No law shall restrain any of the inhabitants of the State
						from assembling together, in a peaceable manner, to consult for their common good; nor
						from instructing their representatives; nor from applying to the General Assembly for
						redress of grievances.
					SEC. 32. The people shall have a right to bear arms for the defense
						of themselves and the State.
					SEC. 33. The military shall be kept in strict subordination to the
						civil power.
					SEC. 34. No soldier shall, in time of peace, be quartered in any
						house without the consent of the owner; nor in time of war but in a manner to be
						prescribed by law.
					SEC. 35. The General Assembly shall not grant any title of nobility,
						nor confer hereditary distinctions.
					SEC. 36. Emigration from the State shall not be prohibited.
					
					SEC. 37. There shall be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude
						within the State, otherwise than for the punishment of crime, whereof the party shall
						have been duly convicted. No indenture of any negro or mulatto, made or executed out of
						the bounds of the State, shall be valid within the State.
				

				
					ARTICLE II
					SUFFRAGE AND ELECTION

					SECTION 1. All elections shall be free and equal.
					SEC. 2. In all elections not otherwise provided for by this
						Constitution, every male citizen of the United States, of the age of twenty-one years
						and upwards, who shall have resided in the State during the six months, and in the
						township sixty days, and in the ward or precinct thirty days, immediately preceding such
						election; and every male of foreign birth, of the age of twenty-one years and upwards,
						who shall have resided in the United States one year, and shall have resided in this
						State during the six months, and in the township sixty days, and in the ward or precinct
						thirty days, immediately preceding such election, and shall have declared his intention
						to become a citizen of the United States, conformably to the laws of the United States
						on the subject of naturalization, shall be entitled to vote in the township or precinct
						where he may reside, if he shall have been duly registered according to law.
					SEC. 3. No soldier, seaman or marine, in the army or navy of the
						United States, or their allies, shall be deemed to have acquired a residence in this
						State in consequence of having been stationed within the same; nor shall any such
						soldier, seaman or marine, have the right to vote.
					SEC. 4. No person shall be deemed to have lost his residence in the
						State by reason of his absence either on business of the State or of the United
						States.
					SEC. 5. [Stricken out by constitutional amendment of March 24,
						1881.]
					SEC. 6. Every person shall be disqualified from holding office
						during the term for which he may have been elected, who shall have given or offered a
						bribe, threat, or reward to procure his election.
					SEC. 7. Every person who shall give or accept a challenge to fight a
						duel, or who shall knowingly carry to another person such challenge, or who shall agree
						to go out of the State to fight a duel, shall be ineligible to any office of trust or
						profit.
					SEC. 8. The General Assembly shall have power to deprive of the  right of suffrage, and to render ineligible any person
						convicted of an infamous crime.
					SEC. 9. No person holding a lucrative office or appointment, under
						the United States, or under this State, shall be eligible to a seat in the General
						Assembly; nor shall any person hold more than one lucrative office at the same time,
						except as in this Constitution expressly permitted: Provided, That
						offices in the militia, to which there is attached no annual salary, and the office of
						Deputy Postmaster, where the compensation does not exceed ninety dollars per annum,
						shall not be deemed lucrative. And provided, also, That counties
						containing less than one thousand polls may confer the office of Clerk, Recorder, and
						Auditor, or any two of said offices, upon the same person.
					SEC. 10. No person who may hereafter be a collector or holder of
						public moneys, shall be eligible to any office of trust or profit until he shall have
						accounted for and paid over, according to law, all sums for which he may be liable.
					SEC. 11. In all cases in which it is provided that an office shall
						not be filled by the same person more than a certain number of years continuously, an
						appointment pro tempore shall not be reckoned a part of that term.
					SEC. 12. In all cases, except treason, felony and breach of the
						peace, electors shall be free from arrest in going to elections, during their attendance
						there, and in returning from the same.
					SEC. 13. All elections by the people shall be by ballot; and all
						elections by the General Assembly, or by either branch thereof, shall be viva voce.
					SEC. 14. All general elections shall be held on the first Tuesday
						after the first Monday in November; but township elections may be held at such time as
						may be provided by law: Provided, That the General Assembly may
						provide by law for the election of all judges of courts of general or appellate
						jurisdiction, by an election to be held for such officers only, at which time no other
						officer shall be voted for; and shall also provide for the registration of all persons
						entitled to vote.
				

				
					ARTICLE III
					DISTRIBUTION OF POWERS

					SECTION 1. The powers of the Government are divided into three
						separate departments: the Legislative, the Executive (including the Administrative) and
						the Judicial; and no person charged with official duties under one of these departments
						shall exercise any of the functions of another except as in this Constitution expressly
						provided.
				

				
				
					ARTICLE IV
					LEGISLATIVE

					SECTION 1. The legislative authority of the State shall be vested in
						a General Assembly, which shall consist of a Senate and House of Representatives. The
						style of every law shall be: "Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
							Indiana," and no law shall be enacted except by bill.
					SEC. 2. The Senate shall not exceed fifty, nor the House of
						Representatives one hundred members, and they shall be chosen by the electors of the
						respective counties or districts into which the State may, from time to time, be
						divided.
					SEC. 3. Senators shall be elected for the term of four years, and
						Representatives for the term of two years, from the day next after their general
						election: Provided, however, That the Senators-elect, at the second
						meeting of the General Assembly under this Constitution, shall be divided, by lot, into
						two equal classes, as nearly as may be; and the seats of Senators of the first class
						shall be vacated at the expiration of two years, and those of the second class at the
						expiration of four years; so that one-half, as nearly as possible, shall be chosen
						biennially forever thereafter. And in case of increase in the number of Senators, they
						shall be so annexed by lot to the one or the other of the two classes as to keep them as
						nearly equal as practicable.
					SEC. 4. The General Assembly shall, at its second session after the
						adoption of this Constitution, and every sixth year thereafter, cause an enumeration to
						be made of all the male inhabitants over the age of twenty-one years.
					SEC. 5. The number of Senators and Representatives shall, at the
						session next following each period of making such enumeration, be fixed by law and
						apportioned among the several counties, according to the number of male inhabitants
						above twenty-one years of age in each: Provided, That the first and
						second elections of members of the General Assembly, under this Constitution, shall be
						according to the apportionment last made by the General Assembly before the adoption of
						this Constitution.
					SEC. 6. A Senatorial or Representative District, where more than one
						county shall constitute a district, shall be composed of contiguous counties, and no
						county, for Senatorial apportionment, shall ever be divided.
					SEC. 7. No person shall be a Senator or Representative, who, at the
						time of his election is not a citizen of the United States; nor any one  who has not been, for two years next preceding his election,
						an inhabitant of this State, and for one year next preceding his election, an inhabitant
						of the county or district whence he may be chosen. Senators shall be at least
						twenty-five and Representatives at least twenty-one years of age.
					SEC. 8. Senators and Representatives, in all cases except treason,
						felony, and breach of the peace, shall be privileged from arrest during the session of
						the General Assembly, and in going to and returning from the same, and shall not be
						subject to any civil process during the session of the General Assembly, nor during the
						fifteen days next before the commencement thereof. For any speech or debate in either
						House, a member shall not be questioned in any other place.
					SEC. 9. The sessions of the General Assembly shall be held
						biennially at the capital of the State, commencing on the Thursday next after the first
						Monday of January, in the year one thousand eight hundred and fifty-three, and on the
						same day of every second year thereafter, unless a different day or place shall have
						been appointed by law. But if, in the opinion of the Governor, the public welfare shall
						require it, he may, at any time, by proclamation, call a special session.
					SEC. 10. Each House, when assembled, shall choose its own officers
						(the President of the Senate excepted), judge the elections, qualifications and returns
						of its own members, determine its rules of proceeding, and sit upon its own adjournment.
						But neither House shall, without the consent of the other, adjourn for more than three
						days, nor to any place other than that in which it may be sitting.
					SEC. 11. Two-thirds of each House shall constitute a quorum to do
						business; but a smaller number may meet, adjourn from day to day, and compel the
						attendance of absent members. A quorum being in attendance, if either House fail to
						effect an organization within the first five days thereafter, the members of the House
						so failing shall be entitled to no compensation from the end of the said five days until
						an organization shall have been effected.
					SEC. 12. Each House shall keep a journal of its proceedings, and
						publish the same. The yeas and nays, on any question, shall, at the request of any two
						members, be entered, together with the names of the members demanding the same, on the
						journal: Provided, That on a motion to adjourn it shall require
						one-tenth of the members present to order the yeas and nays.
					SEC. 13. The doors of each House, and of Committees of the Whole,
						shall be kept open, except in such cases as, in the opinion of either House, may require
						secrecy.
					
					SEC. 14. Either House may punish its members for disorderly
						behavior, and may, with the concurrence of two-thirds, expel a member; but not a second
						time for the same cause.
					SEC. 15. Either House during its session, may punish, by
						imprisonment, any person not a member who shall have been guilty of disrespect to the
						House, by disorderly or contemptuous behavior, in its presence; but such imprisonment
						shall not, at any time, exceed twenty-four hours.
					SEC. 16. Each House shall have all powers necessary for a branch of
						the legislative department of a free and independent State.
					SEC. 17. Bills may originate in either House, but may be amended or
						rejected in the other, except that bills for raising revenue shall originate in the
						House of Representatives.
					SEC. 18. Every bill shall be read by sections, on three several days
						in each House; unless, in case of emergency, two-thirds of the House where such bill may
						be depending shall, by a vote of yeas and nays, deem it expedient to dispense with this
						rule; but the reading of a bill by sections, on its final passage, shall in no case be
						dispensed with; and the vote on the passage of every bill or joint resolution shall be
						taken by yeas and nays.
					SEC. 19. Every act shall embrace but one subject, and matters
						properly connected therewith; which subject shall be expressed in the title. But if any
						subject shall be embraced in an act, which shall not be expressed in the title, such act
						shall be void only as to so much thereof as shall not be expressed in the title.
					SEC. 20. Every act and joint resolution shall be plainly worded,
						avoiding, as far as practicable, the use of technical terms.
					SEC. 21. No act shall ever be revised or amended by mere reference
						to its title; but the act revised, or section amended, shall be set forth and published
						at full length.
					SEC. 22. The General Assembly shall not pass local or special laws
						in any of the following enumerated cases, that is to say:
					Regulating the jurisdiction and duties of Justices of the Peace and of Constables;
					For the punishment of crimes and misdemeanors;
					Regulating the practice in courts of justice;
					Providing for changing the venue in civil and criminal cases;
					Granting divorces;
					Changing the names of persons;
					For laying out, opening and working on highways, and for the election or appointment of
						Supervisors;
					Vacating roads, town plats, streets, alleys and public squares;
					
					Summoning and empanelling grand and petit jurors, and providing for their
						compensation;
					Regulating county and township business;
					Regulating the election of county and township officers and their compensations;
					For the assessment and collection of taxes for State, county, township or road
						purposes;
					Providing for supporting common schools, and for the preservation of school funds.
					In relation to fees or salaries: except that the laws may be so made as to grade the
						compensation of officers in proportion to the population and the necessary services
						required;
					In relation to interest on money;
					Providing for opening and conducting elections of State, county or township officers,
						and designating the places of voting;
					Providing for the sale of real estate belonging to minors, or other persons laboring
						under legal disabilities, by executors, administrators, guardians or trustees.
					SEC. 23. In all the cases enumerated in the preceding section, and
						in all other cases where a general law can be made applicable, all laws shall be general
						and of uniform operation throughout the State.
					SEC. 24. Provisions may be made by general law for bringing suits
						against the State, as to all liabilities originating after the adoption of this
						Constitution; but no special act authorizing such suit to be brought, or making
						compensation to any person claiming damages against the State, shall ever be passed.
					SEC. 25. A majority of all the members elected to each House shall
						be necessary to pass every bill or joint resolution; and all bills and joint resolutions
						so passed shall be signed by the presiding officers of the respective Houses.
					SEC. 26. Any member of either House shall have the right to protest,
						and to have his protest, with his reasons for dissent, entered on the journal.
					SEC. 27. Every statute shall be a public law, unless otherwise
						declared in the statute itself.
					SEC. 28. No act shall take effect until the same shall have been
						published and circulated in the several counties of this State by authority, except in
						case of emergency; which emergency shall be declared in the preamble or in the body of
						the law.
					SEC. 29. The members of the General Assembly shall receive for their
						services a compensation, to be fixed by law; but no increase of compensation shall take
						effect during the session at which such increase  may be
						made. No session of the General Assembly, except the first under this Constitution,
						shall extend beyond the term of sixty-one days, nor any special session beyond the term
						of forty days.
					SEC. 30. No Senator or Representative shall, during the term for
						which he may have been elected, be eligible to any office, the election to which is
						vested in the General Assembly, nor shall he be appointed to any civil office of profit,
						which shall have been created, or the emoluments of which shall have been increased,
						during such term; but this latter provision shall not be construed to apply to any
						office elective by the people.
				

				
					ARTICLE V
					EXECUTIVE

					SECTION 1. The executive powers of the State shall be vested in a
						Governor. He shall hold his office during four years, and shall not be eligible more
						than four years in any period of eight years.
					SEC. 2. There shall be a Lieutenant-Governor, who shall hold his
						office during four years.
					SEC. 3. The Governor and Lieutenant-Governor shall be elected at the
						times and places of choosing members of the General Assembly.
					SEC. 4. In voting for Governor and Lieutenant-Governor the electors
						shall designate for whom they vote as Governor, and for whom as Lieutenant-Governor. The
						returns of every election for Governor and Lieutenant-Governor shall be sealed up and
						transmitted to the seat of government, directed to the Speaker of the House of
						Representatives, who shall open and publish them in the presence of both Houses of the
						General Assembly.
					SEC. 5. The persons, respectively, having the highest number of
						votes for Governor or Lieutenant-Governor, shall be elected; but in case two or more
						persons shall have an equal and the highest number of votes for either office, the
						General Assembly shall, by joint vote, forthwith proceed to elect one of the said
						persons Governor or Lieutenant-Governor, as the case may be.
					SEC. 6. Contested elections for Governor or Lieutenant-Governor
						shall be determined by the General Assembly, in such manner as may be prescribed by
						law.
					SEC. 7. No person shall be eligible to the office of Governor or
						Lieutenant-Governor who shall not have been five years a citizen of the United States,
						and also a resident of the State of Indiana during the five years next preceding his
						election; nor shall any person be eligible to either of the said offices who shall not
						have attained the age of thirty years.
					
					SEC. 8. No member of Congress, or person holding any office under
						the United States, or under this State, shall fill the office of Governor or
						Lieutenant-Governor.
					SEC. 9. The official term of the Governor and Lieutenant-Governor
						shall commence on the Second Monday of January in the year one thousand eight hundred
						and fifty-three; and on the same day every fourth year thereafter.
					SEC. 10. In case of the removal of the Governor from office, or of
						his death, resignation or inability to discharge the duties of the office, the same
						shall devolve on the Lieutenant-Governor; and the General Assembly shall, by law,
						provide for the case of removal from office, death, resignation, or inability, both of
						the Governor and Lieutenant-Governor, declaring what officer shall then act as Governor;
						and such officer shall act accordingly until the disability be removed or a Governor be
						elected.
					SEC. 11. Whenever the Lieutenant-Governor shall act as Governor, or
						shall be unable to attend as President of the Senate, the Senate shall elect one of its
						own members as President for the occasion.
					SEC. 12. The Governor shall be commander-in-chief of the military
						and naval forces, and may call out such forces to execute the laws, or to suppress
						insurrection, or to repel invasion.
					SEC. 13. He shall, from time to time, give to the General Assembly
						information touching the condition of the State, and recommend such measures as he shall
						judge to be expedient.
					SEC. 14. Every bill which shall have passed the General Assembly
						shall be presented to the Governor; if he approve, he shall sign it, but if not, he
						shall return it, with his objections, to the House in which it shall have originated,
						which House shall enter the objections at large upon its journals and proceed to
						reconsider the bill. If, after such reconsideration, a majority of all the members
						elected to that House shall agree to pass the bill, it shall be sent, with the
						Governor's objections, to the other House, by which it shall likewise be reconsidered,
						and, if approved by a majority of all the members elected to that House, it shall be a
						law. If any bill shall not be returned by the Governor within three days, Sundays
						excepted, after it shall have been presented to him, it shall be a law without his
						signature, unless the general adjournment shall prevent its return, in which case it
						shall be a law, unless the Governor, within five days next after such adjournment, shall
						file such bill, with his objections thereto, in the office of the Secretary of State,
						who shall lay the same before the General Assembly at its next session in like manner as
						if it had been returned by the Governor. But no bill shall be presented to the Governor
							 within two days next previous to the final adjournment
						of the General Assembly.
					SEC. 15. The Governor shall transact all necessary business with the
						officers of Government, and may require information in writing from the officers of the
						administrative department, upon any subject relating to the duties of their respective
						offices.
					SEC. 16. He shall take care that the laws be faithfully
						executed.
					SEC. 17. He shall have the power to grant reprieves, commutations
						and pardons, after conviction, for all offenses except treason and cases of impeachment,
						subject to such regulations as may be provided by law. Upon conviction for treason, he
						shall have power to suspend the execution of the sentence until the case shall be
						reported to the General Assembly at its next meeting, when the General Assembly shall
						either grant a pardon, commute the sentence, direct the execution of the sentence, or
						grant a further reprieve. He shall have power to remit fines and forfeitures, under such
						regulations as may be prescribed by law, and shall report to the General Assembly at its
						next meeting, each case of reprieve, commutation or pardon granted, and also the names
						of all persons in whose favor remissions of fines and forfeitures shall have been made,
						and the several amounts remitted: Provided, however, That the General
						Assembly may, by law, constitute a council, to be composed of officers of State, without
						whose advice and consent the Governor shall not have power to grant pardons in any case
						except such as may, by law, be left to his sole power.
					SEC. 18. When, during a recess of the General Assembly, a vacancy
						shall happen in any office, the appointment to which is vested in the General Assembly,
						or when, at any time, a vacancy shall have occurred in any other State office, or in the
						office of judge of any court, the Governor shall fill such vacancy by appointment, which
						shall expire when a successor shall have been elected and qualified.
					SEC. 19. He shall issue writs of election to fill such vacancies as
						may have occurred in the General Assembly.
					SEC. 20. Should the seat of government become dangerous from disease
						or a common enemy, he may convene the General Assembly at any other place.
					SEC. 21. The Lieutenant-Governor shall, by virtue of his office, be
						President of the Senate; have a right, when in Committee of the Whole, to join in
						debate, and to vote on all subjects, and, whenever the Senate shall be equally divided,
						he shall give the casting vote.
					SEC. 22. The Governor shall, at stated times, receive for his
						services a compensation which shall neither be increased nor diminished during the term
						for which he shall have been elected.
					
					SEC. 23. The Lieutenant-Governor, while he shall act as President of
						the Senate, shall receive for his services the same compensation as the Speaker of the
						House of Representatives; and any person acting as Governor shall receive the
						compensation attached to the office of Governor.
					SEC. 24. Neither the Governor nor Lieutenant-Governor shall be
						eligible to any other office during the term for which he shall have been elected.
				

				
					ARTICLE VI
					ADMINISTRATIVE

					SECTION 1. There shall be elected by the voters of the State, a
						Secretary, an Auditor, and a Treasurer of State, who shall severally hold their offices
						for two years. They shall perform such duties as may be enjoined by law; and no person
						shall be eligible to either of said offices more than four years in any period of six
						years.
					SEC. 2. There shall be elected in each county, by the voters
						thereof, at the time of holding general elections, a Clerk of the Circuit Court,
						Auditor, Recorder, Treasurer, Sheriff, Coroner and Surveyor. The Clerk, Auditor, and
						Recorder shall continue in office four years, and no person shall be eligible to the
						office of Clerk, Recorder or Auditor more than eight years in any period of twelve
						years. The Treasurer, Sheriff, Coroner and Surveyor shall continue in office two years;
						and no person shall be eligible to the office of Treasurer or Sheriff more than four
						years in any period of six years.
					SEC. 3. Such other county and township officers as may be necessary
						shall be elected or appointed, in such manner as may be prescribed by law.
					SEC. 4. No person shall be elected or appointed as a county officer
						who shall not be an elector of the county; nor any one who shall not have been an
						inhabitant thereof during one year next preceding his appointment, if the county shall
						have been so long organized; but if the county shall not have been so long organized,
						then within the limits of the county or counties out of which the same shall have been
						taken.
					SEC. 5. The Governor, and the Secretary, Auditor and Treasurer of
						State, shall, severally, reside and keep the public records, books, and papers, in any
						manner relating to the respective offices, at the seat of government.
					SEC. 6. All county, township and town officers shall reside within
						their respective counties, townships and towns, and shall keep their  respective offices at such places therein, and perform such
						duties as may be directed by law.
					Sec. 7. All State officers shall, for crime, incapacity, or
						negligence, be liable to be removed from office, either by impeachment by the House of
						Representatives, to be tried by the Senate, or by a joint resolution of the General
						Assembly; two-thirds of the members elected to each branch voting, in either case,
						therefor.
					SEC. 8. All State, county, township and town officers may be
						impeached or removed from office in such manner as may be prescribed by law.
					SEC. 9. Vacancies in county, township and town offices shall be
						filled in such manner as may be prescribed by law.
					SEC. 10. The General Assembly may confer upon the Boards doing
						county business in the several counties powers of a local administrative character.
				

				
					ARTICLE VII
					JUDICIAL

					SECTION 1. The judicial power of the State shall be vested in a
						Supreme Court, in Circuit Courts, and in such other courts as the General Assembly may
						establish.
					SEC. 2. The Supreme Court shall consist of not less than three nor
						more than five Judges; a majority of whom shall form a quorum. They shall hold their
						offices for six years, if they so long behave well.
					SEC. 3. The State shall be divided into as many districts as there
						are Judges of the Supreme Court, and such districts shall be formed of contiguous
						territory, as nearly equal in population as, without dividing a county, the same can be
						made. One of said Judges shall be elected from each district, and reside therein; but
						said Judge shall be elected by the electors of the State at large.
					SEC. 4. The Supreme Court shall have jurisdiction co-extensive with
						the limits of the State, in appeals and writs of error, under such regulations and
						restrictions as may be prescribed by law. It shall also have such original jurisdiction
						as the General Assembly may confer.
					SEC. 5. The Supreme Court shall, upon the decision of every case,
						give a statement in writing of each question arising in the record of such case, and the
						decision of the Court thereon.
					SEC. 6. The General Assembly shall provide by law for the speedy
						publication of the decisions of the Supreme Court, made under this Constitution, but no
						Judge shall be allowed to report such decisions.
					
					SEC. 7. There shall be elected by the voters of the State, a Clerk
						of the Supreme Court, who shall hold his office four years, and whose duties shall be
						prescribed by law.
					SEC. 8. The Circuit Courts shall each consist of one judge, and
						shall have such civil and criminal jurisdiction as may be prescribed by law.
					SEC. 9. The State shall, from time to time, be divided into judicial
						circuits, and a judge for each circuit shall be elected by the voters thereof. He shall
						reside within the circuit and shall hold his office for the term of six years, if he so
						long behave well.
					SEC. 10. The General Assembly may provide, by law, that the judge of
						one circuit may hold the courts of another circuit in cases of necessity or convenience;
						and in case of temporary inability of any judge, from sickness or other cause, to hold
						the courts in his circuit, provision may be made, by law, for holding such courts.
					SEC. 11. There shall be elected in each judicial circuit, by the
						voters thereof, a prosecuting attorney, who shall hold his office for two years.
					SEC. 12. Any judge or prosecuting attorney who shall have been
						convicted of corruption or other high crime, may, on information in the name of the
						State, be removed from office by the Supreme Court, or in such other manner as may be
						prescribed by law.
					SEC. 13. The judges of the Supreme Court and Circuit Courts shall,
						at stated times, receive a compensation, which shall not be diminished during their
						continuance in office.
					SEC. 14. A competent number of justices of the peace shall be
						elected by the voters in each township in the several counties. They shall continue in
						office four years, and their powers and duties shall be prescribed by law.
					SEC. 15. All judicial officers shall be conservators of the peace in
						their respective jurisdictions.
					SEC. 16. No person elected to any judicial office shall, during the
						term for which he shall have been elected, be eligible to any office of trust or profit
						under the State, other than a judicial office.
					SEC. 17. The General Assembly may modify or abolish the grand jury
						system.
					SEC. 18. All criminal prosecutions shall be carried on in the name,
						and by the authority of the State; and the style of all processes shall be, "The State
						of Indiana."
					SEC. 19. Tribunals of conciliation may be established, with such
						powers and duties as shall be prescribed by law; or the powers and duties of the same
						may be conferred upon other courts of justice; but such tribunals or other courts, when
						sitting as such, shall have no power to render judgment to be obligatory on the parties
						unless they voluntarily  submit their matters of difference
						and agree to abide the judgment of such tribunal or court.
					SEC. 20. The General Assembly, at its first session after the
						adoption of this Constitution, shall provide for the appointment of three commissioners
						whose duty it shall be to revise, simplify and abridge the rules, practice, pleadings
						and forms of the courts of justice. And they shall provide for abolishing the distinct
						forms of action at law now in use; and that justice shall be administered in a uniform
						mode of pleading, without distinction between law and equity. And the General Assembly
						may also make it the duty of said commissioners to reduce into a systematic code of
						general statute law of the State; and said commissioners shall report the result of
						their labors to the General Assembly, with such recommendations and suggestions, as to
						abridgment and amendment, as to said commissioners may seem necessary or proper.
						Provision shall be made by law for filling vacancies, regulating the tenure of office
						and the compensation of said commissioners.
					SEC. 21. Every person of good moral character, being a voter, shall
						be entitled to admission to practice law in all courts of justice.
				

				
					ARTICLE VIII
					EDUCATION

					SECTION 1. Knowledge and learning generally diffused throughout a
						community, being essential to the preservation of a free government, it shall be the
						duty of the General Assembly to encourage, by all suitable means, moral, intellectual,
						scientific, and agricultural improvement, and to provide by law, for a general and
						uniform system of common schools, wherein tuition shall be without charge, and equally
						open to all.
					SEC. 2. The Common School Fund shall consist of the congressional
						township fund and the lands belonging thereto;
					The surplus revenue fund;
					The saline fund and the lands belonging thereto;
					The bank tax fund, and the fund arising from the one hundred and fourteenth section of
						the charter of the State Bank of Indiana;
					The fund to be derived from the sale of county seminaries, and the moneys and property
						heretofore held for such seminaries; from the fines assessed for breaches of the penal
						laws of the State; and from all forfeitures which may accrue;
					All lands and other estate which shall escheat to the State for want of heirs or
						kindred entitled to the inheritance;
					All lands that have been or may hereafter be granted to the State,  where no special purpose is expressed in the grant, and the proceeds of the
						sale thereof; including the proceeds of the sales of the swamp lands granted to the
						State of Indiana by the act of Congress, of the 28th of September, 1850, after deducting
						the expense of selecting and draining the same;
					Taxes on the property of corporations that may be assessed by the General Assembly for
						common school purposes.
					SEC. 3. The principal of the Common School Fund shall remain a
						perpetual fund, which may be increased, but shall never be diminished; and the income
						thereof shall be inviolably appropriated to the support of common schools, and to no
						other purpose whatever.
					SEC. 4. The General Assembly shall invest, in some safe and
						profitable manner, all such portions of the Common School Fund as have not heretofore
						been entrusted to the several counties; and shall make provision, by law, for the
						distribution, among the several counties, of the interest thereof.
					SEC. 5. If any county shall fail to demand its proportion of such
						interest for common school purposes, the same shall be reinvested for the benefit of
						such county.
					SEC. 6. The several counties shall be held liable for the
						preservation of so much of the said fund as may be entrusted to them, and for the
						payment of the annual interest thereon.
					SEC. 7. All trust funds held by the State shall remain inviolate,
						and be faithfully and exclusively applied to the purposes for which the trust was
						created.
					SEC. 8. The General Assembly shall provide for the election, by the
						voters of the State, of a State Superintendent of Public Instruction, who shall hold his
						office for two years, and whose duties and compensation shall be prescribed by law.
				

				
					ARTICLE IX
					STATE INSTITUTIONS

					SECTION 1. It shall be the duty of the General Assembly to provide
						by law for the support of Institutions for the Education of the Deaf and Dumb, and of
						the Blind; and also for the treatment of the Insane.
					SEC. 2. The General Assembly shall provide Houses of Refuge for the
						correction and reformation of juvenile offenders.
					SEC. 3. The County Boards shall have power to provide farms as an
						asylum for those persons who, by reason of age, infirmity, or other misfortune, have
						claims upon the sympathies and aid of society.
				

				
					ARTICLE X
					FINANCE
					

					SECTION 1. The General Assembly shall provide, by law, for a uniform
						and equal rate of assessment and taxation; and shall prescribe such regulations as shall
						secure a just valuation for taxation of all property, both real and personal, excepting
						such only for municipal, educational, literary, scientific, religious or charitable
						purposes, as may be specially exempted by law.
					SEC. 2. All the revenues derived from the sale of any of the public
						works belonging to the State, and from the net annual income thereof, and any surplus
						that may, at any time, remain in the treasury, derived from taxation, for general State
						purposes, after the payment of the ordinary expenses of the government, and of the
						interest on bonds of the State, other than bank bonds, shall be annually applied, under
						the direction of the General Assembly, to the payment of the principal of the public
						debt.
					SEC. 3. No money shall be drawn from the treasury but in pursuance
						of appropriations made by law.
					SEC. 4. An accurate statement of the receipts and expenditures of
						the public money shall be published with the laws of each regular session of the General
						Assembly.
					SEC. 5. No law shall authorize any debt to be contracted, on behalf
						of the State, except in the following cases: To meet casual deficits in the revenue; to
						pay the interest on the State debt; to repel invasion, suppress insurrection, or, if
						hostilities be threatened, provide for public defense.
					SEC. 6. No county shall subscribe for stock in any incorporated
						company, unless the same be paid for at the time of such subscription; nor shall any
						county loan its credit to any incorporated company, nor borrow money for the purpose of
						taking stock in any such company; nor shall the General Assembly ever, on behalf of the
						State, assume the debts of any county, city town or township, nor of any corporation
						whatever.
					SEC. 7. No law or resolution shall ever be passed by the General
						Assembly of the State of Indiana that shall recognize any liability of this State to pay
						or redeem any certificate of stocks issued in pursuance of an act entitled "An act to
						provide for the funded debt of the State of Indiana, and for the completion of the
						Wabash & Erie Canal to Evansville," passed January 19, 1846, and an act supplemental
						to said act passed January 29, 1847, which, by the provisions of the said acts, or  either of them, shall be payable exclusively from the
						proceeds of the canal lands, and the tolls and revenues of the canal in said acts
						mentioned; and no such certificates of stock shall ever be paid by this State.
					[NOTE.--Agreed to by a majority of the members elected to each of
						the two houses of the General Assembly, Regular Session of 1871, and referred to the
						General Assembly to be chosen at the next general election. Agreed to by a majority of
						the members elected to each House of the General Assembly, Special Session of 1872.
						Submitted to the electors of the State by an act approved January 28, 1873. Ratified by
						a majority of the electors at an election held on the 18th day of February, 1873.
						Declared a part of the Constitution by proclamation of Thomas A. Hendricks, Governor,
						dated March 7, 1873.]
				

				
					ARTICLE XI
					CORPORATIONS

					SECTION 1. The General Assembly shall not have power to establish or
						incorporate any bank or banking company or moneyed institution for the purpose of
						issuing bills of credit, or bills payable to order or bearer, except under the
						conditions prescribed in this Constitution.
					SEC. 2. No bank shall be established otherwise than under a general
						banking law, except as provided in the fourth section of this article.
					SEC. 3. If the General Assembly shall enact a general banking law,
						such law shall provide for the registry and countersigning, by an officer of State, of
						all paper credit designed to be circulated as money; and ample collateral security,
						readily convertible into specie, for the redemption of the same in gold or silver, shall
						be required; which collateral security shall be under the control of the proper officer
						or officers of State.
					SEC. 4. The General Assembly may also charter a bank with branches,
						without collateral security, as required in the preceding section.
					SEC. 5. If the General Assembly shall establish a bank with
						branches, the branches shall be mutually responsible for each other's liabilities, upon
						all paper credit issued as money.
					SEC. 6. The stockholders in every bank, or banking company, shall be
						individually responsible to an amount over and above their stock, equal to their
						respective shares of stock, for all debts or liabilities of said bank or banking
						company.
					SEC. 7. All bills or notes issued as money shall be, at all times,
						redeemable in gold or silver; and no law shall be passed, sanctioning, directly or
						indirectly, the suspension, by any bank or banking company, of specie payments.
					
					SEC. 8. Holders of bank notes shall be entitled, in case of
						insolvency, to preference of payment over all other creditors.
					SEC. 9. No bank shall receive, directly or indirectly, a greater
						rate of interest than shall be allowed by law to individuals loaning money.
					SEC. 10. Every bank, or banking company, shall be required to cease
						all banking operations within twenty years from the time of its organization, and
						promptly thereafter to close its business.
					SEC. 11. The General Assembly is not prohibited from investing the
						trust funds in a bank with branches; but in case of such investment, the safety of the
						same shall be guaranteed by unquestionable security.
					SEC. 12. The State shall not be a stockholder in any bank after the
						expiration of the present bank charter; nor shall the credit of the State ever be given,
						or loaned, in aid of any person, association, or corporation, nor shall the State
						hereafter become a stockholder in any corporation or association.
					SEC. 13. Corporations, other than banking, shall not be created by
						special act, but may be formed under general laws.
					SEC. 14. Dues from corporations, other than banking, shall be
						secured by such individual liability of the corporators, or other means, as may be
						prescribed by law.
				

				
					ARTICLE XII
					MILITIA

					SECTION 1. The militia shall consist of all able-bodied white male
						persons between the ages of eighteen and forty-five years, except such as may be
						exempted by the laws of the United States or of this State; and shall be organized,
						officered, armed, equipped and trained in such manner as may be provided by law.
					SEC. 2. The Governor shall appoint the Adjutant, Quartermaster and
						Commissary Generals.
					SEC. 3. All militia officers shall be commissioned by the Governor,
						and shall hold their offices not longer than six years.
					SEC. 4. The General Assembly shall determine the method of dividing
						the militia into divisions, brigades, regiments, battalions and companies, and fix the
						rank of all staff officers.
					SEC. 5. The militia may be divided into classes of sedentary and
						active militia in such manner as shall be prescribed by law.
					SEC. 6. No person conscientiously opposed to bearing arms shall be
						compelled to do militia duty; but such person shall pay an equivalent for exemption; the
						amount to be prescribed by law.
				
				

				
					ARTICLE XIII
					POLITICAL AND MUNICIPAL CORPORATIONS

					SECTION 1. No political or municipal corporation in this State shall
						ever become indebted, in any manner or for any purpose, to any amount in the aggregate
						exceeding two per centum on the value of taxable property within such corporation, to be
						ascertained by the last assessment for State and county taxes, previous to the incurring
						of such indebtedness, and all bonds or obligations, in excess of such amount, given by
						such corporations, shall be void: Provided, That in time of war,
						foreign invasion, or other great public calamity, on petition of a majority of the
						property owners, in number and value, within the limits of such corporation, the public
						authorities in their discretion may incur obligations necessary for the public
						protection and defense, to such an amount as may be requested in such petition.
					[The original article 13 is stricken out and the amendment of March 24, 1881, inserted
						in lieu thereof.]
				

				
					ARTICLE XIV
					BOUNDARIES

					SECTION 1. In order that the boundaries of the State may be known
						and established, it is hereby ordained and declared that the State of Indiana is bounded
						on the east by the meridian line which forms the western boundary of the State of Ohio;
						on the south by the Ohio River, from the mouth of the Great Miami River to the mouth of
						the Wabash River; on the west by a line drawn along the middle of the Wabash River, from
						its mouth to a point where a due north line, drawn from the town of Vincennes, would
						last touch the northwestern shore of said Wabash River; and thence by a due north line,
						until the same shall intersect an east and west line, drawn through a point ten miles
						north of the southern extreme of Lake Michigan; on the north by said east and west line,
						until the same shall intersect the first-mentioned meridian line, which forms the
						western boundary of the State of Ohio.
					SEC. 2. The State of Indiana shall possess jurisdiction and
						sovereignty co-extensive with the boundaries declared in the preceding section; and
						shall have concurrent jursidiction, in civil and criminal cases, with the State of
						Kentucky on the Ohio River, and with the State of Illinois on the Wabash River, so far
						as said rivers form the common boundary between this State and said States,
						respectively.
				
				
				
					ARTICLE XV
					MISCELLANEOUS

					SECTION 1. All officers whose appointment is not otherwise provided
						for in this Constitution shall be chosen in such manner as now is, or hereafter may be,
						prescribed by law.
					SEC. 2. When the duration of any office is not provided for by this
						Constitution, it may be declared by law; and if not so declared, such office shall be
						held during the pleasure of the authority making the appointment. But the General
						Assembly shall not create any office the tenure of which shall be longer than four
						years.
					SEC. 3. Whenever it is provided in this Constitution, or in any law
						which may be hereafter passed, that any officer, other than a member of the General
						Assembly, shall hold his office for any given term, the same shall be construed to mean
						that such officer shall hold his office for such term, and until his successor shall
						have been elected and qualified.
					SEC. 4. Every person elected or appointed to any office under this
						Constitution shall, before entering on the duties thereof, take an oath or affirmation
						to support the Constitution of this State and of the United States, and also an oath of
						office.
					SEC. 5. There shall be a seal of State, kept by the Governor for
						official purposes, which shall be called the Seal of the State of Indiana.
					SEC. 6. All commissions shall issue in the name of the State, shall
						be signed by the Governor, sealed by the State Seal, and attested by the Secretary of
						State.
					SEC. 7. No county shall be reduced to an area less than four hundred
						square miles; nor shall any county under that area be further reduced.
					SEC. 8. No lottery shall be authorized, nor shall the sale of
						lottery tickets be allowed.
					SEC. 9. The following grounds owned by the State in Indianapolis:
						The State House Square, the Governor's Circle, and so much of out-lot numbered one
						hundred and forty-seven as lies north of the arm of the Central Canal, shall not be sold
						or leased.
					SEC. 10. It shall be the duty of the General Assembly to provide for
						the permanent enclosure and preservation of the Tippecanoe Battle-Ground.
				

				
					ARTICLE XVI
					AMENDMENTS

					SECTION 1. Any amendment or amendments to this Constitution may be
						proposed in either branch of the General Assembly; and if 
						the same shall be agreed to by a majority of the members elected to each of the two
						houses, such proposed amendment or amendments shall, with the yeas and nays thereon, be
						entered on their journals and referred to the General Assembly to be chosen at the next
						general election; and, if in the General Assembly so next chosen, such proposed
						amendment or amendments shall be agreed to by a majority of all the members elected to
						each House, then, it shall be the duty of the General Assembly to submit such amendment
						or amendments to the electors of the State, and if a majority of said electors shall
						ratify the same, such amendment or amendments shall become a part of this
						Constitution.
					SEC. 2. If two or more amendments shall be submitted at the same
						time, they shall be submitted in such manner that the electors shall vote for or against
						each of such amendments separately; and while such amendment or amendments which shall
						have been agreed upon by one General Assembly shall be awaiting the action of the
						succeeding General Assembly, or of the electors, no additional amendment or amendments
						shall be proposed.
				

				
					SCHEDULE

					This Constitution, if adopted, shall take effect on the first day of November, in the
						year one thousand eight hundred and fifty-one, and shall supersede the Constitution
						adopted in the year one thousand eight hundred and sixteen. That no inconvenience may
						arise from the change in the government, it is hereby ordained as follows:
					First. All laws now in force and not inconsistent with this
						Constitution shall remain in force until they shall expire or be repealed.
					Second. All indictments, prosecutions, suits, pleas, plaints and
						other proceedings pending in any of the courts, shall be prosecuted to final judgment
						and execution; and all appeals, writs of error, certiorari and injunctions shall be
						carried on in the several courts, in the same manner as is now provided by law.
					Third. All fines, penalties and forfeitures, due or accruing to the
						State, or to any county therein, shall inure to the State, or to such county in the
						matter prescribed by law. All bonds executed to the State, or to any officer in his
						official capacity, shall remain in force, and inure to the use of those concerned.
					Fourth. All acts of incorporations for municipal purposes shall
						continue in force under this Constitution, until such time as the General Assembly
						shall, in its discretion, modify or repeal the same.
					
						Fifth. The Governor, at the expiration of the present official term,
						shall continue to act until his successor shall have been sworn into office.
					
					Sixth. There shall be a session of the General Assembly, commencing
						on the first Monday of December, in the year one thousand eight hundred and
						fifty-one.
					Seventh. Senators now in office and holding over, under the existing
						Constitution, and such as may be elected at the next general election, and the
						Representatives then elected, shall continue in office until the next general election
						under this Constitution.
					Eighth. The first general election under this Constitution shall be
						held in the year one thousand eight hundred and fifty-two.
					Ninth. The first election for Governor, Lieutenant-Governor, Judges
						of the Supreme Court and Circuit Courts, Clerk of the Supreme Court, Prosecuting
						Attorney, Secretary, Auditor, and Treasurer of State, and State Superintendent of Public
						Instruction, under this Constitution, shall be held at the general election in the year
						one thousand eight hundred and fifty-two; and such of said officers as may be in office
						when this Constitution shall go into effect, shall continue in their respective offices
						until their successors shall have been elected and qualified.
					Tenth. Every person elected by popular vote, and now in any office
						which is continued by this Constitution, and every person who shall be so elected to any
						such office before the taking effect of this Constitution (except as in this
						Constitution otherwise provided), shall continue in office until the term for which such
						person has been, or may be, elected, shall expire: Provided, That no
						such person shall continue in office, after the taking effect of this Constitution, for
						a longer period than the term of such office in this Constitution prescribed.
					Eleventh. On the taking effect of this Constitution, all officers
						thereby continued in office shall, before proceeding in the further discharge of their
						duties, take an oath or affirmation to support this Constitution.
					Twelfth. All vacancies that may occur in existing offices prior to
						the first general election under this Constitution, shall be filled in the manner now
						prescribed by law.
					Thirteenth. At the time of submitting this Constitution to the
						electors for their approval or disapproval, the article No. 13, in relation to negroes
						and mulattoes, shall be submitted as a distinct proposition, in the following form:
						"Exclusion and Colonization of Negroes and Mulattoes," "Aye," or "No." And if a majority
						of the votes cast shall be in favor of said article, then the same shall form a part of
						this Constitution, otherwise it shall be void and form no part thereof.
					Fourteenth. No article or section of this Constitution shall be
						submitted as a distinct proposition to a vote of the electors otherwise than is herein
						provided.
					
					Fifteenth. Whenever a portion of the citizens of the counties of
						Perry and Spencer shall deem it expedient to form, of the contiguous territory of said
						counties, a new county, it shall be the duty of those interested in the organization of
						such new county, to lay off the same by proper metes and bounds of equal portions, as
						nearly as practicable, not to exceed one-third of the territory of each of said
						counties. The proposal to create such new county shall be submitted to the voters of
						said counties, at a general election, in such manner as shall be prescribed by law. And
						if a majority of all the votes given at said election shall be in favor of the
						organization of said new county, it shall be the duty of the General Assembly to
						organize the same out of the territory thus designated.
					Sixteenth. The General Assembly may alter or amend the charter of
						Clarksville, and make such regulations as may be necessary for carrying into effect the
						objects contemplated in granting the same and the funds belonging to said town shall be
						applied according to the intention of the grantor.
					Done in convention, at Indianapolis, the tenth day of February, in the year of our
						Lord, one thousand eight hundred and fifty-one, and of the independence of the United
						States, the seventy-fifth.
					
						GEORGE WHITFIELD CARR,
						President and Delegate from the County of Lawrence.
					

					 Attest: WM. H. ENGLISH, Principal
							Secretary.

					GEO. L. SITES, HERMAN G. BARKWELL, ROBERT M. EVANS, Assistant Secretaries.
				
			

			

			

				INDEX
				

					Academy of Science, Indiana, 22.
					Accounting Board, Public, 18.
					Adjutant-General, 18.
					Administrative Officers, 14.
					Agriculture, State Board of, 22.
					Antietam Commission, 22.
					Apiaries, Inspection of, 20.
					Appellate Court, 27.
					Apportionment, Legislative, 6.
					Assessor, County, 33; Township, 39.
					Attorney, City, 43; County, 36; Prosecuting, 28, 34.
					Attorney-General, 12.
					Auditor, County, 32; State, 12.
				

				

					Bacteriological Department, 15.
					Banks, Examination of, 12.
					Battlefield Memorial Commissions, 22.
					Bill of Rights, 3.
					Blind, Institution for, 24.
					Boilers, Inspection of, 20.
					Building and Loan Associations, Examination of, 12.
					Buildings, Inspection of, 20.
				

				

					Charitable Institutions, Inspection of, 16-17.
					Charities, Board of State, 16-17; County Board of, 35.
					Chemist, Chief, 14.
					Chickamauga Commission, 22.
					Children's Guardians, Board of, 35.
					Circuit Courts, 27.
					City Government, 39, 40; Classification, 39-40.
					Claims, Court of, 27.
					Clerk, City, 41; County, 32; of Supreme Court, 13-14.
					Commissary-General, 18-19.
					Constables, 39.
					Constitution, 2-5; Text of, 52-76.
					Constitutional Conventions, 2.
					Contract, Impairing, 4.
					Controller, City, 43.
					Corn Growers' Association, 22.
					Coroner, County, 33.
					Council, City, 41; County, 31
					Counties, Organization of, 36-38; Map, 37.
					County Attorney, 36; Clerk, 32; Commissioners, 31; Council, 31; Officials, 31;
						Physician, 35.
					Courts, 26; County, 34; Judges, 26, 27, 34; Officers, 27, 32, 36, 39.
					Criminal Courts, 27-28.
				

				

					Dairymen's Association, 22.
					Deaf, Institution for, 24.
					Dental Examiners, Board of, 21.
					Depositories for State Funds, 12, 18.
					Documents, Distribution of, 16.
					Drugs, Laboratory of, 14.
				

				

					Education, County Board of, 34; State Board of, 15.
					Educational Institutions, 23.
					Elections, 4.
					Embalmers, Board of, 21.
					Employment Bureau, 13.
					Entomologist, 20.
					Epileptic Village, 24.
					Equalization, County Board of, 36.
					Executive Department, 10.
				

				

					Factory Inspector, 19-20.
					Feeble-Minded, School for, 24.
					Finance, State Board of, 18.
					Fisheries and Game, Commissioner of, 20.
					Florists' Association, 22.
					Food, Commissioner of, 14; Laboratory of, 14.
					Foreigners, Right to Vote, 4
					Forestry, Board of, 20.
					Freedom of Speech, 3.
				

				

					Geologist, State, 13.
					Governor: Age, 10; Duties of, 10; Historical List of, 47-48; Length of Term, 11;
						Message to Legislature, 10; Pardoning Power, 10; Salary, 11; Term of Office, 11; Veto,
						10.
					Grand Jury, 36.
				

				

					Habeas Corpus, 2, 4.
					Health, State Board of, 14; City Board of, 43.
					
					High Schools Commissioned by Board of Education, 15.
					Historical Society of Indiana, 22.
					Horticultural Diseases, 20.
					Horticultural Society, State, 22.
					House of Representatives, 5; Age of Members, 6; Number in, 5; Pay of Members, 8;
						Presiding Officer, 7; Rights of Members, 6.
					Hygiene, Laboratory of, 14.
				

				

					Impeachment of State Officers, 14.
					Indiana Centennial Commission, 22.
					Indiana Territory, 2.
					Indiana University, 23.
					Industrial Education Commission, 22.
					Insane, Hospitals for, 23; County Hospitals for, 35.
					Inspection, State Bureau of, 19-20.
					Insurance Department, 12.
				

				

					Judge, City, 41.
					Judges, 26, 27.
					Judiciary, County, 34; State, 26, 27.
					Jury, Commissioners, 36; Grand, 36; Trial by, 3.
					Justices of the Peace, 39.
					Juvenile Court, 28.
				

				

					Laboratory of Hygiene, Food and Drugs, 14.
					Land Records, 12.
					Law-Making, 7.
					Laws, Local and Special, 7.
					Laws, Published by Secretary of State, 12.
					Legislative Department, 5; Investigating Committee, 19; Reference Department,
						17.
					Legislature: Apportionment, 6; Committees of, 8; Duties of, 7; Election of U. S.
						Senators, 9; Journals of, 7; Length of Sessions, 6; Officers of, 7; Pay of Members, 8;
						Qualifications of Members, 6; Rights of Members, 6; Sessions of, 6; Special Sessions,
						6.
					Librarian, State, 16; City, 43.
					Libraries, Travelling, 16.
					Library, Board of State, 15; State, 16; Supreme Court, 28.
					Lieutenant Governor: Duties of, 11; Length of Term, 11; Pay of, 11; Presiding
						Officer of Senate, 7, 11.
					Live Stock Breeders' Association, 22.
					Local Government, 30.
					Local Legislation Prohibited, 7.
				

				

					Master Commissioner, 36.
					Mayor, The, 41.
					Medical Registration and Examination, State Board of, 15.
					Militia, 19; Governor Commander-in-Chief of, 10, 19.
					Mines and Mining, Inspection of, 20.
					Museum, 13.
				

				

					National Guard, 19.
					Nominations for Office, 44.
					Normal Instruction, 15.
					Normal School, State, 23.
					Northwest Territory, 1.
					Notaries Public, 20.
					Nurses, Registration and Examination of, 21.
				

				

					Office, Eligibility to, 4.
					Officers, Removal of, 14.
					Oil Inspector, 21.
					Ordinance of 1787, 1, 49, 50, 51.
				

				

					Pardons, Board of, 17; Governor's Power to Grant, 10.
					Park Commissioners, Board of, 43.
					Penal Institutions, 23.
					People, Rights of, 3.
					Pharmacy, Board of, 21.
					Physician, County, 35.
					Physicians, Licensing, 15.
					Poor Farm, County, 35.
					Poor Relief, Township, 17.
					Preamble, 3.
					Primaries, 44-45.
					Printing, Commissioners of Public, 18.
					Prison Labor Commission, 22.
					Prisons, 23.
					Probate Commissioner, 36; Court, 34; Judge, 34.
					Probation Officers, 28.
					Prosecuting Attorney, 28, 34.
					Public Instruction, Superintendent of, 13.
					Public Library Commission, 16.
					Purdue University, 23.
				

				

					Quartermaster-General, 18.
					Questions: On Constitution and Legislative Department, 9; On the Courts, 29; On the
						Governor and Administrative Offices, 24-25; On Local Government, 45.
				

				

					Railroad Commission, 18.
					Recorder, County, 33.
					Reformation, 3.
					Reformatory, 23.
					Reporter of Supreme Court, 14.
					Revenue, 43; School, 44.
					Review, County Board of, 36.
					
					Rights, Bill of, 3.
					Road Supervisor, 39.
				

				

					Safety, Board of Public, 42.
					School Book Commissioners, 15.
					Schools: City Board of, 42; City Superintendent, 43; County Superintendent, 34;
						Courses of Study, 15; Funds, 13, 44; Laws, 13; Revenues, 44; Text Books, 15.
					Secretary of State, 11-12.
					Senate, 6; Age of Senators, 6; Number in, 6; Pay of Members, 8; Presiding Officer
						of, 7; Rights of Members, 6.
					Sheriff, County, 32-33.
					Shiloh Commission, 22.
					Short-Horned Breeders' Association, 22.
					Soldiers' Home, 24.
					Soldiers and Sailors' Monument, 22; Orphans' Home, 24.
					Speaker, 7, 11.
					Special Commissions, 22.
					Special Legislation Prohibited, 7.
					Speech, Freedom of, 3.
					St. Clair, Arthur, 2.
					State Agency, 17.
					State Fair, 22.
					State House, Custodian of, 20.
					State Institutions, 23-24.
					Statistician, 13.
					Suffrage, 4.
					Superintendent of Public Instruction, 13.
					Superior Courts, 27.
					Supreme Court, 26; Clerk of, 13-14; Library, 28; Reporter of, 14.
					Surveyor, County, 33.
				

				

					Tax Commissioners, State Board of, 17-18, 44.
					Taxation, 43.
					Teachers, Examining and Licensing of, 15.
					Title of Nobility, 4.
					Town Government, 40.
					Township, 38; Advisory Board, 38; Assessor, 39; Trustee, 38.
					Treason, 4.
					Treasurer, City, 32, 41; County, 31-32; State, 12.
					Trees, Protection of, 20.
					Trial, Public, 3.
					Truancy Board, 17.
					Truant Officer, 35.
					Tuberculosis Hospital, 24.
				

				

					United States Senators, Election of, 9.
					University, Indiana, 23.
				

				

					Veterinarian, State, 21.
					Vicksburg Battlefield Commission, 22.
					Vital Statistics, State Board of Health to Keep Record of, 14.
					Voters, Qualifications, 4.
				

				

					Weights and Measures, 15.
					Works, Board of Public, 42.
				
			

		
	


