
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Book, William Frederick, 1872-1940.. Suggestions for the study of vocational education in township
					institutes. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2013).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAB9259
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		
			
			
			
			
				
					[Reprint from Outlines for Township Institutes for
						1914-15.]
					III. SUGGESTIONS FOR THE STUDY OF VOCATIONAL EDUCATION
							IN TOWNSHIP INSTITUTES.
				
				By W. F. BOOK,
					Deputy State Superintendent in Charge of Vocational Education.
				
			
		

		

		
			
				SUGGESTIONS FOR THE STUDY OF VOCATIONAL EDUCATION IN
						TOWNSHIP INSTITUTES.

				The texts for the Teachers' Reading Circle the present year and the township institute
					work afford an opportunity for the teachers of the State to study systematically some of
					the new problems which the recent educational development in Indiana makes it incumbent
					upon us to solve. Indiana has, by its recent legislation, adopted a state-wide program for
					Vocational Education. Tentative plans for this work have been formulated by the State
					Board of Education and certain aspects of the work begun. Nothing is more important for
					the success of this venture than that the teachers and parents of the State should clearly
					understand what this new movement for vocational education means. Teachers especially
					should get a clear idea of what the State hopes to accomplish by means of this work. Many
					new problems must be taken up and solved before vocational education can become a reality
					in this State. It is important that these problems should be studied and discussed this
					year. For this reason a large part Qf the township institute work this year has been
					focused on the subject of vocational education and the problems which this movement has
					set for the teachers and public schools of the State.
				The following outline and discussion of vocational education has been prepared with a
					view of giving teachers, superintendents and patrons interested in this subject some
					direction and help in their study of the many practical problems that have been raised by
					our new Vocational Education law and the work which it makes possible or requires. The
					subject matter of both reading circle texts is directly or indirectly related to this
					vocational work and the topics treated below have been arranged for a systematic study of
					the entire problem including the topics discussed in the reading circle texts.
				On each of the topics discussed in this outline, a selected list of references for
					further study is given at the close of this article so that any of the problems pointed
					out may be more thoroughly studied than the treatment given them in the outline or reading
					circle texts makes possible. It is hoped that this outline and statement of the more
					important problems raised by a state-wide program  for
					vocational education may be suggestive and helpful to the superintendents and teachers of
					the State.
				The Vocational Division of the Department of Public Instruction holds itself in readiness
					to give individual teachers and township or county associations any help it may be able to
					render in their study of this subject this year. All communications for such service or
					help should be directed to the Vocational Division, Department of Public Instruction,
					Indianapolis.

				
					A. The Probem of Vocational Education
					
						1. WHAT VOCATIONAL EDUCATION REALLY MEANS OR SEEKS TO ACCOMPLISH.

						Various attempts have been made to make clear what vocational education really means
							or seeks to accomplish.1 Having
							committed ourselves by recent legislation to a state-wide program for vocational
							education, it is important that we get a clear idea of what such a program of
							educational development really includes and how the proposed changes are related to
							the educational work we are now doing and which we have done in the past.
						The problem of vocational education can perhaps best be understood if viewed in the
							light of its historic development, for as at present defined and conceived by the
							leaders in the field, vocational education marks the culmination of the best
							educational theory and practice of all time.
						In the beginning all education was vocational. Primitive man taught his sons all he
							knew about the art of hunting and fighting. The mother taught her daughters all she
							knew about the tillage of the soil; the acquisition and preparation of food and
							clothes, and providing shelter for the tribe and family. The instruction was
							universal, for the fancied or practical wisdom which primitive man had acquired from
							his contact with nature was taught to the entire tribe. Each nation imparted to its
							children all the art and lore that it possessed.
						In the course of racial development this training and instruction became more and
							more of a conscious attempt on the part of the nations to better their condition as a
							people. Education became conscious attempt on the part of the nation or race carrying
							it as to bring about a practical and permanent betterment of its conditions.

						
							1Compare references on problem of vocational
							education, this bulletin, p. 46.


						

						Two factors were prominent in bringing about the change which this education or
							training sought to make: (1) The ideals as to what should be accomplished by means of
							the education or instruction given. (2) The machinery or system of schools which the
							nations devised and developed to accomplish this purpose. The directive force
							throughout the history of education has always been the ideas which have been held in
							regard to what education can or really ought to try to accomplish. These ideas in
							regard to the aim or purpose of education have changed from age to age and have
							differed widely for different nations.
						The Hebrews emphasized the moral side of education and through their whole history
							developed the ideal of righteousness, cleanness of thought and life. Education to them
							meant a training of the individual and people in such a way that their lives would be
							acceptable in the sight of Jehovah. The Greeks emphasized individual perfection and
							development, and by means of their entire civilization worked out this idea.
							Education, according to the best thought of the Greeks, sought to give to the body and
							to the soul all the perfection of which they were capable; and this was limited to the
							free Greek citizen. The Romans tried to produce by means of education a practical and
							efficient citizen. Education must be intensely practical and produce a citizen worthy
							of Rome at her best. This was followed by the early Christian ideal which made
							education a mere process of training or discipline. Education as viewed by the church
							soon became a mere process of training in preparation for a future life. This
							disciplinary ideal has gone through many forms in the course of educational
							development. Couched in its modern garb it makes education chiefly a process of habit
							formation; habits of thinking, feeling and acting or developing permanent interests in
							the things which the world calls beautiful, true and good.
						A number of modern ideals and some important modifications of ideals held by earlier
							civilized nations have been formulated by educational leaders in the past century and
							have served a useful purpose in guiding the practical work of the schools. One of the
							most important and far-reaching in its effects upon modern educational work is the
							notion which makes education chiefly a process of acquisition or learning. The race
							has made many discoveries and much progress in the fields of art, science, music,
							philosophy, religion, literature, industry and in the development of social, religious
							and political institutions. It has been the dominant aim of certain educational
							leaders to have each individual master as much of this 
							racial wisdom and as many of these achievements as possible. This is our racial
							heritage, the thing with which each individual must start and to which he may or
							should make his contribution. Education, it has been said, must give him the tools
							necessary for mastering this racial heritage. It must assist him in making a wise
							selection of the part he should master and give him the direction and help needed to
							make the learning efficient and economic. Hence the modern tendency to crowd as much
							of this as possible into our school and college courses.
						We have also in recent years given new meaning and emphasis to the Greek ideal of
							education. We all believe today that the school must in some way make the conditions
							favorable for normal and healthy development. We believe that the school must not only
							not interfere with the process of normal healthy development, but actually stimulate
							it or help bring it about. We also believe that the matter of forming right habits of
							thinking, feeling and action, and acquiring a permanent interest in the things which
							our civilization believes to be most worth while is an important result which should
							be attained by the school. But we have been slowly and surely coming around to an
							ideal, which in a real sense includes most or all of the educational aims that have
							been found valuable in the past. We have come to believe that education must somehow
							give to each individual the help he needs to make a right adjustment, not only to the
							past achievements of the race but to his present environment; to present day society
							and to the work which society is, under present conditions, called upon to do.
						Our present educational ideals and practices have, therefore, been evolved from the
							entire experience of the race with the problem of education. The ideas, which we hold
							today in regard to what should be accomplished by means of education and our public
							schools, represent the best that this long experimentation with the problem of
							education has given us. There was a time when the school emphasized mere acquisition
							and learning; a time when complete normal and healthy development was thought to be
							the chief end of education; a time when education was made chiefly a matter of
							training and discipline; a time when the development of right habits was chiefly
							emphasized; a time when most attention was given to developing in children permanent
							interests in the truth and the things which the world calls beautiful and good; a time
							when we talked most about helping the individual to adjust himself to his environment
							and social or racial heritage. Today we are really combining all these points of view.
							No one longer  believes that mere acquisition or learning
							will suffice or that perfect development is sufficient, or that even learning and
							development combined are adequate. We are not even satisfied when the formation of
							right habits and the acquisition of permanent interest in the beautiful, the true and
							the good are added. The information and knowledge gained, the strength of body and
							mind represented by the perfect development; the habits of efficiency, and interest in
							what the race calls beautiful, true and good, must all be directed toward
								some worthy end. The educated man or woman of today must not only be efficient
							and trained, healthy and strong, but trained for and made willing to
								do his full share of the world's work. The belief has steadily grown that the
							public schools must somehow fit each individual in the state for this sort of social
							service and productive citizenship.
						Vocational education as at present conceived by the leaders in the field means that
							we must train our young people for this sort of social service and useful citizenship.
							It means that we must conserve, by means of education and training, the talents and
							capacities of our boys and girls: (1) By wise vocational guidance; helping them to
							find the kind of occupation or work for which they are best fitted. (2) By more
							sharply directed instruction, provide the kind of training which will fit them most
							efficiently and economically for the work they are to do.
						Vocational education, therefore, means that we must direct our educational work more
							sharply towards some specific end, in the future than we have done in the past. That
							we must give young people a kind of education which will enable them to make a living;
							make them able and willing, through the doing of some useful form of work, to make
							their contribution to society and the state. It means that we have come to regard
							human energy and talents as perhaps the most sacred and important thing in the world
							and have set for ourselves the task of their conservation and cultivation. Vocational
							education is a part of the great movement for "social economy and efficiency."
						A second marked tendency revealed by the history of educational development, when
							viewed as a whole, is the movement towards universality. With the growth of the ideal
							of democracy has come the belief that education must be made universal. We have come
							to feel that a system of public education in a democracy must serve all
								the people of the state, not merely a few classes or groups. The growth of this
							ideal and the shaping of the school system to meet the ideal has been one of the most
							important movements in the  history of education. First
							came the idea that every individual in the state must be reached by the school. The
							practical working out of this ideal gave us our present "open-door" system of public
							school. Quite naturally the work of this system was conducted along traditional lines.
							Its methods and course of study were modeled after the schools which were created to
							administer to a leisure class. Our compulsory education laws and the dropping out of
							school of those who did not intend to prepare for the professions and positions of
							leadership in the so-called higher occupations of life, forced the second prominent
							idea involved in our present ideal of vocational education, namely: that the education
							given must be truly helpful and fit each individual in the state for some useful kind
							of productive work. Vocational education, therefore, means conserving the talents of
								everybody; it means not merely extending the work of the public
							schools so as to reach everybody, but to give to each the opportunity of developing to
							the fullest possible extent his talents and capacities. It means that the public
							schools must provide the kind of training needed to fit each pupil
							for the kind of work which will enable him best to serve himself and contribute the
							largest possible share of useful service to the community and state.
					

					
						2. THE DEVELOPMENT AND EXTENSION OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOL SYSTEM OF INDIANA.

						Both these ideals--the tendency to make education universal and to make the
							instruction given truly helpful and efficient--have had an interesting history in
							Indiana. The Constitution of the State adopted in 1816 provided that: 
								"Whereas knowledge and learning generally diffused through a community being
									essential to the preservation of a free government and spreading the opportunities
									and advantages of education through the various parts of a country being highly
									conducive to this end, it shall be the duty of the general assembly to pass such
									laws as shall be calculated to encourage intellectual, scientific and agricultural
									improvement throughout the state by allowing rewards and immunities for the
									promotion and improvement of all arts, sciences, commerce, manufacturing and
									natural history; and to countenance and encourage the principles of humanity,
									industry and morality." To this end the general assembly was required to "provide
									by law for a general system of  education, ascending
									in regular gradations from township rural schools to a state university, wherein
									tuition shall be gratis and equally free to all."
						These same principles were reaffirmed and endorsed by a vote of the people in 1851,
							when they ratified our present Constitution which contains the following significant
							clause: 
								"Knowledge and learning, generally diffused throughout a community, being
									essential to the preservation of a free government, it shall be the duty of the
									general assembly to encourage by all suitable means, moral, intellectual,
									scientific and agricultural improvement, and to provide by law for a general and
									uniform system of common schools, wherein tuition shall be without charge, and
									equally free to all." (Article 8, Sect. 1).
						One result of this remarkable provision for public education is our present
							"open-door" system of public schools. A system ascending in regular gradation from the
							primary grades in town and township schools to the college and research departments of
							our state universities. All parts of this system are free to every boy and girl in the
							state who have the inclination and ability to pursue the work. No part or division of
							the system is closed to any youth in the state because he is poor or because he
							belongs to a certain class in society, or because he or his parents happen to hold a
							certain religious belief. In accordance with the wishes and plans of the founders of
							the State we have developed in Indiana our present "open-door" system of public
							schools, which represents perhaps our greatest educational achievement to date.
						It must be said that this system of public schools has, in the past, served the
							people of the State well. It has, in fact, met our conditions and needs so well that
							it has rather generally been admired by students of education and imitated by many
							cities and States that wished to improve their systems of public schools. The door to
							the high school and to the college and university and the opportunity to prepare for
							the position of leadership which such training provides has been kept open to all who
							might elect these so-called higher vocations and who would prove themselves capable of
							such training and positions of leadership. But the instruction or training which has
							been provided by our system of public schools has not always been such as fully or
							equally to meet the needs of 
							all classes of people in the State. There has been a constant
							movement in the direction of developing a more efficient scheme of public education;
							one that would meet the true needs of all the people.
						The university end of our system, true to the traditions of the older colleges and
							universities of this country, began by emphasizing those branches or subjects which
							were particularly helpful in preparing for the ministry, or which gave a general basis
							for certain other so-called higher professions. Later the State began to make
							provisions for special training in all lines of technical and professional work where
							skill or training might prove advantageous to the State. Purdue University, which has
							for its object the giving of special instruction in agriculture and in the industrial,
							mechanical and household arts to those preparing for leadership in these various
							fields of work, was made a State institution in 1865. A State Normal School for the
							training of teachers was founded by the same legislative and opened in 1870. The
							number and variety of departments and courses at Indiana University have been
							gradually increased until today the courses offered cover practically every branch of
							knowledge represented by the sciences and humanities. The courses no longer prepare
							primarily for the ministry or give a cultural training adapted to meet the needs of
							the leisure class. A school of education for the study of educational problems and the
							training of leaders in education; a school of medicine; and a school of law have been
							added--professional departments or schools where the youths of the State may get
							special instruction and training in preparation for these several professions. Special
							courses have also been added to prepare for business--journalism, advertising and
							other occupations.
						Not only are the young people of the State offered the opportunity to get instruction
							in these various fields and thereby given the help they need to prepare them for
							leadership in these several professions, but investigations, at the State's expense,
							are being carried on in nearly every field of pure and applied science and the truth
							necessary for further advancement in all these lines slowly ascertained. Furthermore,
							the facts thus discovered by our own and other universities are being carried to the
							people of the entire State and disseminated by means of the extension work. There has,
							therefore, been a constant change taking place in the direction of making our State
							Universities more truly serviceable, not only to their students but to the whole
							State. It may, in fact, be said that the movement for making our universities true
							servants of the State is just beginning.


						

						The development of the high school, has been still more marked during the past fifty
							years. An efficient system of high schools has been developed throughout the State,
							that not only opens the door for every boy and girl in the State to our colleges and
							universities, but their courses of study have been gradually changed to meet the needs
							and varying interests of the youth of the State. The course of study in the average
							high school of the State today more nearly meets the needs of all the students than
							did the simple old-time traditional course with which the high school work in this
							State began. It must be still further extended and changed to meet the vocational
							needs of those who do not go to college to prepare for the professions and other
							occupations requiring such an extended general educational basis.
					

					
						3. THE LATEST STEP IN OUR EDUCATIONAL DEVELOPMENT.

						But our system of public schools as we have developed it thus far is by no means
							perfect or complete. A further step in our educational development has been provided
							for by the passage of our new Vocational Education law. The State, as we have seen,
							has not been content to provide mere general educational opportunities for its
							citizens. It has for a number of years provided special vocational instruction for
							those who desired to prepare for the professions of teaching, of medicine, of
							engineering, and of law. It has not provided vocational instruction for those who must
							work in the shop, in the home or on the farm; only a general educational basis has
							been provided for those who must take up an occupation in these fields of work. The
							new steps to be taken provide for the extension of the work of our public schools in
							such a way as to include departments and schools which seek to provide as definite and
							helpful a vocational training for those who must work in the shop, in the home, and on
							the farm as we are already providing for those who desire to fit themselves for the
							professions of teaching, engineering, medicine or law.
						Three facts in regard to the new steps in our educational development should be kept
							in mind.
						1. That the idea of vocational education as provided for in our new law and as at
							present contemplated by the State Board of Education does not represent a mere fad or
							radical departure from our present educational ideals and practices, but marks the
							culmination of an educational development which has continued through a period of one
							hundred years. The idea of vocational education, as 
							defined above, is not in reality as new for Indiana as some might think. We are merely
							planning to extend our present system of public schools in accordance with the
							principles laid down by the founders of the State and our past ideals and practices.
							This proposed program of extension merely means an attempt to make our present system of public schools more truly democratic by enlarging and
							extending the scope of its work so that it may come more nearly meeting effectively
							and economically the needs of all the people of the State.
						2. A second important fact to bear in mind is that this new program means making a
							decided and important enlargement or extension of the duties and work of our present
							system of public schools. Vocational education as provided for in our new law and as
							at present contemplated does not require overturning any of the work we have been
							doing heretofore, nor does it mean setting up a dual system of education in Indiana.
							It merely means extending our present and past aims in such a way that education in
							this State may be made truly democratic, reaching everybody and meeting the needs of
							all classes of people in the State. While we are, therefore, entering upon a program
							of educational work entirely new and different in
								kind from anything we have thus far undertaken, the proposed enlargement and
							extension is in no wise contradictory or opposed to the things for which our present
							public schools have more or less blindly stood, almost from the beginning.
						3. It is important also to realize that this movement for vocational education marks,
							without doubt, the most important educational movement that has taken place in the
							State since the foundations of our present system of public education were laid in the
							Constitution of 1816.
					

					
						4. NEW PROBLEMS RAISED BY OUR PROPOSED EDUCATIONAL DEVELOPMENT.

						A state-wide program for vocational education, such as we have taken up, raises a
							number of definite problems new and old which must be solved before we can hope to
							have a scheme of public education which will efficiently meet the needs of all the
							people of the State. The following are among the more important problems that must be
							solved before vocational education, in the sense defined above, can become a reality
							in this State:
						1. We have, in the first place, the problem of improving and perfecting the general
							educational work which we have been doing  in our regular
							schools and the problem of determining the best ways of relating the new
							pre-vocational and vocational work to the work we are already doing. We have not yet
							solved in an economic or efficient way the problem of giving the fundamentals of a
							general education--the necessary foundations for all future occupations and work. Our
							new problem here is to perfect the old and relate the new pre-vocational and
							vocational instruction to this foundation work in such a way that the true purpose of
							education will be attained in an economic and efficient way. Specific problems in this
							field are the following:
						(1) Finding out how better to teach the fundamental subjects and how to test or
							measure the results of our teaching in these lines.
						(2) How to correlate the work in the practical arts subjects with the arithmetic,
							English, geography, drawing and history work so as to save time and do each line of
							work better than we did it before.
						2. A second problem which we must solve is to decide what should be accomplished by
							means of the practical arts work in the lower grades where the sexes work together. We
							must work out a course of study which will actually accomplish the things we expect to
							accomplish by means of this industrial and hand work and administer it in an ecomonic
							way in the regular schools.
						3. We must also work out a scheme of pre-vocational instruction for
							the regular schools. We must provide courses that will acquaint our young people with
							the various types of industries or social activities of present-day society and which
							will give them a chance actually to try themselves out, as it were, in several lines
							of work beside the academic, before they are required to make a choice of a vocation
							for which specifically to prepare. I am assuming here that all should and will take up
							some useful form of work in life and that we shall, by means of our public schools,
							provide an education which will fit for whatever occupation the pupil decides to take
							up. This pre-vocational or experimental period would, of course, vary in length with
							different students and would include a study of those subjects which would serve as
							actual "try-out" courses as well as all the basic courses which should be studied
							before the special vocational training is begun. For some lines of work and for some
							students this period of pre-vocational training would be short and might consist of
							but a few lines of work or courses. For others this pre-vocational period might extend
							into  the junior or senior year in college, because the
							period for general education is so much lengthened. One of the most difficult and
							important problems is to develop this pre-vocational work in our regular schools and
							adjust it to the subjects which are designed primarily to develop useful habits of
							thinking or work, or to acquaint the pupils in our regular schools with the past
							achievements of the race.
						4. Another problem which our new educational program in Indiana will require us to
							solve is to give the young people in our schools real, effective educational and
							vocational guidance while they are pursuing their general education. Vocational
							education or training without wise and efficient vocational guidance is wasteful, to
							say the least, and may not warrant the expenditure of large sums of money for the
							special training. Many things in this line can be done before we need to tread on the
							dangerous psychological ground of attempting to tell a boy or girl for what occupation
							he or she is by nature best fitted. This will be discussed more in detail in section B
							below.
						5. We must also provide as efficient and specific a vocational training for the young
							people who propose to work in the shop, in the home, or on the farm as we are already
							providing for those who wish to prepare for the professions of teaching, medicine,
							engineering or law. This will require the establishment of new types of courses and
							schools. (See Special Bulletin, Vocational Series, No. 4.) Free.
						6. We must also provide for the vocational needs of those who desire to finish a high
							school course. This is one of our most urgent and difficult problems.
					

					
						5. WHAT A COMPLETE SCHEME OF VOCATIONAL EDUCATION INCLUDES.

						A complete and efficient scheme for vocational education must provide for at least
							the following classes or groups of individuals:
						1. Those who expect to finish the high school and a part or all of a college course
							and who wish to prepare themselves for the professions or positions of leadership in
							the so-called higher occupations and professions. Our technical and professional
							schools, already developed, are designed to meet the needs of this group. The problem
							here is to make this work more efficient and to make it include scientific
							investigation  and other forms of university work in
							addition to the professional.
						2. It must provide, in the second place, for those who wish to finish a high school
							course but who cannot or do not wish to go on to college or to a higher technical
							school. We shall always have a group of students who wish to continue their general
							education up to this point and at the same time, spend a part or most of their time in
							preparation for their chosen occupation. The needs of this group must be met by some
							continued modification of the high school course.
						3. It must also provide for the vocational needs of those who at fourteen or sixteen
							years of age drop out of our regular schools, either because they must go to work or
							because they cannot get in the schools the kind of training they need to fit them for
							their future life work. The all-day, vocational schools, provided
							for by our new law, are specially designed to meet the needs of this group. This type
							of school is designed to meet the needs of all pupils who feel that they must begin
							specifically to prepare for a wage earning occupation at fourteen, sixteen or eighteen
							years of age.
						4. There is also a large group of young people between fourteen and twenty years of
							age, who have already gone to work, but who have had little or no training for the
							trade or work in which they are employed. There are two groups of these young
							people:
						(a) Those who have started into a skilled occupation which offers some chance for
							growth and future advancement in salary. The needs of this group may be met by the
							trade extension work provided for in our part-time vocational schools. The needs of
							the older pupils and the men and women engaged in skilled occupations may be met by
							the evening vocational classes provided for by our law. This problem of providing
							vocational instruction for the workers already engaged in a skilled occupation, an
							education or training designed to make the workers more productive and efficient in
							their chosen work, is the problem which the Part-time and Evening vocational schools seek to solve.
						(b) Some of the young people who have quit the regular school to go to work are,
							however, not engaged in  skilled occupations or trades.
							They are working at "blind alley" or "dead end" jobs which offer little or no chance
							for future promotion or advancement. The problem here is to help these young people
							find a more promising occupation, and to train them for productive and efficient work
							in a skilled occupation. This is the problem of the general continuation school for
							which no provision has been made in our Indiana law.
						All these groups of students with their varying needs must be provided for and the
							above named problems relating to general and vocational education and vocational
							guidance carefully considered and solved before we can have a complete and efficient
							scheme of public education in Indiana.
					

					
						6. THE SPECIFIC WORK FOR WHICH OUR NEW
								VOCATIONAL EDUCATION LAW PROVIDES.

						Our new Vocational Education law will enable us to meet the vocational needs of all
							or most of the groups of individuals mentioned above and should stimulate us to solve
							all of the problems mentioned. It provides for three distinct lines or types of work,
							each of which is more or less vocational in its intent and character.
						1. It provides, in the first place, for the work of the county agents of agriculture,
							designed to assist the farmers of the State in making their work more economic and
							productive. The entire time of these agents, who may under certain restrictions be
							appointed for each county in the State, is to be devoted to giving a sort of trade
							extension work to actual farmers. This agricultural extension work for adults is
							connected up closely with the boys' and girls' club work conducted by the United
							States Extension Department, Purdue University and the instruction in elementary
							agriculture given in the regular schools. The object of this work is not merely to
							teach the farmers of the State how to become more productive, but to help work out for
							Indiana the whole problem of rural life.
						2. The law provides, in the second place, for the introduction or extension of the
							practical arts work which we had begun to introduce into our regular schools. Under
							the new law instruction in elementary agriculture, "Domestic Science" and the
							industrial arts must be given in all elementary and high schools of the State as a
							part of their regular course of instruction. New emphasis, dignity and direction is,
							therefore, to be given to all manual and industrial  work
							in the regular schools. This will enable us to lay the right sort of foundation for
							the vocational work and will help us better to solve the problem of vocational
							guidance discussed below.
						3. The law provides, in the third place, (and this is the chief provision of the
							law,) for the organization of vocational departments and schools, which will provide
							as definite and as real vocational instruction for the young people in the State who
							wish to prepare for efficient work in the shop, in the home, or on the farm, as we are
							already providing for the young men and women of the State who desire to prepare to
							teach, or to become professional engineers, or to practice medicine or law; that is to
							say, an entirely new type of educational work has been provided for in this law by the
							provisions relating to the establishment of vocational departments and schools. It is
							for this vocational work that the special State aid was provided in order to stimulate
							and encourage local communities to provide vocational training of this sort.
						In its interpretation and administration of the new law the State Board of Education
							has striven from the first to distinguish clearly between these three lines of work
							and to keep clearly in mind the end to be reached by each. It is very important that
							these three lines of work be clearly differentiated and the aims of each understood,
							so that all confusion of purpose and duplication of work may be avoided so far as
							possible from the beginning.
					
				

				
					B. The Problem of Vocational Guidance
					
						1. NEED FOR VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE.1

						A problem of equal importance, if not more fundamental than the problem of vocational
							training, is the problem of giving our youth proper direction and guidance in the
							matter of choosing an occupation which they propose to follow as their life work. We
							need, not only vocational training, but information about the conditions of
							employment; the wages paid; the opportunities offered by the various occupations and
							professions; the kind and amount of training demanded; a knowledge of the special
							qualities of character required for success in these various vocations and the like.
							We need also to determine ways of successfully testing the interests and capacities or
							fitness of our young people for different kinds of work. Much unhappiness and waste of
							time, talents and potential accomplishments result from our present "hit-and-miss"
							method of choosing a life career.
						1Chapter 12 in Weeks'
							People's Schools should be read in connection with this section.

						

						Young people in our schools and out do not realize the importance of choosing a
							permanent occupation and fitting themselves specifically for it. Studies have shown
							that few high school students have decided upon an occupation which they expect to
							follow as their life career. Those who have decided have been compelled to make their
							choice with little or no information about the occupations they propose to follow. Out
							of 531 high schools boys in Grand Rapids, Principal Davis found that only 240, less
							than half, had decided upon their life work. Half this number had no knowledge
							concerning the occupation they intended to follow; 123 out of 240 who had decided,
							frankly confessed that they had no real information concerning the vocation to which
							they looked forward; and only 117 out of the 531, about one out of five, showed any
							sign of an intelligent choice, while only 150 were shaping their school work with an
							eye to the work which they had selected as their permanent occupation.
						Principal Davis' study further showed the importance of a vocational motive. The
							pupils who had a definite vocational aim did a much higher grade of work than those
							who were drifting along thie path of least resistance. Experiments with industrial
							education and other studies have also shown that a vocational aim or life interest
							makes pupils more ambitious and alert. The value of a vocational motive is further
							shown by such facts as the following: "The average unskilled laborer who has simply
							drifted through the lower school grades, with no particular object in view, and has
							gone to work at the first job which offered itself, is at twenty-one years of age
							earning on an average about $10 per week. There is little or no chance for advancement
							after this wage has been reached. The youth who drifts through the graded school and
							finds his way into a skilled trade begins at about $3 per week, and if he is ambitious
							has at the age of twenty-one advanced to about $9 per week. At twenty-two he is, on
							the average, getting about $13.22 per week, with $16 as a possible maximum. But the
							boy who fixes his eye on this same shop while still in school and shapes his education
							accordingly, enters a trade school and remains there until he is nineteen, begins his
							shop work at $12 per week. At twenty-one he is paid $16 and will on the average reach
							$25 per week before his advancement stops. As compared with the first boy the
							vocational motive has, therefore, been worth two and one-half times the weekly income
							for the remainder of his life." This is, of course, barring the possibility that the
							ambitious boys also have more natural ability.


						

						And this is to say nothing about the value, for "social economy," of getting our
							young people into lines of work which are congenial to them and for which they have
							some natural interest or talent. It is a well known fact that because they are
							ignorant of their mental or physical unfitness for certain occupations, many of our
							most promising young people get into uncongenial, spirit-breaking lines of work, some
							practically committing suicide by taking up tasks for which their physical
							organization and health are inadequate. It is impossible to estimate the loss to
							society in potential accomplishments from our failure thus to give proper educational
							direction and vocational guidance to our youth. Merely providing vocational training
							is not enough, for mere vocational training will not keep our young people from
							getting into the wrong job. Neither can it fit a youth for something for which he is
							by nature ill adapted. We need wise and effective vocational guidance and better
							educational direction to conserve fully the productive and serving powers of our young
							people.
						1. We need to give our young people the information concerning the various
							occupations which they need to enable them to make an intelligent choice of their life
							work.
						2. We need to give them an accurate idea of the kind and amount of training that is
							needed and the qualities of character that are required to succeed in the various
							vocations.
						3. We need to impress upon them the importance of selecting a permanent occupation
							and the necessity of preparing specifically for that work.
						4. We must determine, so far as it is possible, the individual interests or
							vocational aptitudes or fitness of our pupils, so that we may give them wise
							educational counsel and right vocational guidance.
						5. We need, finally, to follow this guidance with more sharply directed training
							which will fit them efficiently and economically for the work they expect to do.
						Our problem stated in a word is this: (1) We must first develop by means of general
							education those habits and elements of character which give the necessary basis for
							all occupations and which are needed for a successful life in any vocation. (2) We
							must open the eyes of our pupils to the wide fields of vocational opportunity that lie
							before them, and help them find the occupation for which they should prepare. (3) We
							must provide the means for training each pupil economically and efficiently for the
							work he is to do.
					



					

					
						2. WHAT INDIANA MAY DO BETTER TO SOLVE
								THE PROBLEM OF VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE IN HER SCHOOLS.

						To place the vocational guidance and training work on the right sort of basis in this
							State the following surveys or investigations must be made and the facts made
							available for our young people and those who carry on the vocational guidance and
							training work.
						1. We must first make a careful study of the more fundamental occupations and
							industries to determine the kind of training or sort of technical knowledge and skill
							that is required to meet the needs of a skilled worker in that occupation or trade. We
							must make studies of the type indicated by C. R. Richard's paper "How Shall We Study
							the Industries for the Purpose of Vocational Education?" (Journal Vocational
								Education, January, 1914, p. 159.)
						2. We must, in the second place, study the various vocations and industries with a
							view of ascertaining the facts which the young people need to know to make an
							intelligent choice of their life work. We must make a sort of vocational survey for
							the State, to determine, 
								(a) The various occupations open to boys and girls of the State, ascertaining,
										
										(1) The age of possible entrance to each.
										(2) The sex of the employees.
										(3) The minimum training required for successful entrance.
										(4) The opportunity for training and growth within the occupation.
										(5) Kind and amount of training which must be gotten outside the vocation,
											either before or after entrance.
										(6) Special characteristics--physical and mental qualities--required for
											success.
									
								(b) The special opportunities offered by each occupation or profession,
									determining, 
										(1) The maximum and minimum wages paid.
										(2) The demand for workers.
										(3) Length of day and season.
										(4) Opportunities offered for advancement.
										(5) Risks to life, limb or health.
										(6) Social conditions and opportunities afforded, etc.
									
							

						3. We must, in the third place, determine the best ways and means of discovering the
							vocational aptitude and fitness of children  and young
							people for different occupations or lines of work so that educational direction and
							profitable advice in regard to the choice of an occupation may be given. The following
							things should be done in this field.

						(a) Keep a continuous record of each pupil's success in different types of school
							work; of his dominant interests or talents; i. e., get a vocational index through
							observation of special interests, mental and physical conditions and the pupil's
							experiences with different school subjects.
						(b) Give opportunities for development of any really marked talents in important
							types of social activity, such as music, art, in the field of invention or
							constructive work, in science and practical or academic work.
						(c) Utilize the pre-vocational work as a vocational finding or "try-out" course.
						(d) Have the psychological experts in our state universities work out and verify if
							possible a set of tests that might be used by superintendents and principals in
							detecting the vocational aptitude or fitness of their pupils, i. e., help us get a
							vocational index through specialized tests.

						When it comes to the matter of the schools actually meeting the needs of the pupils
							in the matter of vocational guidance and training, the practical and final phaze of
							the matter, the following things must be prepared for and done:
						1. We must first impress upon the young people in our schools and out the importance
							of selecting wisely a vocation or life work and the necessity of training
								specifically for the work to be done.
						2. We must, in the second place, devise ways and means of properly disseminating
							among our young people the information about the various occupations and professions
							which our survey or study of these vocations has revealed, so that they may be
							apprised of the facts needed to make an intelligent choice of their occupations. This
							may be done in the following ways:

						(a) In connection with the English composition work where the reading of the pupils
							is directed along these lines these various occupations are studied outside of school
							and discussed as a part of the oral composition work. Special written reports are
							prepared on certain occupations and read and discussed in class, the entire study of
							the problem being directed by the teacher in charge. This  plan has been well developed by Principal Jesse Davis and his teachers at Central
							High School, Grand Rapids, Mich.
						(b) An elective course on vocational and educational guidance, one or two semesters
							in length, might be given. This course would have for its purpose (1) Giving to young
							people taking the course a birdseye view of present day industrial conditions. (2)
							Opening their eyes to the possibilities open for the man who prepares himself well for
							some useful work. (3) To give them an idea of what is required for real success in
							different fields of work. (4) To guide each pupil in the matter of making a choice of
							an occupation, for himself.
						The vocational possibilities for the several occupations would have to be determined
							(1) By a study of statistics and the facts revealed by such studies as were indiciated
							above. A number of such studies have already been made. (2) By a study of books
							dealing with existing occupations. (3) By interviews with successful men in the
							occupations and professions studied.
						The elements of character required for success in different occupations might be
							gotten. (1) By a study of biographies of men and women who have attained marked
							success in different occupations. (2) By a study of local men and women who have been
							eminently successful in the occupations studied.
						The individual aptitudes and interests of the members of the class might be
							determined (1) by use of carefully prepared questions covering such points as
							ambition, dominant interests, ability, marked personal characteristics, etc., of the
							pupils. (2) By ascertaining habits and program of work of pupils. The history of their
							activities since entering high school, etc. (3) By psychological tests designed to
							determine a vocational index for the pupil.
						Such a course should, however, not be attempted except by a teacher specially
							interested in the problem and one who has been specially trained for the work. A
							prominent part of the course would be the wise educational direction and guidance
							which the teacher could give each pupil in regard to mapping out for him a plan of
							education and life which the facts previously determined indicated should be followed
							to attain success.


						

						3. The school must also develop and emphasize the pre-vocational work, making it an
							actual vocational finding and "try-out" course for those who take the work.
						4. The school may also provide special vocational advisors or counselors, who have
							been trained for vocational guidance work, whose business it would be to co-ordinate
							and use all the agencies within and without the school available for giving help to
							young people in the matter of directing their education and efforts towards some
							definite life work or career. For this work special training is required.
						5. Finally the school must provide through special departments and schools the type
							of instruction and training that is needed to meet the requirements of the skilled
							worker in the several occupations. This work falls into three divisions or parts. (a)
							Providing vocational training for those who wish to prepare for the several vocations
							in a regular day school. (b) Providing trade extension work in part-time and evening
							classes for those who have already taken up some skilled employment. (c) Helping by
							general continuation school work those who have gone to work but who are engaged in
							juvenile or "dead end" jobs.
						6. To solve the problem of vocational guidance aright we must co-operate to the
							fullest extent with all the agencies which seek to conserve the talents and productive
							capacities of youth, such as:
						(a) State and city bureaus or agencies for the placement, promotion and guidance of
							young workers. (See Bloomfield 's "The School and the Start in Life," U. S.
								Bureau of Education, Bulletin No. 575, 1914.)
						(b) All child labor and many child welfare agencies. There should be a unified attack
							by all these agencies on all the problems which vocational guidance and training
							present. Unfortunately these agencies are at present often working at cross purposes
							because no plan for co-operation has as yet been adopted.
					

					
						3. WHAT THE TEACHERS AND SCHOOLS SHOULD TRY TO ACCOMPLISH THIS YEAR.

						Dr. Kerschensteiner, one of the most careful students of modern education, defines
							the purpose of the public schools of a state and the purpose of education as a
							training for useful citizenship, but for him no one can be a useful citizen who does
							not fulfill some function in the state, i. e., who does not do some kind of work which
							is  directly or indirectly useful to the ultimate aims of
							the community and state. "If any one in possession of bodily and mental health enjoys
							the blessings of the state without in some way or other helping according to his
							ability to further the common aim of the state, he is not only not a useful citizen,
							but he is acting immorally. If any one uses his wealth merely to satisfy his own
							pleasures, he cannot usurp the title of a useful citizen because apart from the
							payment of taxes imposed upon all alike, he does not bring any work to add to the
							common pool of industry to which he really owes the comforts and luxury of life." On
							the other hand all necessary forms of work, even the work of a scavenger, are valuable
							and important for society and the state, and if done well the worker makes his
							contribution. (The Idea of the Industrial School, p. 15.)
						The first and most important demand which society makes upon an individual is that he
							be capable and willing to do his part of the world's work, i. e., to be engaged in
							some vocation by means of which he is able not merely to take care of himself but by
							means of which he makes his contribution to society as a whole. It is, therefore, the
							first duty of the public school to help each individual pupil to choose some useful
							form of work or permanent vocation in the community and to prepare him efficiently and
							economically to do that work.
						The second duty of the school, according to Dr. Kerschensteiner, is to accustom the
							individual to look at his vocation as a duty which he must carry
							out, not merely in the interest of his own material and moral welfare, but in the
							interest of the community and state as a whole, which, gives each individual the
							possibility of carrying out his work and of making his living, protected by the law
							and order of a civilized community.
						The third and greatest duty of the public school is, according to Dr.
							Kerschensteiner, to develop in the pupil, in addition to skill in his chosen vocation
							and desire to contribute, through the doing of that work, his share of service to the
							community and state, an interest in the welfare and advancement of society and the
							state as a whole. To create in the worker the desire to do his work so well that the
							development of the state may be advanced thereby in the direction of the highest moral
							and ethical ideals of a modern state.
						This statement of the purpose of education and of the school is the key note to
							modern educational reform. We have been educating our children too much away from
							their homes, away from their  communities and away from
							work, toward false ideals of culture and leisure.
						One of the first things that we should make sure of in connection with our state
							program for vocational education is to impress upon the minds of the young people in
							our schools the need for selecting a permanent life work and the necessity of preparing themselves efficiently for
							the work to be done. We should make them understand that this is an important duty of
							a good citizen; that it is only in and through the doing of some useful work that they
							may hope to be enabled to take care of themselves and make their contribution to
							society. The young people in our schools need to be made to realize the importance of
							selecting a permanent vocation and the evergrowing necessity of preparing
							specificially for that work. They need to be made to feel much more than they now do,
							that it is in and through the doing, of some useful work that they are enabled not
							only to serve themselves but society as a whole; that their work, no matter how small,
							represents a necessary service to the community. We should appeal to the instinct to
							want to do something worth while, to get them to select and properly prepare for some
							useful form of work.
						This represents a kind of vocational guidance work that all teachers should begin to
							do this year. It must be begun far down in the grades and emphasized in our vocational
							schools, since most pupils drop out of school before the high school is reached. How
							to accomplish this desired result is one of the most immediate problems before us.
					
				

				
					C. The People's School--The Problem of Providing an Efficient
						Scheme of Public Education in a Democracy

					Thus far we have considered what a universal and effective scheme of vocational
						education means and should include, but it is not enough to belive in the efficiency and
						necessity of vocational training or even to see clearly what should be done. Our ideals
						must be realized and our plans carried out if they are to be of pratical worth to the
						State. We should, therefore, consider some of the ways in which this problem has been
						solved or attempted in other countries and states and the suggestions and proposed
						solution to this problem that are made by Miss Weeks in our Reading Circle text.
					The problem of how to provide an efficient scheme of vocational education adequate to
						meet the needs of a modern democracy is  the theme of Miss
						Week's book, "The People's School." The inadequacy of our present system of public
						schools to meet the needs of our people is discussed in Chapters 1 and 2. The need for
						vocational education and some of the cautions that should be observed to make it
						effective and truly helpful are pointed out in Chapters 2, 3 and 4. The rest of the book
						is devoted to a discussion of the kind of instruction that is required to meet the needs
						of our times and to a description of some of the more important foreign and American
						experiments with vocational education, that have been made. This treatment should be
						supplemented with a careful study of the references given on this topic at the close of
						this outline.

					
						1. THE INADEQUACY OF OUR PRESENT SYSTEM OF PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

						Much has been written and said of late about the inefficiency of our public schools
							and there is no doubt some ground for the many criticisms that have been made of their
							work, but it is not so much a question of the inefficiency of work undertaken as the
							limited scope of the work offered. That is to say, the inadequacy of the public
							schools to meet present day needs and their unwillingness or failure to undertake the
							kind of instruction which the public wants given. We have come to feel that a system
							of public education in a democracy must help all the people of the state, not merely a
							few classes or groups; that it should train each individual to do effectively and
							willingly some useful kind of work whereby he will be able to support himself and make
							a contribution to his community and state. We are coming to feel that the only true
							culture is that which comes through work and the love of work, and that a boy or girl
							can in reality be better educated in and through the mastery of an occupation than in
							any other way.
						Important questions raised by Miss Weeks in Chapter 1 are the following:
						1. What factors have contributed in giving us our present one-sided system of
							education, strong in its literary and scientific elements but weak and ineffective in
							vocational aims and results?
						2. Do we, as a nation and state, realize the far reaching effect upon our productive
							industries, upon our commerce and upon the welfare of our country and people as a
							whole, of continuing a scheme of public education which omits or so largely neglects
							the vocational and productive side?


						

						3. How far is this "one-class" system of education responsible for the educational
							"fade away" or early dropping out of school so prevalent in the state and country?
					

					
						2. THE NEED OF INDUSTRIAL AND VOCATIONAL EDUCATION FOR
								THE MASSES (pp. 6-56).

						That our responsibility as a Nation is beginning to be aroused on the matter of
							providing adequate vocational training for the masses is evidenced by the fact that
							seven states, Massachusetts, New York, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Wisconsin,
							Connecticut, and Indiana, have recently committed themselves by state legislation to a
							state-wide program for effective vocational training and that a bill providing
							national aid for the stimulation and encouragement of vocational training in the
							several states is now pending before the national Congress. The following topics
							should be discussed in connection with Chapter 2.
						
							1. The narrowing and deadening effect of modern industrial work and the
								significance of this fact for vocational education (pp. 6-10).
							2. Cause of decay of apprentice system (p. 10).
							3. Will the iron hand of the machine master us? (pp. 10-20). 
									(1) Need for intelligent workers.
									(2) Need for vocational education and trade training for these machine
										specialists.
									(3) Why the whole trade as practiced in the industrial world to-day,
										together with an appreciation of its history and development, should be
										taught.
								
							4. Causes for increase of unemployed (pp. 21-22). 
									(1) Lack of training for some definite form of useful work. Discuss.
									(2) Too many unintelligent specialists who can do but one thing. Discuss.
								
						
					

					
						3. THE IMPORTANCE AND PURPOSE OF OUR PUBLIC SCHOOLS (pp. 24-37).

						
							1. Why did our education become "class education."?
							2. Why did our public schools develop in a way that directed all pupils toward
								the so-called higher occupations and professions?
							3. The inadequacy of our present high schools and graded schools.



							


							4. Why pupils drop out of school (pp. 32-35). See also study by W. F. Book "Why
								Pupils drop out of High Schools," Pedagogical Seminary, Vol XI, 1904, pp.
								204-232.
							5. What specific steps were taken prior to the movement for vocational
								education, to meet the defects of the public schools (pp. 30-31).
							6. Will the present movement for vocational education help?
							7. Discuss, "At present our high schools are shaped almost
								exclusively for one class; Vocational education seeks to provide adequately for all
								classes."
						
					

					
						4. THE SCHOOL FOR THE PLAIN MAN.

						
							1. The demand for an education or training which will fit the plain man for the
								work he must do (pp. 38-42).
							2. Discuss: "Vocational education means that fewer things will
								be studied, but that they will be studied well. It means that each child will get
								its due instead of being fed on an indigestible mixture of what is supposed to be
								good for all alike."
							3. The value in increased wage of vocational and trade training (pp.
								42-46).
							4. Value of vocational or trade training to society and the state (pp.
								46-49).
							5. Need of complementing our child labor laws with effective vocational guidance
								and vocational training (p. 51).
							6. Importance of years between twelve and eighteen for vocational guidance and
								vocational education (pp. 50-55).
							7. Relation of trade education to preservation and development of
								resourcefulness and inventiveness of pupils (pp. 54-56).
							8. Discuss: "Vocational Education will broaden the ability and
								outlook of the industrial worker and conserve and cultivate the rare talent of the
								inventive and ingenious pupil."
						
					

					
						5. TRADE EDUCATION FOR WOMEN--THE PROBLEM OF PROVIDING EFFICIENT VOCATIONAL TRAINING FOR WOMEN AND
								GIRLS (pp. 57-73).

						
							1. Importance of problem (p. 57).
							2. The double problem: Training for industry and for the home.
							3. Should a woman learn her trade as thoroughly as the man? Reasons (pp.
								65-71).


							


							4. Importance of training women and girls for business of homemaking (pp.
								57-66). 
									a. What does science and art of homemaking really include? Is it a highly
										complicated and skilled occupation?
									b. Need of impressing upon young women and girls a respectful attitude
										towards womans' most important occupation, "Homemaking."
								
							5. General effect of business and industrial training on women (pp.
								66-70).
							6. Will vocational education and trade schools for women help to cure the evils
								arising from late marriage and the social evil? (pp. 71-73).
							7. Discuss: "If our young people, including girls, had a more
								worthy ambition and were trained to do some useful work, most of the degrading and
								debasing practices of our city youths would disappear."
						
					

					
						6. VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND
								ORGANIZED LABOR (pp. 91-108).

						
							1. The real attitude of organized labor (p. 91).
							2. Compare and contrast the ideals or aims of the labor unions and those of the
								vocational and trade schools.
							3. The problem of disposing of the product of the vocational schools.
							4. Will vocational education overstock the market of skilled workers?
							5. Will it be a permanent benefit to the worker (pp. 98-100)?
						
					

					
						7. VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND
								SOCIALISM (ch. 8).

						
							1. Answer of vocational education to doctrine of "equal opportunities for all"
								Answer of socialistic philosophy (p. 102).
							2. Will both methods be necessary to make our state and country truly
								democratic, i. e., a place where all will be given the opportunity to develop
								unhindered their full talents and make their contribution to the world?
							3. Marked tendencies toward a more socialistic form of society (p. 104).
							4. What does this tendency toward socialism signify or mean for education,
								vocational and general (pp. 106-7)?
						
					

					

					
						8. VARIOUS TYPES OF SCHOOL ORGANIZATIONS DEVELOPED
								TO MEET THE NEEDS FOR VOCATIONAL TRAINING (pp. 109-166).

						
							1. The French Plan.
								
									(1) Aims to replace the apprenticeship system as a preparation for a
										business or trade.
									(2) The work of the French trade schools (pp. 114-123).
									(3) Results of instruction: 
											a. Wages and productive power of pupil are increased.
											b. Trade training does not really fit for practical life (pp.
												123-4).
											c. Remedies. Compare with work in vocational schools in this country and
												requirements for Indiana vocational schools. (See Indiana Special Bulletin,
												Vocational Series, No. 4.)
										
									
								
							

							2. The German Plan--Supplements the trade practice or
								apprenticeship. 
									(1) German and French plans compared.
									(2) The work of German continuation schools. (See Kerschensteiner's lectures
										on vocational education. Commercial Club of Chicago, 1911.)
									(3) The Berlin plan of continuation school (pp.
										126-137).
									(4) The Munich plan of providing an efficient scheme of
										public education (pp. 137-143). See especially Kerschensteiner "Three Lectures
										on Vocational Training" Chicago Commercial Club, Chicago, 1911.
								
							

							3. Plan of Switzerland to provide vocational training (pp.
								143-147). 
									(1) Chief features and merits of Swiss system. Compulsory plans and complete
										co-operation of labor, capital, legislative bodies and educational
										authorities.
									(2) Outline and description of Swiss plan.
								
							

							4. More Important types of American experiments (pp. 149-165).
									
									(1) Experiments with general industrial and pre-vocational education. (See
										Leavitts' "Examples of Industrial Education," Ginn & Co., Chicago, 1912.) In
										this connection study Chapters 9 and 10--Weeks.)


									

									(2) Experiments with continuation school work.--(Study Wisconsin system and
										Massachusetts report on "Needs and Possibilities of Part-Time Education.
										Massachusetts State of Education, Boston, 1913.)
									(3) Experiments with vocational education proper. Compare laws and plans in
										vogue in Massachusetts, New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania with the plan
										proposed for Indiana. Send to various state authorities for special bulletins
										and compare with plan outlined in Indiana Bulletins, Vocational Series, No.
										4.
								
							
						
					

					
						9. TYPE OF TRADE SCHOOL NEEDED IN THE UNITED STATES.

						"The idea of social welfare," says Miss Weeks, "is the touchstone whereby trade
							education should be tested. Not because agricultural industry and homemaking need
							competent workers; not because vocational training will quicken the artistic
							sensibilities of our people; not because present schools do not interest our children;
							not because man has a right to self-support; not because criminals will find in the
							trade schools their salvation; not because women receive from it mental and industrial
							freedom; not because the unionist sees therein an advantage for his order and the
							socialist believes it a step nearer the millenium--but because from the deeply
							underlying harmony of these several interests, there is one mighty common interest for
							all mankind which vocational education seeks, Namely: Social economy and betterment.
							The problem of vocational training is more profound than merely preparing men and
							women to work. It aims also to inculcate a working ideal that will gradually transform
							industrial practices until labor, no longer cramped and brutalizing, becomes a means
							for the realization of the noblest human possibilities; until the old words of the
							Benedictine Rule take on their fullest meaning, and to work is truly to pray." ("The
							People's School" pp. 192-3.)
						This idea of vocational education guides Miss Weeks in all the suggestions which she
							makes on the "Type of Vocational School Needed in America." The following points are
							taken up in the chapter and should be further discussed: 
								1. The history of trade education in the United States and the inadequacy of
									the work thus far done (pp. 167-188).
								2. Fundamental questions to be answered before a safe plan can be adopted (pp.
									169-170).


								

								3. Importance of having results of vocational schools tested by those skilled
									in the vocations for which we prepare and those who employ the graduates of the
									school.
								4. What should be the specific and dominant aim of the vocational schools or
									departments established (p. 172.)
								5. Things to be emphasized in the course of study. Proper balance between shop
									practice, vocational and related academic subjects in the course of study of a
									vocational school (pp. 173-176).
								6. Necessary and desirable qualifications of teachers for vocational schools
									(pp. 176-178).
								7. Proper preparation of vocational teachers (p. 178).
								8. The general continuation school and its relation to trade
									continuation (part-time) and vocational schools.
							
						

						This chapter should be studied in connection with the Indiana Bulletin "Vocational
							Education in Indiana," Vocational Series, No. 4, and if possible with the plans for
							vocational education in vogue in other countries and states.
					
				

				
					D. The Problem of the Rural School

					The problem of providing an effective scheme of general and vocational education for
						the small village and rural community is discussed in Cubberley's "The Rural School" and
						in Chapter VI of Miss Weeks' "The People's School," and in the last two chapters of
						Prof. Hart's book, "Educational Resources of Village and Rural Communities." In each
						case the various attempts that have been made to solve this all important problem are
						discussed from somewhat different angles and each author makes some constructive
						suggestions for its solution. The first topic treated by these authors is:
					
						1. The importance of the problem of providing efficient general and vocational
							education for the rural communities: 
								(a) One-third of the population of the United States lives in the country.
									Look up proportion for Indiana.
								(b) All life and industry depend upon the products of the farm, hence the
									importance of developing an intelligent and productive agricultural class.
								(c) The problem of education in the state cannot be solved if this phase is
									neglected.
								(d) References: Weeks, pp. 75-78, Cubberley, Editors' introduction and pp.
									1-2. Hart, pp. 213-216.
							


						

						2. For statement of the difficulty of the problems see Cubberly pp. 1-16,
							especially pp. 12-14.
						3. Various attempts that have been made to improve the rural and village school.
								
								(a) By changing the course of study and improving the character of the
									instruction. 
										(1) See Cubberly, pp. 4-6. Study also the constructive suggestions made by
											Miss Weeks, pp. 75-83; Hart, pp. 216-235. Use also references given by Hart,
											if especially interested in this topic.
										(2) What kind of instruction should be given in the village and rural
											schools. (See Hart.)
									
								(b) By improving the teacher, securing better trained teachers and making
									their positions more profitable and secure. 
										(1) See Cubberly, pp. 3-4.
									
								(c) Securing better trustees. (See Cubberly pp. 6-8.)
								(d) By certain legislative enactments. (See Cubberly pp. 8-10.)
								(e) By connecting up the problem of education in the village and rural
									community more closely with the rural life problems. 
										(1) See Cubberly pp. 10-11, also Miss Carney's "Country Life and the
											Country School," Rowe, Peterson & Co., Chicago, 1912.
									
								(f) By the movement for consolidated schools which makes it possible to get
									more money, better organization and hence better buildings, better equipment,
									better trained teachers and better supervision. 
										(1) Study Cubberly pp. 16-72; Hart pp. 244-275 and references on
											consolidation given in Hart pp. 274-277.
									
								
							
						
						4. Movement for improving rural education in other countries, particularly Canada,
							France, Germany, Switzerland, and Norway and Sweden. 
								(a) See Miss Weeks, pp. 86-90; Foght, H. W. "Educational System of Rural
									Denmark." U. S. Bureau of Education, Bulletin No. 58, 1913 (Free). Friend, L. L.
									"The Folk High School of Denmark." U. S. Bureau, Ed., Bulletin No. 5, 1914.
							
						
					
				


				

				
					E. Determining and Utilizing the Educational Resources of
						Village and Rural Communities.

					
						1. NEED FOR TAKING FULL ACCOUNT OF THE EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES OF THE SCHOOL
								COMMUNITY.

						Everyone will agree that the teacher, principal or superintendent of a school should
							become an active leavening part of the life, hope and purpose of his school community; that he should be a leader in the community
							in all movements which have for their purpose social improvement and betterment; that
							he should cooperate with the educational factors outside the school and use all the
							educational resources of his school community to bring about the changes and
							improvements which education seeks to make. It is also clear that many of the
							educational resources of the village and rural school communities are at present
							largely neglected and wasted because teachers and educators do not know of their
							existence or do not know how to use them. All educational resources outside the school
							need to be conserved and applied, by educational leaders, to the problem of education
							in that community. There should be co-operation, a one-ness of purpose or aim among
							all the factors of a community which educate.
					

					
						2. HOW THE TEACHER OR SUPERINTENDENT MUST PROCEED
							TO MAKE HIMSELF AN EFFICIENT EDUCATIONAL LEADER IN HIS COMMUNITY.


						1. The first necessary step to prepare oneself for this larger educational service in
							the community is to realize that the public school work proper is only one of the
							educational factors in that community; that the school instruction is only a part of
							the educational work done in that community; that the community is itself an important
							educational factor. (Read Hart, ch. 1, "The Community as Educator.")
						2. The second necessary step is carefully to determine the educational factors and
							resources of one's particular school community so that he may know all the forces in
							the community which help to make for social enlightenment and human betterment. To
							make himself a true leader in his community and a co-partner with the social and
							industrial factors which also educate, the teacher or superintendent must determine or
							know, 
							
								(1) The physical resources of his school community; learn how to use,
									supplement or co-operate with these factors in the business of education.
								(2) He must ascertain the human resources of his school community and devise
									ways and means of conserving them and utilizing them in his educational
									work.
								(3) He must know the economic and industrial activities of his school
									community and utilize these in the business of education. These should be studied
									in connection with the pre-vocational work in agriculturae, domestic science and
									industrial arts.
								(4) He should know the local history and political life of his school
									community and utilize this knowledge in his educational work.
								(5) The conditions as to health, sanitation and hygiene must be determined and
									the proper adjustment made, because health is fundamental for all educational
									work.
								(6) The teacher should also know the conditions and facts in regard to the
									practices and methods of recreation used by the young and older people of his
									school community, for without recreation, play and rest, the highest efficiency
									cannot be attained.
								(7) He must determine to what extent the people of his community are applying
									the results of culture and art to the problems of homemaking and community
									improvement, i.e., beautifying their homes and premises and improving the
									community as a whole by building good roads and making it a more desirable place
									in which to live.
								(8) He must determine the status or conditions of the moral, social and
									religious life of the school community and cooperate with the factors and
									institutions especially created by society for the betterment of social conditions
									in these regards.
								(9) The teacher and educator must also take into account the moral, religious
									and social attitude, or vocational deficiency in his school community and
									co-operate with the proper forces and institutions to remedy this defect.
								(10) He must determine the facts in regard to the intellectual life of the
									community and help bring this up to the proper standard for social and industrial
									development and efficiency.
							
						


						

						After these factors or educational resources have been determined they should be
							carefully studied in the light of recent literature on the subject and present day
							methods of dealing with educational problems. A complete understanding of the economic
							and social conditions of one's school community is necessary before a teacher or
							superintendent can work out the educational problem in that community in the most
							efficient way.
						4. The teacher and superintendent must, in the fourth place, co-operate with and use all the educational factors of the school
							community, i e., put himself in harmony with all the forces in the community that make
							for social enlightenment and progress. He must make himself a co-partner with the
							community and utilize, to the fullest possible extent, the educational factors which
							are constantly operating outside the school to bring about the same results which he
							is consciously trying to bring about. Formerly the community and home performed the
							most important part of the educational work. The times have changed. More and more
							must the educational work once performed by the home and community now be done by the
							school. It is most important, therefore, that the school recognize all the educational
							resources of the community and by means" of a more perfect partnership carry on the
							business of education in a way that will be economic and effective.
					

					
						3. HOW TO MAKE A SURVEY OF THE EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES
								OF THE SCHOOL COMMUNITY.

						We have seen that the first thing necessary to co-operate with the community in the
							business of education is to determine the facts in regard to the educational resources
							of that community, then to study these facts and co-operate with the educational
							forces outside the school in bringing about the results which education seeks to
							attain. The all important question for each teacher and superintendent is how can
							these facts be determined for my school community; what can be done
							in my city, community or county, (1) to ascertain the conditions and
							facts, (2) better to utilize the educational factors which actually exist in the
							community. The problem cannot be solved all at once and should be taken up piecemeal.
							Each teacher or superintendent can make a beginning of determining the educational
							resources of his community. He may determine the physical resources of the community,
							or the human resources of the community, or determine and study the economic and
							industrial  activities of the school community or the
							conditions as to health and hygiene. Three problems in regard to each of these topics
							should be raised. (1) What are the facts. (2) To study these facts in the light of the
							best literature on the subject and in relation to present day educational theories and
							practices. (3) To use this knowledge and information better to carry on the
							educational work of your school.
					

					
						4. HOW TO PROCEED IN MAKING A SURVEY.

						Suggestions and helps as to procedure in making such a survey may be gotten from the
							chapter in the text on the problem taken up. Some of the facts might be gathered by
							the children, but if they are to be of value they must be accurate. Not the least
							valuable result would be the help that would come to the teacher from having done an
							original piece of work. It is hoped that each teacher in the state will work out at
							least one problem for his community along the lines suggested in the text. For making
							such a study the following suggestions will be found helpful and should be observed:
								
								1. Decide upon a particular problem to take up.
								2. Decide upon the method you propose to follow in getting your facts. (Study
									questions and suggestions given in the corresponding chapter of the text.)
								3. Work out a definite and economic way of recording or keeping the facts
									collected. This will save much time and confusion.
								4. Keep actual facts and any discussion of or opinion about them separate. The actual facts and your interpretation of
									them must never be confused or thrown together.
								5. Keep your problem or purpose clearly in mind so you will not go astray or
									get lost in a mass of details.
								6. Be systematic in your work and accurate in every detail.
								7. After you have secured the facts pertaining to your problem, arrange and
									group them to see what they mean.
								8. State briefly and clearly what your facts show in regard to the particular
									group of resources studied.
								9. Study and investigate these results with a view of improving the work in
									your school.
							
						
					
				


				

				
					F. What the Movement for Vocational Education Means for the
						Teaching Profession

					This description of the problems and program of work which our new step in educational
						development has placed before the public schools of Indiana should not be concluded
						without saying a word about the effect which this development is likely to have on the
						teaching profession of the state.
					It is quite clear that every movement in educational and social development which
						succeeds, is making individuals and groups of individuals more efficient, i. e.,
						differentiates them more and more into specialized callings or lines of endeavor and
						work for which specialized skill or preparation is demanded. The older we, as a Nation,
						grow and the more we develop and progress, the more prominent and universal will become
						the operation of this law. There was a time when the Jack-of-all-trades flourished. That
						time is forever past. There was a time when one man made a whole pair of boots or shoes.
						This time is also past. The general store has been replaced by Wanamaker and Marshall
						Field and the modern department store. The same sort of thing has happened in the
						industrial and professional worlds.
					Civilized society is becoming more and more like a huge orchestra where everybody plays
						a different instrument--does a different kind of work. The effect of the whole depends
						upon how well each individual member plays his part and upon the co-operation of the
						group. The total effect will also be helped if each member is permitted to play the
						instrument (do the work) for which he is best fitted by nature and training. This
						specialization and co-operation is one of the most important laws of life. Or to change
						the figure, civilized society is like a great living organism composed of a variety of
						organs and cells differing in function and appearance, organs and cells that are in fact
						made different, in part at least, by performing different functions. So with organized
						society. As members of this social organization we all differ in capacities and talents.
						We are really more different than we are alike. There are many different kinds of work
						to be done. Much depends upon whether we find our own group of workers and place. As
						civilization advances it will become more and more necessary that each individual shall
						find his particular place in the world. More and more important that each individual be
						permitted to do the kind of work which he can do best and for which he has been
						specially  trained. As this development proceeds, each
						individual (those who survive) will be better protected and given an opportunity to do
						the work for which he is by nature and training fitted. We are just beginning to
						understand this all important law of life and to recognize the fact that civilization
						must fail and true democracy remain forever a dream of the social philosopher if this
						law is not in some measure obeyed; if the individuals and groups of individuals of the
						community and state do not adapt themselves to this law and make themselves efficient
						for definite lines of service and are not made willing to sacrifice, at times, their
						individual interests to the service and good of the whole group.
					As teachers and educational workers, we are a part of this great social machine, and
						are bound, as are all the rest, by the invincible laws which control it. We have a
						definite work to do; a duty to perform. We must fit ourselves fully for that specific
						task. We must make ourselves thoroughly efficient for the particular work we are to do
						if we are to become productive members of society and contribute aught to its
						advancement. Nay, we are more than a mere part of this social machine. The teacher and
						the educator should be the very heart and soul of this machine, for it is the problem of
						education to bring about the social and human betterment needed to make our community
						and state what it ought to become. Efficiency for the teacher and special preparation
						for the particular work which he is to do is, therefore, of first
						importance.
					Vocational ednecation in Indiana, which aims to bring about greater individual and
						social efficiency by increasing the productive and serving powers of each citizen of the
						state, therefore, means new opportunities for the teachers of the state; but it also
						means new responsibilities. It means that we have the opportunity of leading in the
						great movement for the conservation of human energy and talents. But it also means that
						we must make ourselves efficient and equal to our task. There never was a time in the
						history of the world when the efficient man or woman in every field was so much in
						demand as now. Education and the teaching profession is no exception. As teachers and
						educational workers we should take renewed courage and hope, even in the face of the
						added task which has been placed upon the public schools and upon us. When the workers
						in any field render expert service in that field, society usually recognizes in due
						measure the expert services rendered.
				
			
		
		

			

			
				G. Selected Bibliography on Vocational Education*

				
					1. THE PROBLEM OF VOCATIONAL EDUCATION.
						
							1. Bulletin: Vocational Education in Indiana. Department Public Instruction,
								Vocational Bulletin No. 6, 1913. Free.
							2. Bulletin: The Problem of Vocational Education. Introduction to Tentative
								Course of Study in Practical Arts Subjects for Public Schools of Indiana. Vocational
								Bulletin No. 2. Free.
							3. Book, W. F. New Problems Presented by State Program for Vocational Education.
								A report of State Conference of teachers of Practical Arts Subjects in various
								Colleges and Normal Schools of State. Indiana School Journal, August, 1914.
							4. Book, W. F. Address before County Superintendents. Section State Teachers
								Association, Dec., 1913. Report of Association pp. 56. Also Educational Journal,
								February, 1914.
							5. Carlton, F. T. Educational and Industrial Evolution, Macmillan, 1908,
								$1.25.
							6. Davenport, E. Education for Efficiency. D. C. Heath & Co., 1911.
								Especially pp. 1-100.
							7. Dean, A. D. The Worker and the State. Century, 1910. $1.20.
							8. Garber, J. P. Annals of Educational Progress. Lippincott & Co., 1911,
								$1.25. Especially pp. 25-76.
							*9. Kerschensteiner Georg. The Idea of
								the Industrial School. Macmillan, 1913, pp. 1-45 and 76-87 especially. 50.
							*10. Kerschensteiner, Georg. Education
								for Citizenship. Rand, McNally Co., 1911. 75.
							11. Leak, A. N. Industrial Education. Houghton, Miflin & Co., 1913. $1.25.
								Especially pp. 1-40.
							12. Leavitt, F. N. Examples of Industrial Education. Ginn & Co., 1912.
								$1.25. Especially pp. 1-74.
							13. Monroe, J. P. New Demands in Education. Doubleday, Page & Co. 1912.
								$1.25.
							14. Redfield, W. E. New Industrial Day. Century, 1912. $1.25.
						
						*In the preparation of this
							bibliography, those books only have been selected which it was thought would give
							teachers the best help in getting a clear understanding of the topics covered by the
							outline.
						
						
							*15. Snedden, David. The Problem of Vocational Education. Houghton, Miffin &
								Co., Boston, 33. (Same as Reading Circle Text.)
							*16. Snedden, David. Problems of Educational Readjustment. Houghton, Miffin.
								& Co., Boston, 1913. Chapters 1-3 and 8-10.
							17. Smith, W. H. All the Children of all the People. The Macmillan Co., 1912.
								$1.50.
						
					
				

				
					2. THE PROBLEM OF VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE.
						
							*1. Bloomfield, Meyer. The Vocational Guidance of Youth. Houghton, Mifflin &
								Co., Boston, 1911. 35.
							2. Bloomfield, Meyer. The School and the Start in Life. United States Bureau of
								Education Bulletin, 1914, No. 4. Whole No. 575. Washington, D. C.
							*3. Parsons, Frank. Choosing a Vocation. Houghton, Mifflin & Co., Boston,
								1909.
							4. Puffer, J. Adams. Vocational Guidance. Rand, McNally & Co., Chicago,
								1913. (See especially Chapters 1, 2 and 3 and 17.)
							5. Vocational Guidance. Paper Read at Organization Meeting of Vocational
								Guidance Association, Grand Rapids, October, 1913. U. S. Bureau Education Bulletin,
								1914, No. 14.
							6. Weeks, R. M. The People's School. Houghton, Mifflin & Co., Boston, 1912.
								60;. Ch. 12. (Same as Reading Circle Text.)
							7. Report Vocational Guidance Conference, Grand Rapids, Mich., October 21-24,
								1913. U. S. Bureau Education Bulletin, 1914, No. 14. Whole No. 587. Free.
						
					
				

				
					3. THE PROBLEM OF THE PEOPLE'S SCHOOL.
						
							1. Bulletin: Vocational Education in Indiana. Department of Public Instruction
								Bulletin, Vocational Series No. 4, March 1914. (Free.)
							2. Cooley, E. G. Vocational Education In Europe. McClurg, Chicago, 1912.
								$1.00.
							3. Indiana Report of Commission on Industrial and Agricultural Education. 1912.
								(Out of print.)
							4. Kerschensteiner, Georg. Three Lectures on Vocational Education. Chicago
								Commercial Club, 1911.


							

							5. Kerschensteiner, Georg. The Trade Continuation Schools of Munich. Nat.
								Society for the Promotion of Industrial Education, New York, Bulletin No. 14.
							6. National Society for the Promotion of Industrial Education. "A Descriptive
								List of Trade and Industrial Schools in United States." Bulletin No. 11, New
								York.
							7. Report National Commission on Vocational Education, Washington, D. C., 1914.
								(Free.)
							8. Report on Vocational Training in Chicago and other Cities. City Club,
								Chicago, 1912. $1.50.
							9. Report of Royal Commission on Industrial Training and Technical Education,
								1913. E. H. Parmelee, Ottawa, Can.
							10. Wisconsin Report of Commission upon Plans for Extension of Industrial and
								Agricultural Training, 1911. Democrat Printing Co., Madjison, Wis.
						
					
				

				
					4. THE PROBLEM OF THE RURAL
							SCHOOL.
						
							1. Cubberly, E. P. The Improvement of the Rural School. Houghton, Mifflin &
								Co., Boston, 1913. 35. (Same as Reading Circle Text.)
							2. Carney, Mabel. Country Life and the Country School Row, Peterson & Co.,
								Chicago, 1912. (Contains copious lists of references.)
							3. Foght, H. W. The American Rural School. The Macmillan Co., New York.
							4. Foght, H. W. Educational System of Rural Denmark. U.S. Bureau of Education
								Bulletin, 1913, No. 58.
							5. Kern, O. G. Among Country Schools. Ginn & Co., New York, 1906.
						
					
				

			
		





	


