
   ----CITATION---- 
        Coulter, John Merle, 1851-1928. Morphology of spermatophytes. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2012).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAC0870
   ----FULL TEXT----
        
    
      
      
        MORPHOLOGY OF SPERMATOPHYTES
        
      
      
      
        OTHER BOTANICAL WORKS
          BY DR. JOHN M. COULTER.
        
          PLANT RELATIONS. 
              A First Book of Botany. 12mo. Cloth, $1.10.
            
          PLANT STRUCTURES. 
              A Second Book of Botany 12mo. Cloth, $1.20.
            
          PLANT STUDIES. 
              An Elementary Botany. 12mo. Cloth, $1.25.
            
          PLANTS. 
              A Text-Book of Botany. 12mo. Cloth, $1.80.
            
        
        D. APPLETON AND COMPANY,
          NEW YORK.
      
      
      
        
          MORPHOLOGY OF SPERMATOPHYTES
        
        
          BY
          
          JOHN M. COULTER, PH. D.
          
          HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT OF BOTANY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO
        
        
        
          AND
          
          CHARLES J. CHAMBERLAIN, PH. D.
          
          INSTRUCTOR IN BOTANY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO
        
        
          NEW YORK
          
          D. APPLETON AND COMPANY
          
          1901
        
      
      
      
        VERSO
        COPYRIGHT, 1901, BY D. APPLETON
          AND COMPANY.
      
      
      
        PREFACE
        THIS book has grown out of a course of lectures, accompanied by
          laboratory work, given for several successive years. The course presupposes at least a
          year of work in general morphology, and is intended to prepare the student for research in
          the morphology of Seed-plants. As a consequence, the book brings together and organizes
          the very voluminous and scattered literature of the subject, points out and discusses the
          problems, seeks to unify a very confusing terminology, and at the same time contributes no
          small amount of original observation and illustration.
        In developing the subject it has been thought best to present first the facts connected
          with the different groups, organizing these facts in as systematic and definite a way as
          possible, so that the condition of knowledge in reference to any feature may stand out
          clearly. Following the presentation of the separate great groups, their comparative
          morphology, history, and phylogeny are discussed.
        At the end of each chapter which discusses a great group, a list of the works cited is
          given. This bibliography is not intended to be exhaustive, but to include those works
          which contain definite contributions of fact or of opinion. At the close of the volume
          there will be found a fairly complete bibliography of the important papers.
        While in the very nature of things the great body of material in a book of this kind must
          be derived from the work of numerous observers, yet most of the ground has been traversed
             several times by the authors and their students, certain
          gaps have been filled up, and an original point of view has been established. So far as
          possible, the illustrations are original, and some of the series are more complete than
          any heretofore published; but illustrations have been reproduced whenever they seem
          necessary to a full understanding of the subject. Those which have been copied are fully
          credited, and may thus be distinguished from those which are published for the first time
          in this book. References to figures in the text have not been multiplied, upon the
          assumption that those who use the book are in the habit of consulting figures.
        One of the chief perplexities in connection with the literature of the subject is the
          confusing and often misleading terminology employed by various authors. Not only have
          different names been applied to a single morphological structure, but frequently the same
          name has been used for very different structures. This has resulted not only in a
          confusion of terms, but in greatly obscuring a very simple and consistent morphology. We
          have attempted to introduce uniformity into the terminology, not by proposing new names,
          but by selecting from those already current the ones which seem the most appropriate. It
          is to be hoped that this will aid to a better understanding of morphological
          equivalents.
        It may be well to call attention to the fact that we close the history of the sporophyte
          with the appearance of the spore mother cell, rather than with the appearance of the
          spore. This has seemed to us to be the best defined line of demarcation between the two
          generations, both on account of the reduction division, and because preceding this
          division the mother cell passes into a more or less prolonged resting condition. It
          certainly represents the greatest break in the continuity of the life history. In this
          sense, therefore, the sporophyte ends with the appearance of the spore mother cell, and
          later the gametophyte begins with the reduction division.
        
        No attempt has been made to present the anatomy of Seed-plants. This subject is too vast,
          and too far removed from our general purpose to be included. The few anatomical details
          which have been given are simply those which have to do with the general structure of
          organs, and which are essential to any morphological discussion.
        The authors appreciate the fact that, in a certain sense, a book of this nature is out of
          date as soon as it has left the press, especially as it deals with groups which are being
          investigated at the present time with remarkable activity. Doubtless, within a few months
          papers will appear which would have been of great service; but in so large a group this is
          likely to remain always true, and the authors have felt that a concise summary of
          knowledge at any stage of progress is useful in stimulating and guiding further
          research.
        JOHN M. COULTER. CHARLES J. CHAMBERLAIN.
        THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO,
          January, 1901.
      
      
      
      
        CONTENTS
        
          PART I.—GYMNOSPERMS
          I.—CYCADALES
            1
          
              The vegetative organs
                2
              
                
                  The stem
                    2
                  The leaf
                    7
                  The root
                    9
                
              The spore-producing members
                10
              
                
                  The microsporangium
                    10
                  The megasporangium
                    14
                
              The gametophytes
                19
              
                
                  The female gametophyte
                    19
                  The male gametophyte
                    23
                  Fertilization
                    28
                
              The embryo
                30
            
          II.—GINKGOALES
            35
          
            
              The vegetative organs
                35
              
                
                  The stem
                    35
                  The leaf
                    36
                  The root
                    38
                
              The spore-producing members
                38
              
                
                  The microsporangium
                    38
                  The megasporangium
                    38
                
              The gametophytes
                41
              
                
                  The female gametophyte
                    41
                  The male gametophyte
                    42
                  Fertilization
                    45
                
              The embryo
                48
            
          III.—CONIFERALES
            51
          
            
              The vegetative organs
                51
              
                
                  The stem
                    51
                  The leaf
                    60
                  The root
                    63
                
              The spore-producing members
                64
              
                
                  The microsporangium
                    64
                  The megasporangium
                    67
                
              The gametophytes
                81
              
                
                  The female gametophyte
                    81
                  The male gametophyte
                    89
                  Fertilization
                    95
                
              The embryo
                98
              The classification of conifers
                106
            
          
          IV.—GNETALES
            112
          
            
              The vegetative organs
                113
              
                
                  The stem
                    116
                  The leaf
                    118
                  The root
                    118
                
              The spore-producing members
                119
              
                
                  The microsporangium
                    119
                  The megasporangium
                    120
                
              The gametophytes
                124
              
                
                  The female gametophyte
                    124
                  The male gametophyte
                    127
                  Fertilization
                    129
                
              The embryo
                130
            
          V.—FOSSIL GYMNOSPERMS
            134
          
            
              Cordaitales
                135
              Bennettitales
                142
              Cycadales
                150
              Ginkgoales
                150
              Coniferales
                151
            
          VI.—COMPARATIVE MORPHOLOGY
                OF GYMNOSPERMS
            153
          
            
              The vegetative organs
                153
              
                
                  The stem
                    153
                  The leaf
                    155
                  The root
                    155
                
              The spore-producing members
                156
              
                
                  The microsporangium
                    156
                  The megasporangium
                    157
                
              The gametophytes
                160
              
                
                  The female gametophyte
                    160
                  The male gametophyte
                    162
                  Fertilization
                    164
                
              The embryo
                165
            
          VII.—THE PHYLOGENY OF
                GYMNOSPERMS
            168
          VIII.—GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION
                OF GYMNOSPERMS
            175
          
            
              Cycadales
                175
              Ginkgoales
                176
              Coniferales
                176
              Gnetales
                178
            
          SUMMARY OF LITERATURE CITED
            180
          APPENDIX
            185
        
      
    
    
      
      
        MORPHOLOGY OF SPERMATOPHYTES PART I.—GYMNOSPERMS
        
          CHAPTER I
            CYCADALES
          IN the present flora nine genera of Cycads are recognized,
            containing between seventy-five and one hundred species, and distributed about equally
            between the oriental and occidental tropics. The group is of special interest on account
            of its fern-like characters, but knowledge of the most critical structures is confined
            to comparatively few genera and species. With the establishment of laboratories in
            regions where Cycads are indigenous, and with the increased attention paid to their
            cultivation, there is every reason to hope that the group will soon be fairly well
            understood, so far as its living representatives are concerned. The following account
            merely summarizes the meager information at present available, which may or may not find
            general application in the group.
          The gross character which serves to distinguish Cycads from other Gymnosperm groups is
            the combination of unbranched stems with a terminal rosette of comparatively few large
            and branched leaves, which gives to the columnar forms the habit of tree ferns or palms
            (Figs. 1, 2, 3, 4). The most remarkable recondite character of the group, a character
            which it shares with Ginkgo, is the occurrence of peculiar
            multiciliate male cells, demonstrated as yet only for Cycas, Zamia, and Stangeria, but probably common to the whole
            group.
          
          
            I. THE VEGETATIVE ORGANS
            
              THE STEM
              The columnar or tuberous stems, with no distinguishable internodes, are usually
                completely invested by an armor of thick 
                  FIG. 1.—Cycas revoluta, showing in
                    the center an erect cluster of young foliage leaves, and below a widely
                    spreading set of older leaves. Between the two a set of scale leaves may be
                    seen.—After COULTER.
                 leaf bases and scale leaves, some tuberous stems resembling huge cones.
                Probably the greatest height is attained by species  of
                  Cycas, some of which carry the crown of leaves upon a columnar
                trunk 3 to 4 meters, or sometimes even 12 meters high, while the Australian Cycas media reaches a height of over 20 meters; but, in the majority
                of cases, the stem is short and stocky, assuming the so-called tuberous form. In
                fact, all the stems when young have the tuberous form, and the difference between
                the two types consists in the one retaining this form and the other becoming
                columnar. Branched forms are rare in nature, but seem to be more common in
                cultivation. We are informed that wild plants are apt to branch after they reach a
                certain age.
              
                FIG. 2.—Cycas media in the middle and
                  at the right; Cycas Normanbyana at the left.—After F. VON MÜLLER.
              
              Until recently, the accounts of the histology of the stem have been derived in the
                main from species of Cycas, Encephalartos, and
                  Stangeria. A historical résumé of the subject
                was published by Worsdell21
                in connection with his work upon Macrozamia, the substance of
                which is as follows: In 1829 Brongniart1 gave some account of the anatomy of the stem of Cycas revoluta, refuting the idea that Cycadean stems are similar to those
                of Monocotyledons, and pointing out their true Gymnosperm character. He claimed,
                however, that there is no phloem, and that xylem is the only vascular tissue
                developed. In 1832 Von Mohl2
                published an account of the stem anatomy of Cycas and two species
                of Encephalartos (referred at that time to Zamia, and known as Z. latifolia and Z.
                  horrida). In one of the species of Encephalartos (his Z. latifolia, but an African Encephalartos not to
                be confused with Z. latifolia Loddiges) he discovered the meshwork
                of vascular bundles in the pith, and the fact that single bundles traverse the pith
                rays and enter the cortex. In 1841 Miquel3
                 published his great monograph of the group, and
                incidentally touched upon the stem anatomy of several genera. In 1861 Mettenius4 published an account of
                Cycadean stems which has remained until recently the chief source of information
                about them. He included Cycas revoluta, Encephalartos
                  horrida, Dioon edule, and Zamia muricata,
                finding in the last two genera none of the secondary cortical bundles characteristic
                of the first two. In 1885 Costantin and Morot15 published an account of the structure of the pericycle of
                  Cycas Siamensis, claiming that in it the cortical cambium zones
                have their origin. In 1890 Solms-Laubach17 published an account of Stangeria
                paradoxa, in which the vascular bundles are traced from the peduncles to their
                juncture with the stem system, and no evidence of secondary cortical bundles is
                found. In 1891 Strasburger18
                brought together the knowledge of stem anatomy with reference to Cycas, but did not include other genera. The most important contributions to
                the knowledge of stem anatomy since are those of Worsdell21,30 on Macrozamia and Bowenia, and that of Scott24 on the peduncles of
                Cycads.
              
                FIG. 3.—Stangeria paradoxa, staminate
                  plant; about one fifteenth natural size.—From Warming-Potter's Handbook of
                  Systematic Botany.
              
              The structure common to all of the stems investigated is a large pith surrounded by
                a thick cylinder of open collateral bundles and broad pith rays, and a conspicuous
                cortical region. The primary bundles are common, and the primary cambium is either
                short-lived or somewhat persistent. In Zamia, Dioon, and Stangeria no further structures occur to
                interfere with the resemblance to an ordinary coniferous or dicotyledonous stem, and
                secondary thickening, whatever it may amount to, is effected by the primary
                cambium.
              A conspicuous feature of the structure of Cycas, 
                Encephalartos, Macrozamia, and Bowenia, however, is the development of a series of secondary cortical
                cauline bundles by successive secondary cambium cylinders. In these cases the
                primary cambium 
                  FIG. 4.—Encephalartos Altensteinii;
                    leaves 6 meters long and 50 centimeters broad; strobilus 45 centimeters long and
                    12.5 centimeters in diameter.—From a photograph taken in Lincoln Park,
                    Chicago.
                 is short-lived, and a series of secondary cambiums is organized in the
                cortex, the first giving rise to a vascular cylinder as prominent as the primary
                one, the second developing much smaller and  more widely
                separated bundles, and so with diminishing constructive power until the outermost
                cylinder is recognized only by the appearance of a small bundle here and there. In
                  Cycas these cortical bundles are concentric, as are the bundles
                of the peduncles and leaves of Cycas, Stangeria,
                  Bowenia, and some species of Zamia and Ceratozamia. Moreover, in Macrozamia and Bowenia Worsdell discovered what may be called a tertiary cambium,
                developed between the successive secondary cambiums, and giving rise to small
                intermediate bundles with reversed orientation—that is, with xylem directed
                toward the xylem of the next outer bundles. This suggests that the original
                structure of all the cortical bundles was concentric, and that in the layers of
                concentric bundles the meristem of the inner portion of each bundle became gradually
                less functional, until in most cases the concentric bundles have become
                collateral.
              Such facts as the cortical concentric bundles of Cycas, the
                concentric bundles in the peduncles and leaves of several genera, the evidence of
                incomplete concentric bundles in Macrozamia and Bowenia, all point to an ancient stem type in which layers of concentric
                bundles were developed. It is important to note, as Scott24 has suggested, that such a stem type is
                indicated in several large extinct groups, as Lyginodendreae, Poroxyleae,
                Protopityeae, and Medulloseae, representing the so-called Cycadofilices, and that
                the living Cycads constitute only a special group of what was once an extensive
                alliance. In Cycas, probably the most primitive of the living
                genera, the concentric character of the cortical bundles is retained; in Macrozamia and Bowenia remnants of the inner part
                of the concentric bundles exist; while in still other genera vestiges of the
                primitive organization once common to the stem also survive only in peduncles. The
                fact that the concentric bundle is a prominent feature of the Pteridophytes, and
                that it is the prevailing one in Paleozoic vascular plants, emphasizes the general
                ancient as well as Pteridophyte character of the Cycads.
              In Encephalartos and Macrozamia a system of
                cauline bundles is also developed in the pith, forming a dense network traversing
                the pith in every direction, each bundle attended by a mucilage canal in contact
                with the phloem. Certain smaller bundles pass out through the pith rays, the xylem
                and phloem strands joining the corresponding elements of the primary  cylinder, and the mucilage canals passing on to join the
                cortical canal system.
              The xylem elements are of the general Gymnosperm character. They are all tracheids,
                the first formed being spiral in type and the later scalariform; while in the
                tracheids of the secondary xylem the characteristic bordered pits appear, or a
                mixture of scalariform and reticulate thickenings may be developed, as in Zamia. Mucilage ducts are common in all organs, and the pith is also
                remarkably rich in stored starch.
            
            
              THE LEAF
              The alternation of rosettes of scale leaves and foliage leaves near the apex of the
                stem is a conspicuous feature. According to Goebel, every year or every other year a
                rosette of foliage leaves is expanded, in the center of which is a terminal bud 
                  FIG. 5.—Cross section of a leaf of Cycas
                      revoluta.
                 invested by numerous scale leaves under whose protection a new rosette of
                foliage leaves slowly develops (Fig. 1). In the greenhouse material we have examined
                there are no such regular periods of unfolding. The alternation is still more
                striking when sporophylls are included, scale leaves, foliage leaves, and
                sporophylls being the order of succession.
              The scale leaves are brown and dry. The foliage leaves are pinnate and leathery,
                and generally develop expanded, but in 
                Cycas the pinnæ are circinate, and in Zamia, Ceratozamia, and Stangeria the leaf axis is
                circinate. In general, two leaf traces connect the vascular systems of the stem and
                leaf, sometimes bending and passing almost horizontally through the cortex,
                sometimes, as found by Worsdell21 in Macrozamia, passing tangentially close beneath the
                surface for some distance and gradually turning inward to the stem system. Upon
                entering the leaf the two bundles break up variously, and the vein system is
                characterized by the comparatively small amount of anastomosing and the frequency of
                dichotomy, as in Encephalartos.
              The anatomical structure of the leaves is quite similar to that of the broad leaves
                of certain Conifers (Fig. 5). The epidermis is strongly cuticularized, and the
                stomata occur only on the lower surface, the guard cells being deeply sunken. The
                leathery texture is due to a strong hypodermal development of thick-walled, almost
                fibrous cells, beneath which is the display of mesophyll. A distinct palisade region
                is organized, but the colorless middle region, in which the veins run, is peculiar.
                It consists of cells elongated transversely to the leaf axis and parallel with the
                surface, and large intercellular spaces, and may represent the "transfusion tissue"
                of Von Mohl. The absence of chlorophyll and the elongation of the cells has
                suggested a conducting region to compensate for lack of the branching and
                anastomosing of veins. The same structure occurs among Conifers in Sciadopitys and other broad-leaved forms; while in the needle leaves the
                regular transfusion tissue, more definitely differentiated, is within the bundle
                sheath.
            
            
              THE ROOT
              The primary root continues as a tap root, but numerous branches and secondary roots
                extend in every direction, the latter often extending upward and reaching the
                surface. An interesting phenomenon connected with these upward rising root branches,
                which often spread in feltlike masses about the base of the stem in species of Cycas, Macrozamia, Ceratozamia,
                  Dioon, and other genera, is the occurrence upon them, usually at
                the tip, of short "coral-like" branches, usually in clusters (Fig. 6). These
                peculiar branches have been called "tubercles," but they do not have the structure
                of the bodies which receive that name in certain Leguminosae, being much modified
                   and tuberclelike rootlets. The apparently dichotomous
                branching of these bodies has led to the general statement that the secondary roots
                of Cycads branch dichotomously, but the dichotomy even in this case is only
                apparent, for the true apex, although completely checked in activity, is evident
                between the branches. In 1872 Reinke6 announced the presence of an endophytic alga in these tuberclelike
                rootlets, which he referred to Anabaena, and in 1894 Schneider19 published an account which
                gave much fuller details. From a recent paper by A. C. Life,31 the following facts are obtained.
              
                FIG. 6.—The so-called "root tubercles" of Cycas revoluta; about natural size.—After LIFE.
              
              
                FIG. 7.—Cross section of a "root tubercle" of Cycas revoluta, showing the algal zone.—After LIFE.
              
              It appears that the soil about the roots is full of low algal and fungous forms,
                and these forms are found also thickly clothing the roots. At the very inception of
                a branch bacterioid forms effect an entrance, and are found in abundance in the
                cells of the apical region. Presumably through their activity excrescent growth
                begins, and a definite zone of cortical cells is disorganized, resulting in a
                cortical chamber about midway in the cortex (Fig. 7). Upon the surface numerous
                lenticel-like openings are developed, and connect with the cortical chamber, which
                soon becomes filled with Nostoc
                 forms. That the form is Anabaena,
                and that there is but a single species, are both doubtful statements. The cortical
                cells adjacent to the chamber send out papillate prolongations into it, giving in
                cross section the appearance of cells radially elongated.
              That the Algae are not the inciting cause of the excrescent growth is apparent from
                the fact that it begins before the Algae enter, and also from the fact that in some
                of the tuberclelike rootlets Algae do not occur. The relations existing between the
                fungous and algal elements without and within the plant, and the root system, with
                its response in excrescent growth, lenticels, cortical chamber, and internal
                cortical papillæ, must be very complex.
              The root cap is said by De Bary13 to arise by the splitting off of the outer layers of the periblem which
                covers the meristematic region, there being no true calyptrogen or dermatogen. This
                character is asserted by De Bary to be common to all Gymnosperms, in which they
                differ decidedly from Angiosperms.
            
          
          
            II. THE SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS
            
              THE MICROSPORANGIUM
              Cycads are dioecious, and the staminate strobilus in Cycas, at
                least, is terminal; but its true position in the other genera, although apparently
                terminal, remains in doubt. Strobili may occur singly or several together, and in
                the latter case some at least are certainly lateral. The numerous sporophylls are
                arranged in a close spiral (Figs. 8, 9).
              The sporophylls are persistent, often becoming very hard, and compared with those
                of other groups are remarkably large. In certain genera, as Cycas,
                  Macrozamia, Ceratozamia, Stangeria, etc., they have the form of ordinary heavy scales. The horizontal
                portion is narrowed at the insertion and broadens outward, bearing beneath the very
                numerous sporangia, sometimes as many as one thousand; while it is continued into a
                more or less vertically expanded and sterile terminal region, which is usually hairy
                without. In other genera, as Zamia, the horizontal and vertical
                portions of the sporophylls become more distinctly differentiated, the former
                becoming a slender stalk, the latter a peltate expansion beneath which the sporangia
                are clustered, as in Equisetum. The sporangia are scattered,  or they may occur in definite groups of two to five,
                which may be called sori, as in Cycas, Stangeria, and Zamia (Fig. 9).
              The first full account of the development of the microsporangium was published by
                  Treub11 in 1881, who
                investigated especially Zamia muricata. The latest investigation
                is that of Stangeria paradoxa by Lang,23 who has confirmed Treub's results in a
                general way, and has cleared up certain points which were doubtful.
              
                FIG.8.—Zamia muricata: A, staminate strobilus, two thirds natural size; B,
                  transverse section of A; C, single peltate
                  stamen showing attachment of sporangia; D, upper part of ovulate
                  strobilus, two thirds natural size; E, transverse section of D; F, longitudinal section of a ripe
                  seed.—After KARSTEN.
              
              The first indication of a sporangium is the differentiation of a hypodermal plate
                of cells (four in Stangeria), which constitutes the archesporium
                (Fig. 10). This archesporium has been homologized with the hypodermal plate of cells
                which appears in the development of the microsporangia of heterosporous
                Pteridophytes. It should be remembered, however, that the periblem always gives rise
                to the archesporium, and that this region, in the absence of a dermatogen, is
                superficial in the Pteridophytes. It would seem to follow, therefore, that a true
                homology would regard the archesporium as superficial in Pteridophytes and
                hypodermal in Spermatophytes. In presenting Treub's results for Zamia, in which the archesporium is spoken of as a hypodermal group of
                cells, Goebel16 remarks that
                "there is without doubt a unicellular archesporium." In Stangeria,
                however, Lang was unable to trace the plate of four cells to a single one, and a
                one-celled archesporium for the microsporangia of Cycads still remains to be proved.
                Each cell of the archesporial plate divides by a periclinal wall into a tabular
                outer and a larger inner cell (Fig. 10). The outer daughter plate is sterile, and
                there is no evidence that it contributes to the sporogenous tissue, as in some
                Pteridophytes. It is  commonly spoken of as the
                "primary tapetum," but since it does not always give rise to the tapetum it would
                seem better to refer to it as primary wall cells of the
                sporangium. By continued 
                  FIG. 9.—Microsporophylls of Cycads: A,
                      Cycas circinalis; a, entire sporophyll, showing sporangia on under
                    surface; b, four groups of sporangia; c,
                    same as b, after the pollen has been shed. B,
                      Zamia integrifolia; a, entire sporophyll; b and c, clusters of sporangia.—Ab and Ac after BLUME, the other illustrations after
                      RICHARD.
                 periclinal divisions a wall consisting of three to six layers (Stangeria) of cells is organized beneath the epidermis.
              The larger cells of the inner daughter plate of the first division of the
                archesporial cells are the primary sporogenous cells (Fig. 10),
                which by division organize a large sporogenous mass. Lang states that in Stangeria, after a considerable mass of sporogenous cells is formed,
                the tapetum is organized by the sporogenous tissue, either by cutting off peripheral
                tabular cells or by direct conversion of the peripheral cells. If this be true, the
                functional tapetum is derived from sporogenous rather than wall tissue. The tapetal
                cells are distinguished in the usual way by their size and deeply staining contents,
                and in a single layer completely invest the sporogenous mass. The tapetum persists
                as a distinct layer, but its walls disappear, and its nuclei often fragment. In its
                development two of the adjacent wall layers are disorganized and appear as a thin
                band about it, contributing of their material to the tapetum, and in this sense
                functioning as a tapetum.
              With the complete organization of the tapetum division in the sporogenous tissue
                ceases, and the cells become mother cells. Tapetal work, which seems to be merely
                the contribution of  nutrition to functioning mother
                cells by those which are adjacent, whether they be morphologically wall cells,
                sporogenous cells, or even other mother cells, in Cycads is participated in also by
                some of the mother cells, especially those next to the distinctly organized tapetal
                layer. The functional mother cells become isolated, and with their complete
                organization the history of the sporophyte ends, the mother cells entering upon that
                more or less prolonged resting period preparatory to the reduction division and the
                beginning of the gametophyte.
              The sporangia dehisce by means of a slit which extends from the base along the side
                away from the sporophyll and ends in a peculiar group of cells at the apex, whose
                morphological 
                  FIG. 10.—Stangeria paradoxa, showing
                    development of microsporangium: A, section showing two of the
                    four cells forming the archesporial plate; B, each cell of the
                    plate has divided into an inner primary sporogenous cell (shaded) and an outer
                    primary wall cell; C, a more advanced stage; D, a still more advanced stage, showing the tapetum (shaded) and the
                    sporogenous cells (s); E, a mature
                    sporangium containing microspores, showing the tapetum (t) and
                    the crushed cells of the wall (w): A-D, x
                    266; E, x 66.—After LANG.
                 significance is in question. The arrangement of thin and thick walled
                regions in the sporangium wall, and the mechanism of dehiscence, are said to be
                essentially as found in Angiopteris.
              
              It is of interest to note that numerous stomata are found on the sporangium wall of
                  Ceratozamia, Encephalartos, and Stangeria, and doubtless in other genera. They are found on the wall which
                is opposite to the slit of dehiscence—that is, toward the sporophyll. Stomata
                also occur upon pollen sacs of certain Angiosperms, but so far as recorded not upon
                the sporangia of Pteridophytes.
              The development of the sporangia, their large output of spores, their arrangement
                in sori, their several-layered wall, and their dehiscence, are all characters
                suggestive of Marattiaceae; while the chief resemblance to Angiosperms is found in
                the hypodermal archesporium.
            
            
              THE MEGASPORANGIUM
              In most cases a definite ovulate strobilus is organized, which is terminal in Cycas, and possibly so in the other genera (Figs. 11, 12, 13). In
                  Cycas the axis of the strobilus continues 
                  FIG 11.—Cycas revoluta, ovulate
                    strobilus.—From photograph taken in Lincoln Park, Chicago.
                 growth after the seeds have been formed, produces foliage leaves, and
                finally organizes another strobilus. In all other cases, including the staminate
                strobilus of Cycas, a strobilus stops the growth of the axis. The
                size of the ovulate strobilus  of Cycads is worthy of
                note. In the parks of Chicago we obtained a strobilus of Dioon
                  edule which measured 30 centimeters in height and 20 centimeters in diameter;
                and one of Cycas revoluta which measured 50 centimeters in height,
                and about the same in diameter.
              
                FIG. 12.—Dioon edule, ovulate
                  strobilus; surface view; x ⅓.—From photograph taken in Lincoln Park,
                  Chicago.
              
              In Cycas the sporophylls resemble the foliage leaves in general
                form (Fig. 14), the strobilus appearing as a rosette of much smaller and yellowish
                leaves. An interesting transition may be traced from the leaflike sporophyll of Cycas revoluta to such specialized ones as those of Zamia or Ceratozamia (Figs. 14, 15, 16). In the
                sporophylls of Cycas revoluta the upper pinned are prominent, but
                the lowest ones, usually three on each side, are replaced by sporangia. In Cycas circinalis the upper sterile pinnæ are much reduced; while in
                  Cycas Normanbyana the terminal portion of the sporophyll is
                merely toothed, the lowest pair of teeth being replaced by sporangia. In Dioon and Encephalartos the sterile portion is
                still leaflike, but it is entire, and a pair of sporangia occupy a basal position;
                while in Zamia and Ceratozamia the sterile tip
                has become a peltate expansion, and beneath it is the pair of sporangia.
              Investigations in reference to the development of the megasporangium have been
                incidental to a study of the embryo sac structures. Important among these
                contributions have been those of Warming8,9 on
                  Cycas in 1877 and 1879; of Treub11,14 on Ceratozamia and Zamia
                in 1881 and 1884; and most recently of Lang29 on Stangeria paradoxa. The authors have
                also had the privilege of looking over material of Zamia kindly
                supplied by Mr. H. J. Webber. From these accounts, and from personal observation,
                the general facts seem to be as follows:
              
              The first indication of a megasporangium is the differentiation of a group of
                sporogenous cells immediately beneath the epidermis. It is not a hypodermal plate,
                as in the microsporangium, but a hypodermal mass of considerable extent. Whether
                this group represents the archesporium, or whether it can be traced back to a
                few-celled or even to a one-celled archesporium, is still in doubt. Our impression
                is that there is a many-celled archesporium. Following the differentiation of
                sporogenous tissue, the exterior sterile cells begin to divide rapidly, organizing
                the large sterile apical region of the nucellus. About this there develops a very
                thick integument with a long and narrow micropyle.
              By means of this development of the exterior sterile tissue the sporogenous tissue
                becomes deeply placed in the nucellus, 
                  FIG. 13.—Dioon edule, sectional view
                    of strobilus represented in Fig. 12.
                 appearing almost at its very base. In the sporogenous tissue usually one
                centrally placed cell shows its selection for functioning by enlarging at the
                expense of adjacent cells. From its subsequent behavior it seems that this enlarging
                cell is the  mother cell, which closes the history of
                the sporophyte in this direction, and later through a reduction division begins the
                gametophyte generation.
              Lang observed in Stangeria that about this mother cell and its
                product a persistent layer of the sporogenous tissue 
                  FIG. 14.—Cycas revoluta, ovulate
                    sporophyll; one half natural size.—From photograph taken in Washington
                    Park, Chicago.
                
                
                  FIG. 15.—Dioon edule, ovulate
                    sporophylls from strobilus shown in Fig. 12; one half natural size.
                 organizes, apparently functioning as a tapetum. Whether a definite layer
                be organized or not, the adjacent cells continue to contribute nutrition to the
                mother cell and its functioning spore.
              During these changes in the sporogenous tissue, the apex of the nucellus develops a
                more or less prominent beaklike process which projects into the micropyle (Fig. 17).
                The cell walls in this beak region become firm, and the whole structure forms a
                persistent cap, very noticeable in Cycads, in Ginkgo, and in such
                fossil forms as the Cordaitales and Bennettitales. Within this firm beak the pollen
                chamber is organized, which may be narrow or broad, but in any event is able to
                contain numerous pollen grains, one or two dozen having been observed in a single
                pollen chamber of Zamia.
              
              Between the base of the beak and the wall of the embryo sac the nucellar tissue is
                loose, and at the time of the development 
                  FIG. 16.—Ovulate sporophylls of various Cycads: A, Cycas revoluta; B, Cycas circinalis; C, Cycas Normanbyana; D,
                      Dioon edule; E, Encephalartos Preissii; F, Zamia integrifolia; G, Ceratozamia
                      Mexicana.—A, after SACHS; C, after F. VON MÜLLER;
                      E, after MIQUEL; F,
                    after RICHARD; B, D, G, drawn for ENGLER and PRANTL'S Nat. Pflanzenfam., from
                    which the entire plate is taken.
                 of the pollen tubes this whole region of the nucellus disorganizes,
                leaving more or less of a cavity between the pollen chamber and the embryo sac. Into
                this cavity numerous pollen tubes are often seen dangling from the pollen chamber
                (Fig. 18), a 
                  FIG. 17.—Stangeria paradoxa,
                    longitudinal section of ovule, x 7: g, embryo sac containing
                    endosperm; s, layer of "sporogenous tissue" around the embryo
                    sac; p, pollen chamber.—After LANG.
                
                
                  FIG. 18.—Zamia integrifolia;
                    longitudinal section of upper end of nucellus, showing pollen tubes growing down
                    into the archegonial chamber: pt, pollen tubes; pc, pollen chamber; pg, remnant of pollen
                    grain.—After WEBBER.
                 fact especially evident when one lifts off the caplike nucellar beak,
                which from the disorganization of the tissue beneath becomes quite loose.
            
          
          
          
            III. THE GAMETOPHYTES
            
              THE FEMALE GAMETOPHYTE
              The gametophyte generation begins with the reduction division of the enlarged
                mother cell which lies deeply imbedded in the nucellus and surrounded by more or
                less sporogenous tissue which does not function as such. According to Treub11 and Lang,29 in Ceratozamia and Stangeria the transverse division of the mother cell results in a
                row of three cells (Fig. 19), which may be called potential
                  megaspores, the lowest of which becomes the functional megaspore. Whether
                this is true of all Cycads or not remains to be seen. The selected megaspore
                enlarges rapidly at the expense of the two functionless megaspores, disorganizing
                them as well as a varying amount of adjacent tissue. The outer wall of the megaspore
                is said to become cutinized in Cycas, and this may be true of
                other genera as well. In any event, it suggests derivation from forms in which the
                spores are discharged.
              
                FIG. 19.—Development of the megaspore: A,
                    Stangeria paradoxa, showing the functional megaspore enlarging at the
                  expense of two functionless megaspores, x 250; B, Ceratozamia
                    longifolia, showing the three potential megaspores, the lowest beginning to
                  enlarge, x 266.—A, after LANG; B, after TREUB.
              
              The germination of the megaspore and the development of the female gametophyte was
                first published in any detail by Warming,8,9
                Cycas circinalis being the form studied. Additional incidental
                testimony has been given by Treub,11 by Ikeno28 in his
                study of Cycas revoluta, and by Lang29 in his study of Stangeria
                  paradoxa. It is often stated in a general way that the development of the
                endosperm resembles that in Selaginella and Isoetes, but since our knowledge of the development in these forms has been
                obtained by putting together fragments of information, such a statement does not
                represent any very exact knowledge. Unpublished results obtained by Miss F. M. Lyon
                with Selaginella show that something more than inference from
                fragments is needed. So far  as the information goes,
                the sequence of events seems to be as follows:
              The nucleus of the megaspore divides, and free nuclear division continues until a
                number of nuclei are formed, all of the divisions being simultaneous, as evidenced
                by the fact that all the nuclei in the embryo sac show the same karyokinetic phase.
                Early in these divisions the free nuclei pass to the wall of the sac and become
                imbedded in a parietal cytoplasmic layer, in which position the subsequent free
                nuclear divisions are effected. This was the earliest stage of the endosperm
                observed by Ikeno, who traced the subsequent stages in considerable detail. As the
                nuclei continue to divide, walls begin to appear, and a parietal tissue is organized
                which gradually develops into and fills up the central cavity of the embryo sac. In
                this advance of tissue into the central region of the sac Ikeno confirms the
                statement of Mlle. Sokolowa10
                in reference to the development of endosperm in various Conifers, that the endosperm
                cells which are growing into the cavity of the sac have no walls on the inner side.
                During the progress of endosperm development the embryo sac continues to enlarge,
                encroaching extensively upon the surrounding nucellar tissue. Warming reports that
                in the case of Cycas circinalis, if fertilization does not occur,
                the endosperm continues to grow, protrudes through the micropyle, and being thus
                exposed to light develops chlorophyll.
              The development of the archegonium has been traced in great detail by Ikeno28 in Cycas
                  revoluta, and in the main confirms the more general accounts of previous
                observers. His results are as follows: Soon after pollination (about July 1st in
                Japan), two to six (mostly three, sometimes eight or more) peripheral cells toward
                the micropyle become distinguishable from their fellows by their greater size and
                less deeply staining contents, and are the archegonium initials (Fig. 20, A, a), a condition which lasts but a few days. The second period of
                development extends from the appearance of a periclinal wall in the initial cell to
                the cutting off of the ventral canal cell, and lasts over three months. By means of
                the periclinal wall the initial cell is divided into an outer primary
                  neck cell and an inner central cell (Fig. 20,
                  B). The former divides once by an anticlinal wall, forming a two-celled neck,
                as in Ginkgo. In 
                Cycas circinalis Treub11 once or twice saw a transverse division of one of the neck
                cells.
              The central cell is the only remnant of the "axial row" of the lower Archegoniates,
                true neck canal cells having been eliminated from the history of the archegonium.
                The great 
                  FIG. 20.—Cycas revoluta, development
                    of archegonium: A, upper part of endosperm, showing an
                    archegonium initial (a); B, young
                    archegonium, showing neck cell and central cell; C, a portion
                    of the layer of jacket cells surrounding the central cell, showing the
                    cytoplasmic connections; D, two cells of the jacket layer,
                    showing the passage of nuclear material into the central cell; E,
                      F, G, successive stages in the mitosis concerned in cutting off the
                    ventral canal cell: A-C, x 200; D-G, x about
                    500.—After IKENO.
                 enlargement of the central cell and of its nucleus, during the three
                months of organization, received special attention from Ikeno, who explains the
                source of the large supply of nutritive material needed. About the central cell the
                adjacent endosperm cells are organized into a definite jacketlike layer (Fig.  20, C, D). These cells have dense
                cytoplasm and larger nuclei, but the very thick cellulose wall toward the central
                cell is pierced by pores through which cytoplasmic threads connect with the
                cytoplasm of the central cell. This continuity of cytoplasm between the jacket cells
                and the central cell in Cycads was demonstrated by Goroschankin,12 and is confirmed by Ikeno. In connection
                with his work on the embryogeny of Cycas circinalis, Treub11,14 noted the heavy and pitted wall bounding
                the central cell, and really demonstrated the continuity of the cytoplasm through
                it. Before the archegonium has reached its full development the nuclei of the jacket
                cells show a delicate chromatin network, but after a time they become homogeneous,
                showing no differentiated structure except the nucleolus. The contents of the jacket
                cells, nuclei and all, now pass through the pores into the central cell, which thus
                receives an abundant supply of nutritive material (Fig. 20, C, D).
                The nucleus of the central cell, at first very small, grows during the three months
                until it reaches the great size of 75 to 120μ in diameter. At first it has a finely
                granular chromatin network, but suddenly condenses, just as the nuclei of the wall
                cells, and shows no nuclear structure excepting the nucleolus. Ikeno calls attention
                to the fact that this process of nutrition recalls that of many animals, in which it
                has been proved that dissolved nutrient material passes from the follicle cells to
                the egg.
              The third period in the preparation of the archegonium consists of the formation of
                the ventral canal cell, which takes place at the end of September, immediately
                before fertilization, and lasts for a very short time. The central cell thrusts a
                beaklike process between the neck cells, a spindle is organized at once, and the
                small ventral canal cell is cut off rapidly, but for a long time is distinguishable
                as a cap resting upon the ventral cell. After the cutting off of the ventral canal
                cell the nucleus of the large ventral cell passes to the central region of the
                organizing egg.
              It is of interest to note that the occurrence of a ventral canal cell in Cycads
                remained in doubt until its demonstration by Ikeno20 in 1896 in Cycas
                  revoluta, confirmed in 1897 by Webber27 for Zamia integrifolia. Strasburger7 in 1876 observed such a cell
                in Cycas sphaerica; Warming8 described it in 1877 in Ceratozamia
                robusta, but two years later9 withdrew his  conclusion; Treub14 in 1884 stated positively
                that there is no such cell in Cycas circinalis. Until Ikeno's
                demonstration in 1896, therefore, the absence of such a cell in the Cycads was
                generally accepted.
              It is important to note that the development of a group of archegonia checks the
                growth of the vegetative tissue of the gametophyte in that region, and the adjacent
                regions continuing to grow, the archegonial region is left at the bottom of a
                pit-like depression, which may be called the archegonial chamber,
                or "endosperm cavity," as Warming has called it. This chamber is full of liquid
                during fertilization, and at the bottom of it the necks of the archegonia open (Fig.
                18). Occasionally two of these chambers have been observed, each with its group of
                archegonia.
            
            
              THE MALE GAMETOPHYTE
              The male gametophyte begins with the reduction division of the spore mother cell,
                which seems to have received no special attention in Cycads. 
                  FIG. 21.—Zamia muricata; successive
                    stages in the development of the microspores: A and B, x 596; C, x 466.—After TREUB.
                 The organization of the tetrad by successive division, accompanied by a
                peculiar chambering of the mother cell, has been described in detail by Juranyi5 for Ceratozamia
                  longifolia, and by Treub11 for Zamia muricata (Fig. 21). With the appearance of
                the nuclear plate in the first division, a ring of thickening develops upon the
                outer surface of the wall of the mother cell in the plane of the plate. Proceeding
                from this ring of thickening, a heavy wall develops between the two daughter cells.
                Juranyi thought that the nuclear plate disappears, and that the heavy wall is formed
                by growth at the free inner edge of the ring. Treub dissents from this view, and,
                although he could not demonstrate the fact on account of the abundant starch grains,
                thinks that the nuclear plate persists and gradually thickens, the thickening
                proceeding from the peripheral ring toward the center. The latter view seems to be
                the more reasonable one. The two  daughter cells divide
                in the usual way, and heavy walls are again formed. Within this heavy four-celled
                and often lobed case the microspores are organized.
              The first comparatively full account of the germination of the microspore seems to
                have been that of Juranyi5
                for Ceratozamia longifolia. In 1896, in a preliminary paper,20
                
                  FIG. 22.—Cycas revoluta, development
                    of the ciliated male cell: A, male gametophyte of three cells,
                    vegetative or "prothallial" cell (p), generative cell, and
                    tube cell (t), x 500; B, the generative cell
                      (a) rounded off, x 200; C, the generative
                    cell (a) showing division of nucleus into stalk and body
                    nuclei, x 500; D, first appearance of blepharoplasts in
                    enlarging body cell (b), and diminishing stalk nucleus (s), x 500; E, body cell (b)
                    shortly before division, showing well-developed blepharoplasts (c), x 750; F, the two male cells resulting from the
                    division of the body cell, showing the beaked nuclei, x 200; G, H,
                      I, later stages in the development of the ciliated male cell, x
                    200.—After IKENO.
                 followed by the full paper28 in 1898, Ikeno presented a detailed account for Cycas
                  revoluta; while in 1897 Webber25,26,27 published his
                results for Zamia integrifolia. One of the authors has also
                examined Mr. Webber's preparations. The sequence of events is as follows (Figs. 22,
                23):
              A small lenticular cell is cut off and persists, and as it seems  to represent the vegetative tissue of the gametophyte it
                is often called a "prothallial cell." There is no evidence from the literature or
                plates referred to above that an evanescent vegetative cell precedes the persistent
                one, although the occurrence of such a cell is possible, and it should be looked
                for. At this early stage, therefore, the male gametophyte consists of a single small
                vegetative cell and a large cell which we regard as the antheridium initial. The
                latter cell divides unequally, and a second small cell is organized which is in
                contact with the vegetative cell. This division differentiates the sterile and the
                fertile series of the antheridium. The larger, or sterile cell, seems to represent
                the antheridial wall, but since its chief function is to develop the pollen tube it
                may be called the tube cell, and its nucleus the tube
                  nucleus. These are the "vegetative cell" and the "vegetative nucleus" of
                ordinary terminology, but these phrases are more applicable to the so-called
                "prothallial cell" and its nucleus.
              
                FIG. 23.—Zamia integrifolia: A, pollen tube, showing remnant of pollen grain (pg), stalk cell (s), body cell (b),
                  vegetative cell (v), and tube nucleus (t), x
                  80; B, the body cell represented in A, showing
                  the two blepharoplasts (c) surrounded by radiations, x 366; C, division of body cell, showing the two immature male cells and
                  the fragmented blepharoplasts (c), x 133.—After WEBBER.
              
              The smaller cell formed by the division of the antheridial initial is the primary spermatogenous cell, called in botanical literature either
                the generative cell or "antheridial cell." Webber has observed in
                  Zamia an interesting relation between the  vegetative cell and the generative cell, the former actively pushing in
                the wall of the latter until there is an appearance of one cell within another. It
                is at this stage that Ikeno observed the tube pushing into the nucellus and carrying
                with it the tube nucleus, after which the generative cell divides to form the two
                cells which have been called the stalk cell and the body cell. In Cycas, as in Ginkgo, the
                plane of this division is at right angles to the former planes of division, so that
                the stalk and body cells lie side by side and are equally free to develop further.
                In Zamia, however, as usually in Pinus, the
                plane is parallel with the former ones, and the two cells lie fore and
                aft—that is, in a lineal series with the vegetative cell. It is this position
                which seems to have suggested the name stalk cell for the one next to the vegetative
                cell. 
              The stalk cell functions no further, but the body cell enters upon the history
                which is of greatest interest in the investigations of Ikeno and Webber, paralleled
                by Hirasé for Ginkgo. Bodies appear, named blepharoplasts by Webber,27 one at each pole of the nucleus, their final position being in an axis
                at right angles to the long axis of the pollen tube. The origin of these bodies is
                unknown, but nothing to suggest them occurs in any other cells of the plant. In
                their polar position they develop remarkably in size, reaching a diameter of 10 to
                15μ in Cycas and 18 to 20μ in Zamia, and giving
                off fibers which seem to join with the very evident cytoplasmic network.
              In the meantime the pollen tube, containing the tube nucleus, has been growing
                through the nucellar tissue, and branching more or less freely, but apparently not
                so profusely as in Ginkgo. It seems to function only as an
                absorbing organ, for the male cells never pass into it. A short time before
                fertilization the tube nucleus passes back through the tube and consorts with the
                stalk and body cells, after which the body cell divides.
              This division occurs in a plane at right angles to the axis connecting the
                much-enlarged blepharoplasts, and results in the formation of two male cells,
                morphologically sperm mother cells, which lie side by side, their free faces
                rounded, and each with a single blepharoplast. The blepharoplast breaks up into a
                group of granules, and in Cycas, according to Ikeno, a beaklike
                process which remains closely associated with the blepharoplast granules is put out
                from the nucleus. The elongating beak and granules 
                approach the free wall and trace a widening spiral of five or six turns, which
                involves about one half of the cell wall. In this process the granules are organized
                into a spiral band lying very near or against the wall. The blepharoplast band then
                puts out numerous short cilia which pierce the wall of the male cell, on whose
                surface a spiral groove is developed. During this process the nuclear beak
                disappears, and the visible connection between nucleus and band is cut off. The
                final surface appearance of the male cell is that of an oval cell, broad and naked
                behind, spirally grooved in its anterior half, and with many short motile cilia
                emerging from the groove. It should be noted that Zamia, so far as
                Webber's preparations show, gives no evidence of a nuclear beak associated with the
                organization of the ciliated band, but it seems to move independently toward the
                wall and assumes the spiral position.
              During the organization of the cilia the nucleus begins to enlarge at the expense
                of the cytoplasm, until finally it attains remarkable relative dimensions, bulging
                between the coils of the band, so that it becomes spirally grooved, and is covered
                only by a thin mantle of cytoplasm. The ciliated band is formed before the two
                sister cells separate, and Webber has observed the pair swimming while still
                connected. When mature, this ciliated cell is visible to the naked eye in Zamia, its longer axis measuring 258 to 332μ, its shorter axis being
                a little less. In Ginkgo Hirasé gives the dimensions as 82μ by
                49μ; and Ikeno reports that the dimensions in Cycas are somewhat
                larger, but evidently not to be compared with those in Zamia.
              It is these ciliated cells which have been called spermatozoids or antherozoids,
                and such they are physiologically. Morphologically, however, they are sperm mother
                cells which do not organize sperms internally, but themselves pass over directly
                into sperms, a fact which seems true of all Spermatophytes. Morphologically,
                therefore, they are identical with the so-called male cells of all ordinary Seed
                plants, but are peculiar in becoming ciliated. The contrast with Pteridophytes, in
                which each mother cell organizes an internal ciliated sperm and discharges it, is
                sharp. The resemblance between Cycads and Pteridophytes is not in the morphological
                character of the cell which functions as a sperm, in which the Cycads resemble the
                other Seed plants, but in the fact that it is ciliated.
              
              It is helpful to contrast the spermatogenous series in Cycads, which is the same as
                in other Gymnosperms, with that in such a Pteridophyte as Isoetes.
                The sequence may be expressed diagrammatically (Fig. 24), the terminology of the
                Gymnosperms being used.
              
                FIG. 24.—Diagram contrasting spermatogenesis in Cycads
                  and Isoetes.
              
              At one time it seemed to us desirable to homologize this series, if possible, with
                spermatogenesis as observed in animals, and to use the same terminology. Upon
                further investigation, however, we have concluded that such an attempt is at present
                impossible. In animals there is no defined alternation of generations, and in their
                spermatogenesis the reduction division is an important feature, so that merely
                matching generation with generation in the spermatogenesis of the two series would
                probably be very far from indicating any true homologies.
              It should be said that ciliated male cells have been actually observed as yet in
                but three species of Cycads: in Cycas revolute by Ikeno, in Zamia integrifolia by Webber, and in Stangeria
                  paradoxa by Lang.
            
            
              FERTILIZATION
              Immediately after the male cells have become transformed into ciliated sperms, the
                events intimately connected with fertilization begin to occur. The more or less
                extensive pollen tube system, which has been penetrating the loose nucellar tissue
                capping the embryo sac, is abandoned, the tissue becomes disorganized and collapses,
                and the gametophyte structures within the pollen chamber are brought sensibly nearer
                the embryo sac. The pollen tube region in connection with the pollen grain then
                begins to develop, and this end of the tube, containing the tube nucleus and sperms,
                is turned toward the embryo sac, its end capped by the old microspore wall (Fig.
                18). Upon reaching the wall of the embryo sac overlying the archegonial chamber
                resorption of walls probably occurs, but in any event the  turgid end of the tube bursts and discharges its contents into the
                chamber, in whose liquid numerous sperms have been observed swimming. As the
                archegonium necks open into the bottom of this chamber, the sperms swim to them and
                pass down to the egg. Webber observed in Zamia as many as four
                sperms in a single neck.
              As the sperm passes into the cytoplasm of the egg Ikeno and Webber both observed
                that the cytoplasmic mantle with its ciliated band slips off, and is left in the
                peripheral region of the egg cytoplasm, the sperm nucleus moving alone toward the
                egg nucleus. Ikeno states that shortly before the entrance of the sperm the egg
                nucleus develops a cuplike depression, into which the sperm nucleus is received. In
                any event, the latter imbeds itself in the former, and, according to Webber, remains
                distinct for a long time (Fig. 25). Ikeno claims that the sperm nucleus "dissolves"
                within the egg nucleus, and that all nuclear organization is lost, but it seems more
                likely that the same condition obtains as in Conifers, a condition which might very
                easily have escaped observation.
              
                FIG. 25.—Fertilization in Cycads: A,
                  fusion of the nuclei in Cycas revoluta, t
                  indicating the so-called trophoplasmnic substance; B, fusion of
                  the nuclei in Zamia integrifolia, b being the
                  discarded ciliated band, x 20; C, the male nucleus (mn) of Zamia integrifolia after slipping from the
                  cytoplasmic sheath and ciliated band, x 66.—A, after IKENO; B and C, after WEBBER.
              
              The prominent development of the pollen tube as an absorbing organ suggests a
                question as to its original significance. Associated with ciliated sperms, which
                have developed in close proximity to the egg, the function of the tube as a sperm
                carrier is reduced to a minimum, and in fact does not seem to occur in the Cycads.
                It is an interesting question, therefore, whether the pollen tube originated as an
                absorbing  organ and later became used as a sperm
                carrier, or whether the reverse is true. It would seem natural to think of the Cycad
                condition as the more primitive one.
            
          
          
            IV. THE EMBRYO
            The first comparatively full account of the development of the embryo is that given
              by Treub14 for Cycas circinalis, and this account has been confirmed by fragmentary
              observations since. The account given by Ikeno28 for Cycas revoluta agrees 
                FIG. 26.—Cycas circinalis, development
                  of the embryo: A, an ovule from above, showing the openings of
                  the necks of several archegonia, x ⅔; B, longitudinal section of
                  an archegonium, x 73: C, a fertilized egg, showing several free
                  nuclei, x 24; D, free nuclei of the proembryo, showing parietal
                  placing, x 36; E, a young proembryo, x 15; F,
                  a young embryo, showing saclike proembryo, suspensor (susp), and
                  embryo proper (e), x 6; G, longitudinal
                  section of seed containing two embryos, two thirds natural size; H, embryo with suspensor, x 1⅓; J, a more advanced
                  embryo, two thirds natural size; K, a mature embryo.—After
                    TREUB (from Engler and Prantl's Nat. Pflanzenfam.).
               in every particular with Treub's, and fills in certain gaps. There is still
              almost entirely lacking any knowledge of the development of the embryo itself. The
              embryogeny shows three distinct phases as follows (Fig. 26): 
                Development of Proembryo.—This name was applied by
                    Treub to the intrasporic development. The oospore enlarges, continuing to
                    receive supplies of nutrition from the adjacent tissue. The first change
                    observed by Treub was the  presence of numerous
                    free nuclei distributed through the cytoplasm. He naturally inferred that these
                    were derived by repeated nuclear division from the oospore nucleus. Ikeno
                    observed the first division of this nucleus, and has called attention to certain
                    peculiarities connected with it—peculiarities which are chiefly suggestive
                    in being found also in Ginkgo and in Pinus.
                    The first nuclear spindle is the largest one which appears during free nuclear
                    division, and its axis is always inclined to the long axis of the archegonium.
                    Whether this position is significant or not remains to be seen, but the fact
                    that it is also observed in Ginkgo and Pinus
                    suggests that it is worthy of record. The fibers of this primary spindle do not
                    converge as they do in all subsequent ones. As a consequence, this spindle is
                    very broad in outline, really rectangular, while all subsequent spindles are
                    distinctly bipolar. A further point of interest in connection with this spindle
                    is that there are no centrosomes, or centrosome-like bodies, or even polar
                    radiations connected with it. It would seem, therefore, that there is no organ
                    which might be regarded as the lineal descendant of the blepharoplast, which was
                    so prominent in the sperm series. The subsequent bipolar spindles show the
                    ordinary radiations, but no bodies at the poles.
                  Free nuclear division proceeds with rapidity and in simultaneous fashion until
                    the nuclei become very abundant. Ikeno calls attention to the fact that at this
                    time the structure of the cytoplasm of the central region changes. It becomes at
                    first vacuolate, and then completely disorganizes, the nuclei imbedded in it
                    sharing the same fate. The remaining cytoplasm becomes parietal, massing
                    somewhat towards the bottom of the spore. In this parietal layer the nuclei are
                    imbedded, being equidistant from one another and forming usually a single layer,
                    but at the base they are more massed. In this position the nuclei continue to
                    divide and reach large numbers, when cell walls begin to appear. An interesting
                    fact in connection with this division of nuclei, when in the parietal position,
                    is that some of the free nuclei which are nearest the neck end of the oospore
                    divide amitotically, but this tendency seldom reaches into the deeper regions.
                    As a result of this development the proembryo becomes a sac, somewhat thickened
                    at the base, but with the wall composed of one or at most two layers of cells.
                    At this point the work of Ikeno stops, and beyond it Treub gives very little
                    detail.
                
                Development of Suspensor.—At the beginning of the
                  second period of development the cavity of the saclike proembryo fills up with
                  tissue somewhat at the base, but is never obliterated. This second period,
                  however, is chiefly devoted to the development of the suspensor, which is effected
                  by the elongation of cells in the mass at the base of the spore which lie
                  immediately behind the terminal group. These cells, by elongating and dividing,
                  develop a remarkably long and tortuous and massive suspensor, which has never been
                  observed to branch or to give rise to more than a single embryo. The suspensors
                  emerge from the archegonium region in a fascicle, and, imbedded in the endosperm,
                  form a considerable cavity by the disorganization of the adjacent cells. The tips
                  of the suspensors bearing the groups of cells destined to form the embryos are
                  imbedded in the tissues beyond this cavity. The suspensor is quite persistent,
                  remaining attached to the mature embryo, and suspensor coils with abortive embryos
                  may be seen even in ripe seeds.
                Development of Embryo.—Nothing of morphological
                  significance is known in reference to the development of the embryo. The earliest
                  stages figured show an embryo far advanced. In its complete state the embryo shows
                  two cotyledons, but concerning the origin of these cotyledons, or of the stem tip,
                  or of the root tip, we have no information.
              
            
              THE SEED
              The seed becomes plumlike, the testa developing from the thick integument in two
                layers, the outer fleshy, the inner stony. The view that these two very distinct
                layers of the testa may represent two integuments, which have been merged into what
                appears to be a single very thick integument, will be referred to later, in
                connection with the other groups. In Cycas revoluta, and probably
                in the other Cycads, the development of the seed does not depend upon fertilization,
                for with or without pollination there is the same increase in size and development
                of the two layers of the testa. In germination the cotyledons are said to be
                hypogean and closely coherent at the apex, as in Ginkgo, but no
                definite work in seed germination among Cycads seems to have been done.
            
          
          
          
            LITERATURE CITED
            1. BRONGNIART, A.
              Recherches sur l'organisation des tiges des Cycadées. Ann. Sci. Nat. I. 16: 389-402. pls. 20-22. 1829.
            2. VON MOHL, HUGO. Ueber den Bau des Cycadeen-stammes. Abh. der K.
              b. Acad. zu München 1: —. 1832. Republished and revised in
              Vermischte Schriften 195-211. 1845.
            3. MIQUEL, F. A. W.
              Monographia Cycadearum. 1841.
            4. METTENIUS, G. H.
              Beiträge zur Anatomie der Cycadeen. Abh. der K. Sächs. Gesells. der wiss. 7: 565-608. pls. 1-5. 1861.
            5. JURANYI, L. Bau
              und Entwick. des Pollens bei Ceratozamia longifolia Miq. Jahrb. f.
              wiss. Bot. 8: 382-400. pls. 31-34. 1872.
            6. REINKE, J.
              Parasitische Anabaena in Wurzelen der Cycadeen. Gött. Nachr. 107. 1872.
            7. STRASBURGER, E.
              Ueber Zellbildung und Zelltheilung. 1876.
            8. WARMING, E.
              Recherches et remarques sur les Cycadées. Oversigter over d. K. D. Vidensk. Selsk.
              Forh. 1877.
            9. WARMING, E.
              Contributions à l'histoire naturelle des Cycadées. Ibid. 1879.
            10. SOKOLOWA, MLLE. C. Naissance de l'endosperme dans le sac embryonnaire de
              quelques Gymnospermes. Moscou. 1880.
            11. TREUB, M.
              Recherches sur les Cycadées. Ann. Jard. Bot. Buit. 2: 32-53. pls. 1-7. 1881 (date of reprint, volume date being 1885).
            12. GOROSCHANKIN, J.
              Zur Kenntniss der Corpuscula bei den Gymnospermen. Bot. Zeit. 41:
              825-831. pl. 7A. 1883.
            13. DE BARY, A. Comparative Anatomy of the Vegetative Organs of the Phanerogams and
              Ferns. English translation. 1884.
            14. TREUB, M.
              Recherches sur les Cycadées. 3. Embryogenie du Cycas circinalis.
              Ann. Jard. Bot. Buit. 4: 1-11. pls. 1-3.
              1884.
            15. COSTANTIN and
                MOROT. Sur l'origine des faisceaux libéro-ligneux supernuméraires
              dans la tige des Cycadées. Bull. Soc. Bot. France 32: 173. 1885.
              Ref. Bot. Centralbl. 24: 101-102. 1885.
            16. GOEBEL, K.
              Outlines of Classification and Special Morphology. English translation. 316.
              1887.
            17. SOLMS-LAUBACH, H. GRAF ZU. Die Sprossfolge der Stangeria
              und der übrigen Cycadeen. Bot. Zeit. 48: 177-187, 193-199, 209-215,
              225-230. 1890.
            18. STRASBURGER, E.
              Histologische Beiträge 3: 151. 1891.
            19. SCHNEIDER, A.
              Mutualistic Symbiosis of Algae and Bacteria with Cycas revoluta.
              Bot. Gaz. 19: 25-32. pl. 3. 1894.
            20. IKENO, S. Das
              Spermatozoid von Cycas revoluta. Bot. Mag. Tokyo 10: 367-368. 1896.
            21. WORSDELL, W. C.
              Anatomy of Stems of Macrozamia compared with that of other Genera of Cycadeae. Ann.
              Bot. 10: 601-620. pls. 27-28. 1896.
            
            22. IKENO, S. Vorläufige Mittheilung über die
              Spermatozoiden bei Cycas revoluta. Bot. Centralbl. 69: 1-3. 1897.
            23. LANG, W. H.
              Studies in the Development and Morphology of Cycadean Sporangia. I. The Microsporangia
              of Stangeria paradoxa. Ann. Bot. 11: 421-438. pl. 22. 1897.
            24. SCOTT, D. H. The
              Anatomical Characters presented by the Peduncles of Cycadaceae. Ann. Bot. 11: 399-419. pls. 20-21. 1897.
            25. WEBBER, H. J.
              Peculiar Structures occurring in the Pollen Tube of Zamia. Bot. Gaz. 23: 453-459. pl. 40. 1897.
            26. WEBBER, H. J. The
              Development of the Antherozoids of Zamia. Bot. Gaz. 24: 16-22.
              1897.
            27. WEBBER, H. J.
              Notes on the Fecundation of Zamia and the Pollen Tube Apparatus of Ginkgo. Bot. Gaz.
                24: 225-235. pl. 10. 1897.
            28. IKENO, S.
              Untersuchungen über die Entwickelung der Geschlechtsorgane und der Vorgang der
              Befruchtung bei Cycas revoluta. Jahrb. f. wiss. Bot. 32: 557-602. pls. 8-10. 1898.
            29. LANG, W. H.
              Studies in the Development and Morphology of Cycadean Sporangia. II. The Ovule of Stangeria paradoxa. Ann. Bot. 14: 281-306. pls. 17-18. 1900.
            30. WORSDELL, W. C. The Anatomical Structure of
                Bowenia spectabilis. Ann. Bot. 14: 159-160.
              1900.
            31. LIFE, A. C. The
              Tuberclelike Roots of Cycas revoluta. To appear in Bot. Gaz. 31: F 1901.
          
        
        
        
          CHAPTER II
            GINKGOALES
          THIS group is represented by a single living species, Ginkgo biloba, almost unknown in the wild state, but reported in certain forests
            of western China. Its extensive cultivation, however, first in China and Japan, and
            later in all civilized countries, has made it accessible. It was long regarded as an
            exceptional Conifer of the Taxus group, although its resemblances to
            Cycads were frequently pointed out. Recent investigation, however, has resulted in
            regarding this species as the only survivor of an ancient phylum which deserves to be
            coordinated with Cycads and Conifers. A very full general account of the species has
            been published recently by A. C. Seward and Miss J. Gowan,16 while two papers by Hirasé11,13 supply the first comparatively full account of the reproductive
            structures.
          
            I. THE VEGETATIVE ORGANS
            
              THE STEM
              The tree has the general habit of a Conifer, with central shaft and widespreading
                branches (Fig. 27). It is recorded as reaching sometimes a height of more than 30
                meters, with a circumference of more than 8 meters. The vascular bundles are
                collateral, and with a persistent primary cambium as in the Conifers, resulting in
                growth rings of the ordinary type. The secondary wood is composed of tracheids with
                bordered pits, and a characteristic double leaf trace connects the vascular system
                of the stem with that of the leaves. Resin ducts are abundant, both in the pith and
                in the cortex. Two types of branches may be distinguished, the long shoots which are
                terminal and elongate rapidly, and the short shoots which are axillary and slow
                growing, usually bearing tufts of leaves at the summit, and covered below with old
                leaf scars.
            
            
            
              THE LEAF
              The foliage leaves are very characteristic in form and venation, resembling in this
                regard some of the Ferns. The petiole 
                  FIG. 27.—Ginkgo biloba. Taken
                    originally from a water-color painting by a Chinese artist.—After SEWARD and GOWAN.
                 is long and slender, the blade is broadly wedge-shaped and variously
                lobed, and the venation is distinctly dichotomous (Figs.  28, 29). There is great variability, however, both in size and amount of
                lobing.
              The development of the foliage leaf has been described by Fankhauser.6 It is at first a protuberance
                embracing two fifths of the circumference at the stem apex. Soon a distinct
                emargination is developed which becomes a deep incision. During development the
                blade is bent over at the apex and the margins are strongly inrolled. The leaves,
                especially when young, are not merely deeply two-lobed, but each lobe is variously
                toothed or divided.
              
                FIG 28.—Ginkgo biloba, a cluster of
                  leaves and a mature seed.
              
              In anatomical characters the leaf resembles those of Cycads. There is developed an
                evident but not very thick cuticle. The stomata are restricted to the lower surface,
                the guard cells being somewhat below the level of the epidermis. A palisade tissue
                is evident, but somewhat irregular. A transfusion tissue, such as was described
                under the Cycads, appears also in the leaves of Ginkgo, cells of
                the inner mesophyll elongating in a plane parallel with the leaf surface and
                developing numerous and prominent intercellular spaces.
              
                FIG. 29.—Ginkgo biloba, a single leaf,
                  showing venation.
              
              The leaves are deciduous, a rare habit among Gymnosperms, being displayed in
                Conifers only by Larix, Taxodium distichum, and
                  Glyptostrobus.
            
            
            
              THE ROOT
              Some account of the anatomy of the root has been published by Van Tieghem.2 It seems that the vascular
                cylinder is originally a diarch, and a little later each strand divides, resulting
                in the formation of a tetrarch cylinder. Later, new strands come in, so that five or
                six alternating xylem and phloem bundles appear. Presumably the meristem of the apex
                shows the same peculiarities as described under Conifers.
            
          
          
            II. THE SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS
            
              THE MICROSPORANGIUAM
              The stamens occur in loose catkinlike clusters from the axils of the scale leaves
                developed at the summit of the short shoot (Fig. 30, B). It is
                this elongated catkinlike cluster of microsporophylls which has received the
                inappropriate name of the "male flower." The sporophyll has a rather long stalk and
                terminates in a more or less expanded knob, which may be regarded as representing
                the expanded sterile tip common among the Cycads. Beneath the knob the pendent
                sporangia are borne, usually two in number, but sometimes three, or even four. The
                dehiscence is by a longitudinal slit (Fig. 30, C).
              There are no published details of the development of the sporangium, but there is
                no reason to suppose that it is different in any important way from that described
                for the Cycads. The mature sporangium wall consists of four to seven layers of
                cells, with thickening bands on the outer layers.
            
            
              THE MEGASPORANGIUAM
              The structures associated with the megasporangium have given rise to much
                discussion. A long stalk arises from an axil of the leaves borne at the summit of a
                short shoot, and near its apex mostly two megasporangia are borne, only one of which
                functions (Fig. 30, A, E). About the base of each sporangium is a
                more or less conspicuous cup or "collar," much more prominent in the younger stages
                of the sporangium, reaching its full development very early. Seward and Gowan15 have published a résumé of the various views held in reference to the homologies of these
                structures. Briefly they are as follows:
              
              In 1869 Van Tieghem1
                published his view that the stalk represents a petiole, and that the two ovules are
                determined by the two characteristic lobes of the blade. According to this view, the
                whole structure stands for a single carpel. Van Tieghem further sees in the collar
                at the base of each ovule a reduced arillus, which name of course gives no clew to
                its homology. In 1872 Strasburger3 published the view that the stalk is a shoot, and that the collar is the
                rudiment of the first pair of leaves of a secondary shoot. It would follow that the
                whole structure is an inflorescence bearing two flowers, and 
                  FIG. 30.—Ginkgo biloba: A, dwarf branch bearing leaves and young ovules; B, a
                    staminate strobilus; C, more enlarged view of a portion of B; D, longitudinal section of a young ovule;
                      E, a ripe seed associated with an undeveloped ovule. A, B, E, natural size; C, D,
                    enlarged.—After GOEBEL.
                 that any such structure as a carpel is suppressed. In 18795 he modified his view as to the
                character of the collar, having concluded, as Van Tieghem had thought, that it
                represents an arillus. He cited cases in which a stalk bore four ovules, each upon a
                slender stalk of its own; this of course was a strong argument in favor of the view
                that the whole structure represents a shoot. In 1873 Eichler4 published his view that the collar
                represents an outer integument; which is not necessarily inconsistent with the
                preceding views that it stands for an arillus. Later7 he called the collar a rudimentary carpel,
                and  regarded the two ovules as representing a single
                flower. In 1890 Čelakovský8
                published the view that the stalk is an axillary shoot bearing two or more carpels,
                but that each carpel is represented only by an ovule. This means that the presence
                of the carpel is purely theoretical. The same author14 in 1900 reaffirms this position with
                greater fullness of detail. In 1896 Fujii,12 after a study of abundant Japanese material, and
                especially taking into account numerous abnormal developments, came to the
                conclusion that the stalk is a shoot, usually bearing two rudimentary carpels. That
                the ovules are really related to carpels appears from the fact that he found them
                upon more or less modified foliage leaves. In other cases he found transition stages
                between the normal collar and blades bearing ovules, his conclusion being that the
                collar represents the rudimentary carpel. The short stalk which is sometimes quite
                evident in connection with each ovule stands, therefore, for the petiole of a
                megasporophyll. That the main stalk is a shoot was further evidenced by the fact
                that cases were found in which a stalk bore several ovules and terminated in a scaly
                bud. The results of Seward and Gowan's16 studies coincide with the views of Fujii. These observers
                have still further strengthened the position by the record of additional
                abnormalities.
              
                FIG. 31.—Ginkgo biloba, longitudinal
                  section of ovule: i, integument; m, micropyle;
                    p, beaked apex of nucellus, with pollen chamber containing
                  pollen grains; g, embryo sac containing an early stage of the
                  gametophyte; c, the "collar"; x 5.
              
              A summary of what seems to be the most reasonable view of the homologies of the
                ovulate structures in Ginkgo is as follows: The main stalk
                represents a shoot bearing two or more carpels, and these carpels mostly occur in
                rudimentary form, the petiole being represented by the short stalk upon which each
                ovule stands, and the blade by the so-called collar.
              The development of the megasporangium seems to be 
                almost identical with that in the Cycads. According to Pax,9 a many-celled archesporium is
                differentiated. The single thick integument with a long and narrow micropyle, the
                large mass of sterile nucellar tissue above the single megaspore, the conspicuous
                and resistant nucellar beak projecting into the micropyle and containing a pollen
                chamber, the comparatively loose nucellar tissue between the beak and the megaspore,
                are all as in the Cycads (Fig. 31). Hirasé13 says that the pollen chamber is organized early in May, soon
                after the maturing of the pollen, and that near the time of pollination it is full
                of liquid. He also observes that the chamber results from the exclusive development
                of the external tissue of the beak, the inner tissue thus becoming ruptured and
                disorganized. The changes which occur in the nucellus in connection with the
                development of the pollen tubes will be described under fertilization.
            
          
          
            III. THE GAMETOPHYTES
            
              THE FEMALE GAMETOPHYTE
              The development of the endosperm seems to proceed in the same way as in the Cycads,
                although such full details are not on record. However, the following sequence of
                events is the same: free nuclear division, parietal placing of free nuclei imbedded
                in a cytoplasmic layer, appearance of walls resulting in the organization of a
                tissue, and gradual growth of the parietal tissue toward the center of the sac,
                which it finally completely fills. During this development the sac encroaches upon
                the adjacent nucellar tissue, practically obliterating all of it except that which
                caps the sac. Hirasé has made the interesting observation that about 256 free nuclei
                have been organized when walls begin to appear, representing eight successive
                nuclear divisions.
              There are usually two archegonia, but sometimes a greater number has been observed.
                They are exactly as in the Cycads, with two neck cells, and a central cell which
                develops remarkably in size and nutrient material (Fig. 34, A-C).
                As in Cycads, also, the adjacent cells of the endosperm organize a layer of jacket
                cells about the central cell, and a heavy wall is developed. It seems very probable
                that the central cell in this case receives nutritive supplies from the jacket cells
                through  wall pores, as has been demonstrated in Cycads
                and Conifers. Just before fertilization, early in September, the small and ephemeral
                ventral canal cell is cut off, and the large egg is organized (Fig. 34, C). Hirasé states that about twenty weeks elapse between pollination and the
                maturity of the egg. It should also be noted that an archegonial chamber is
                developed in the endosperm, as in Cycads, though this is somewhat modified later by
                the remarkable development of an endosperm beak, to be described in connection with
                fertilization.
            
            
              THE MALE GAMETOPHYTE
              Our knowledge of the development of the male gametophyte of Ginkgo dates from Strasburger's account10 in 1892, much extended by the recent very complete
                observations of Hirasé13
                (Fig. 32). From this last account the following description of the male gametophyte
                and of fertilization is derived.
              The first division of the microspore is unequal, resulting in cutting off a small
                lenticular cell, which soon disorganizes and later appears merely as a cleft in the
                heavy spore wall. This first ephemeral cell may be regarded as a vegetative cell of
                the gametophyte, a vestige of the vegetative tissue of a more extensive and probably
                independent gametophyte. It is interesting to note that this same ephemeral cell
                appears in the germination of the microspores of most of the Conifers, but was not
                observed by either Ikeno or Webber in the Cycads.
              A second unequal division occurs, and a second small cell is cut off, which
                persists, and which represents a second vegetative cell (Fig. 32, A,
                  p). This second vegetative cell is cut off in the microspore of most
                Conifers, but it is ephemeral like the first; while this single persistent
                vegetative cell appears to be the first and only one cut off in the microspores of
                Cycads. Ginkgo resembles the Conifers, therefore, in having two
                vegetative cells; and resembles the Cycads in having one persistent vegetative cell.
                It is a question whether a first ephemeral vegetative cell may not yet be detected
                in Cycads, thus confirming the close resemblance between these two groups which
                appears in almost every other feature of their male gametophytes.
              After the two vegetative cells have been cut off, the remaining large cell is what
                we regard as the antheridium initial, whose function is to organize the single
                antheridium. This cell  divides unequally, the smaller
                daughter cell, in contact with the persistent vegetative cell, being the primary
                spermatogenous cell or generative cell (Fig. 32, B, a), the larger
                daughter cell being the tube cell (Fig. 32, B, t). The gametophyte
                is in this 
                  FIG. 32.—Ginkgo biloba, development
                    of male gametophyte: A, pollen grain collected April 24th,
                    showing third nuclear division and the persistent vegetative cell (p), x 500; B, a later stage, showing persistent
                    vegetative cell (p), generative cell (a),
                    and tube nucleus (t), x 500; C, later stage,
                    July 10th, the generative cell almost spherical, x 500; D,
                    division of nucleus of generative cell into nuclei of stalk and body cells, July
                    11th, x 500; F, division of the body cell, the blepharoplasts
                    being faintly visible, x 120; E, the two male cells produced
                    by the body cell, September 12th, x 226.—After HIRASÉ.
                 three-celled stage when pollination takes place, during the last of April
                or early in May.
              From this stage on the sequence is exactly as that described for Cycas. The generative cell divides to form the stalk and body cells (Fig.
                32, D), which lie side by side, only the body cell functioning
                further. In the body cell the two blepharoplasts (Fig. 32, F)
                appear, and division occurs, resulting in the two male cells, lying side by side,
                and each containing a blepharoplast. Each male cell then directly develops as a  multiciliate sperm, the blepharoplast forming the
                cilia-bearing band, which a beaklike process put out by the nucleus seems to guide
                in organizing the spiral of about three coils.
              Although this general account is the same as that given for Cycads, there are at
                least two differences in detail which deserve mention. Hirasé states that the
                division of the generative cell of Ginkgo is only a nuclear
                division, or at least that there is no dividing wall, and that the nonfunctional
                nucleus is gradually thrust out of the cell by the large development of the
                functional nucleus. He further states that when the cilia-bearing band is about to
                be organized by the blepharoplast, the latter puts out a hooklike process which
                attaches itself to the nucleus, and following this the nuclear beak develops with
                the hooklike process attached to its tip. Hirasé's observations indicate that the
                initiative which results in the nuclear beak proceeds from the blepharoplast, while
                Ikeno's observation indicates that the initiative proceeds from the nucleus itself.
                It will be remembered that Webber observed no nuclear beak in Zamia.
              The homology of these ciliated cells functioning as sperms, and the reason for not
                regarding them as the morphological equivalents of the multiciliate sperms of
                Pteridophytes, but rather the equivalents of the so-called male cells common to all
                Spermatophytes, are fully stated in connection with the Cycads. Hirasé's figures
                show a wall inclosing the ciliated cell, presumably the wall of the mother cell
                (male cell), but no reference is made to it in the text. If this represents the real
                situation, it would follow that the ciliated cell in Ginkgo is
                morphologically a sperm, being organized within a mother cell and discharged from
                it. This view is clearly supported by the recent figures and statement of Fujii,14 which represent the
                multiciliate sperm as distinctly organized within the mother cell and discharged
                from it. The details of development are so nearly identical with those in Cycas and Zamia, that it seems improbable that
                such an important difference could occur. If it be true that the ciliated sperm in
                  Ginkgo is morphologically a sperm, and not merely a ciliated
                mother cell, it would follow that Ginkgo is still more fernlike
                than was supposed, and unlike other Gymnosperms and all Angiosperms in the feature
                that its sperm mother cells do not function as male cells. It must be remembered
                that Ginkgo is a much older type than are the Cycads investigated,
                   even the genus Cycas, and it is
                not inconceivable that this difference between a very ancient type and much more
                modern types may occur.
            
            
              FERTILIZATION
              We have reserved for this topic all of the events associated with the development
                of the pollen tubes, as well as the immediate act of fertilization. When the pollen
                grains reach the pollen chamber, about the first of May, the male gametophyte is in
                its three-celled stage, the cells being the persistent vegetative cell, the
                generative cell, and the large tube cell. The pollen chamber now begins to enlarge
                at the expense of the nucellar tissue beneath, carrying the grains deep into the
                nucellus. By the beginning of June the chamber has greatly enlarged, forming a large
                irregular cavity, which practically reaches the embryo sac. When the grains begin to
                put out their tubes, the opening to the pollen chamber becomes closed and remains
                so, the surrounding tissue becoming brown and forming a solid beak which long
                persists as a cap on the sac. The deep placed grains, carried by the enlarging
                chamber well below the beak, send out their tubes in every direction into the
                adjacent nucellar tissue, but chiefly away from the embryo sac, and often directly
                toward the beak. Into these young tubes the tube nuclei pass, and remain there as
                long as the tube system is developing.
              About the beginning of July the tubes have penetrated the nucellar tissue more
                deeply and branch freely, the tube nucleus remaining where a tube begins to branch.
                This extensive system of branching tubes seems to function only as an absorbing
                system, as in the Cycads. At this stage the generative cell has the appearance of
                being pushed away from contact with the vegetative cell, on account of the
                development of vacuoles in the latter (Fig. 32, D); it increases
                very much in size, its nucleus keeping pace with it; and these relative positions
                are maintained until just before fertilization, which occurs about ten weeks
                later.
              About the middle of July the nucleus of the generative cell divides rapidly,
                forming two daughter nuclei which represent the stalk and body cells. One of these
                nuclei enlarges very much, and comes to occupy a central position in the cell,
                crowding the other aside into the space between the generative cell and the
                vegetative cell. In this way the body cell is organized.  At the end of July the body cell increases still more in size, becoming rich in
                contents, and its nucleus becoming very large. At this stage the blepharoplasts
                appear, and finally assume their polar positions at the extremities of the long axis
                of the ellipsoidal nucleus. This stage persists for three weeks—that is, until
                the third week before fertilization.
              
                FIG. 33.—Ginkgo biloba, upper part of
                  female gametophyte, showing two archegonia, the beaklike process of the endosperm
                  supporting the remains of the nucellus, and the swollen tips of two pollen tubes,
                  September 9th, x 24.—After HIRASÉ.
              
              At the beginning of August the tube nucleus begins to pass back to the grain end of
                the tube, which it reaches in about two weeks, consorting with the body cell, or
                with the male cells, until fertilization. During this retreat of the tube nucleus
                and abandonment of the absorbing tube system, the endosperm begins to develop a beak
                between the two archegonia. Hirasé suggests that its significance is to be explained
                by the fact that the tissue between the nucellar beak and the embryo sac has been
                broken down by the deepening of the pollen chamber and by the absorptive work of the
                pollen-tube system, and that the heavy beak settles down upon the sac. In about two
                weeks the endosperm beak looks like a small column, with its summit against the
                nucellar beak, "like a tent supported by its center pole," in the shelter of which
                there is freedom for the final processes connected with fertilization. Pressure upon
                the grain ends of the pollen tubes which happen to lie under "the tent" is thus
                avoided, and these ends become very turgid and are directed toward the near-lying
                archegonia (Fig. 33).
              During the third week before fertilization—that is, about the last of
                August—the body cell begins division, and the ciliated male cells are
                organized. The swollen tip of the pollen tube, capped by the old wall of the pollen
                grain, now contains in a group the two male cells, the tube nucleus, and the
                vegetative cell, together with whatever may remain of the stalk cell. At the time of
                fertilization the capped tip of the tube turns toward the archegonial chamber and
                discharges the contents into it. The exact position of the sac wall in relation to
                   the archegonial chamber after the development of the
                endosperm beak is not made clear in Hirasé's account, which seems to imply that the
                way is open to the archegonial chamber. In any event, the sperms reach the chamber,
                and in it Hirasé has 
                  FIG. 34.—Ginkgo biloba: A, longitudinal section of the neck of the archegoniurn, x 160; B, transverse section of the same, x 160; C,
                    archegonium shortly before fertilization, showing ventral canal cell (v) and egg nucleus (n), x 66 ; D, free nuclei resulting from the first nuclear divisions of the
                    oospore, x 66; E, later stage, showing the compact tissue of
                    the embryo filling the oospore, x 66.—After STRASBURGER.
                 observed them swimming. The entrance of sperms into the archegonia
                follows, and fertilization is effected.
              The statement has been usual that fertilization does not occur until the ripe
                ovules have fallen. While this may be true frequently, Hirasé found that some seeds,
                at least,  contain embryos while still attached, a fact
                which we have been able to verify in our own experience.
            
          
          
            IV. THE EMBRYO
            Although the embryo of Ginkgo is exceptional among Gymnosperms, and
              of great interest, the details of its development 
                FIG. 35.—Photographs of embryos of Ginkgo
                    biloba in various stages: A, young embryo; B, older stage, showing cotyledons; C, a still older
                  embryo, showing several young leaves; D, a portion of a nearly
                  mature embryo, with conspicuous resin ducts in stem, cotyledons, and leaves; the
                  beaklike process supporting the remains of the nucellus is still visible.
              
               are not sufficiently known. We have been able to secure
              almost a complete series showing the general outlines of the development (Figs.
              34-36), which merely confirms the facts already published. Germination of the oospore
              begins, as is usual, among Gymnosperms, with repeated nuclear division (Fig. 34, D). These nuclei, however, instead of organizing a parietal tissue as
              in the Cycads, or a basal group as in the Conifers, proceed to fill the whole cavity
              of the enlarging oospore with free nuclei, which is followed by the organization of a
              compact tissue (Fig. 34, E). In a certain sense this structure would
              seem to represent the proembryo of Cycads, but it really represents the whole product
              of the oospore, in which proembryo, suspensor, and embryo proper are not
              differentiated. The complete filling of the spore with tissue, and the lack of early
              differentiation into the great embryonic regions, would suggest a habit more primitive
              than in either Cycads or Conifers. At the same time, it may be merely a derived
              character. In any event, the tissue near the base of the spore, which in the other
              groups develops both suspensor and embryo, shows far greater vigor than the remaining
              tissue. In the organization of the embryo the whole mass of tissue is involved, and in
              the absence of a suspensor the embryo invades the endosperm by direct growth.
            
              FIG. 36.—Ginkgo biloba, a seed with
                embryo in stage shown in Fig. 35, C: e, embryo;
                  g, endosperm; h and f, hard
                and fleshy layers of the testa; natural size.
            
            The two cotyledons are differentiated early in October, and are quite unequal in
              length. The larger one is two-lobed, while the shorter one is cleft halfway down, thus
              early indicating the bilobed character of the leaf. The two cotyledons are also united
              at the apex, but the epidermal layers of the two are distinct where they are in
              contact. The plumule is very conspicuous between the elongated cotyledons, three or
              more leaves appearing just behind the stem apex (Fig. 35).
            As in the Cycads, the seed becomes plumlike, a testa with fleshy outer and stony
              inner layers being organized (Fig. 36). Even without pollination the seed attains its
              usual size and the two layers of the testa are developed.
          
          
          
            LITERATURE CITED
            1. VAN TIEGHEM, PH. Anatomie comparée de la fleur femelle et du
              fruit des Cycadées, des Coniféres, et des Gnétacées. Ann. Sci. Nat. V. 10: 269-304. pls. 13-16. 1869.
            2. VAN TIEGHEM, PH. Recherches sur la symétrie de structure des
              plantes vasculaires. Ann. Sci. Nat. V. 13: 1-314. pls.
                3-8. 1870.
            3. STRASBURGER, E.
              Die Coniferen und die Gnetaceen. 1872.
            4. EICHLER, A. W.
              Sind die Coniferen gymnosperm oder nicht? Flora 56: 241-247,
              260-272. 1873.
            5. STRASBURGER, E.
              Die Angiospermen und die Gymnospermen. 1879.
            6. FANKHAUSER, J.
              Entwickelung des Stengels und Blattes von Ginkgo. Bern, 1882.
            7. EICHLER, A. W.
              Coniferae in Engler and Prantl's Die nat. Pflanz. 2: 108.
              1889.
            8. ČELAKOVSKÝ, L. Die
              Gymnospermen Abh. k. böhm. Gesell. wiss. VII. 4: 1 seq. 1890.
            9. PAX, F. Allgemeine
              Morphologie der Pflanzen mit besonderer Berücksichtigung der Blüthenmorphologie.
              1890.
            10. STRASBURGER, E.
              Ueber das Verhalten des Pollens und die Befruchtungsvorgänge bei den Gymnospermen.
              1892.
            11. HIRASÉ, S. Études
              sur la fécondation et l'embryogénie du Ginkgo biloba. Jour. Coll.
              Sci. Imp. Univ. Tokyo 8: 307-322. pls. 31-32.
              1895.
            12. FUJII, K. On the
              Different Views hitherto proposed regarding the Morphology of the Flowers of Ginkgo biloba. Bot. Mag. Tokyo 10: 15-25, 104-110.
                pl. 1. 1896.
            13. HIRASÉ, S. Études
              sur la fécondation et l'embryogénie du Ginkgo biloba. Jour. Coll.
              Sci. Imp. Univ. Tokyo 12: 103-149. pls. 7-9.
              1898.
            14. ČELAKOVSKÝ, L.
              Die Vermehrung der Sporangien von Ginkgo biloba L. Oesterreich. bot.
              Zeitsch. 50: 229-237, 276-283, 337-341. 1900.
            15. FUJII, K. On the
              Morphology of the Spermatozoid of Ginkgo biloba. Bot. Mag. Tokyo 14: 260-266. pl. 7. 1900.
            16. SEWARD, A. C.,
              and GOWAN, MISS J. The Maiden Hair Tree. (Ginkgo biloba L.). Ann. Bot. 14: 109-154. pls. 8-10. 1900.
          
        
        
        
          CHAPTER III CONIFERALES
          THE representative Gymnosperms, at least of the present time, are
            Conifers. They include about three hundred recognized living species, distributed among
            thirty-four genera, and constitute fully three fourths of the present Gymnosperm flora.
            They are characteristic of the temperate regions of both northern and southern
            hemispheres, presenting a sharp contrast in this regard to the Cycads.
          
            I. THE VEGETATIVE ORGANS
            
              THE STEM
              The most conspicuous morphological feature of the stem is its regular monopodial
                branching. The terminal bud continues to be more vigorous than the lateral ones,
                both in the main axis and in the branches, and as a result the characteristic
                symmetrically conical form of the Conifers is developed (Figs. 37-40).
              The branches are distinctly dimorphic, the two forms being characterized as long
                shoots and spur shoots. In what may be regarded as the more primitive forms of the
                stem body both kinds of shoots bear foliage leaves; but in Pinus
                the main axes bear only scale leaves, while the spur shoots bear the only foliage
                leaves; in Sciadopitys and Phyllocladus the same
                condition obtains, except that in the former the spur shoot is apparently replaced
                by the peculiar double needle leaf (Fig. 41), and in the latter it is transformed
                into the phylloclad.
              An interesting fact in connection with these shoots is that in the seedlings a very
                different behavior of the shoots may be observed. These "juvenile" and usually very
                transient forms may be "fixed" by artificial culture, so that the plant assumes 
                  FIG. 37.—Sequoia gigantea. This tree
                    is ten meters in diameter. From a photograph in possession of the United States
                    Geological Survey.
                
                
                  FIG. 38.—Pinus Strobus.—After
                    Forest Tree Photo-reproduction Company of Chicago.
                
                
                
                  FIG. 39.—Larix sp., after shedding
                    its leaves.—After COULTER.
                 a somewhat permanent appearance very different from its normal adult form.
                  Goebel46 has recently given
                an interesting résumé of this subject. For example, in Pinus the long shoots  of seedlings
                bear foliage leaves, which may disappear from the long shoots in the second year, as
                in P. silvestris, or may continue for many years. These needlelike
                primary leaves are of simpler anatomical structure than the subsequent foliage
                leaves, especially in the matter of provision for controlling transpiration. 
                  FIG. 40.—Araucaria sp.—After
                      COULTER.
                 In the juvenile forms of Larix the leaves persist during
                the winter. It is among the Cupresseae, however, that the greatest amount of work
                has been done in "fixing" juvenile forms, such relatively permanent forms being
                known in gardens as species of Retinospora. While some of the
                adult forms of Cupresseae, as Juniperus communis, retain the more
                primitive habit of spreading needles, others (Juniperus
                Virginiana, species of Cupressus, of Callitris, of Chamaecyparis, of Thuja)
                develop "concrescent" leaves upon their adult shoots—that is, leaves whose
                upper sides have become organically connected with the adjacent stem surface, so
                that they appear as green scales. In such cases, the juvenile form, with its
                spreading needle leaves, presents a striking contrast with the adult form (Fig.42,
                  A-D). In Phyllocladus the phylloclads are in
                the axils of small scalelike leaves which are at first green, but later become true
                scales, and are really the transformed primordia of foliage leaves; while in the
                juvenile forms the first leaves are flat green needles, which are gradually replaced
                by shorter and shorter ones until the adult form is reached, and the  phylloclads themselves only gradually acquire their
                peculiar character (Fig. 42, E, F). The juvenile forms of Sciadopitys, like those of Pinus, show simple
                needle leaves upon long shoots, but later scales occur instead of needles, and in
                their axils the peculiar double needle leaves are developed.
              Goebel suggests that the juvenile forms probably represent the more primitive form.
                These facts in connection with the 
                  FIG. 41.—Sciadopitys verticillata:
                    at the left an ovulate strobilus, at the right a branch with staminate strobili,
                    one third natural size (from Gardener's Chronicle); a, ventral
                    view, and b, dorsal view of staminate sporophyll; c, ovulate sporophyll; d, cross section of the double
                    leaf: a, b, c, after Sieb. and Zucc.—Whole figure from
                      ENGLER and PRANTL'S Nat.
                    Pflanzenfam.
                 group furnish an admirable illustration of what the zoologists have styled
                the "recapitulation theory," which has been tersely defined as meaning that ontogeny
                repeats phylogeny. It is certainly true that if the adult bodies of many of the
                forms not mentioned above be associated with these juvenile forms, a very consistent
                shoot body is discovered for Conifers. It would follow that the replacement of
                foliage leaves by scales on the long shoots of Pinus, Sciadopitys, and Phyllocladus; the 
                
                  FIG. 42.—Juvenile forms: A-D, Thuja
                      occidentalis; A and B, seedlings; C and D, shoots from adventitious buds; E and F, seedlings of Phyllocladus rhomboidalis.
                
                 peculiar double leaf of Sciadopitys
                and phylloclad of Phyllocladus; the deciduous habit of Larix; the concrescent leaves of many Cupresseae, are all derived
                characters, from forms with spreading and persistent needle leaves on all the
                shoots.
              The histological features of the adult stem are quite uniform, and in some
                particulars peculiar to the group. As was stated under the Cycads, however, the apex
                of the stem is variable in character. According to De Bary27 (page 14), the dermatogen, periblem, and
                plerome either merge in a common group of initials, as in the Abieteae, or these
                regions are distinct at the apex, each with its own initials, as in certain species
                of Araucaria, Dammara, and Cunninghamia. One of the most striking features of the stem, in contrast
                with that of Cycads, is the persistence of the primary cambium cylinder, resulting
                in annual increase of diameter through the accumulation of secondary xylem, a
                character which constitutes the chief resemblance of Conifers to Dicotyledons. The
                primary bundles contain true tracheary tissue, but with the appearance of the
                secondary xylem the resemblance to Dicotyledons vanishes, as it consists exclusively
                of radially arranged tracheids with bordered pits, and is penetrated by narrow and
                vertically short pith rays. In Pinus, Picea, Larix, Pseudotsuga, and probably other genera, the
                pith rays are of two general types, either very narrow, often but one cell broad, or
                lenticular in tangential section, with a resin duct in the middle. In vertical
                extent the number of cells is quite variable, probably three to sixteen representing
                the average range of numbers. De Bary27 (page 490), reports one to twelve as the number of cells in
                the vertical plane of the pith rays of some Abieteae; while in Cedrus and in certain fossil forms the number may rise as high as fifty. The
                bordered pits are usually developed only upon the tracheid walls toward the pith
                rays, and are discovered, therefore, by radial longitudinal sections (Fig. 43). The
                cells of the pith rays also have large closed pits upon the walls adjacent to the
                tracheids. All of the bundles are common, a single strand connecting with each leaf,
                none of them being cauline as in Cycads. Companion cells are also lacking, as in
                Pteridophytes. The open collateral bundles have retained no trace of a concentric
                origin, as in the Cycads, unless the peculiar bundles found by Worsdell48 in the cotyledons and fleshy
                seed integument of Cephalotaxus may be  regarded as giving evidence of such a derivation. In other particulars, also, Cephalotaxus seems to be the most cycadlike of the Conifers.
              Resin ducts seem to be present in all Conifers except Taxus,
                always occurring in the leaves and in the cortex of the stem. In 
                  FIG. 43.—A cube from the secondary wood of Pinus Laricio, reconstructed from three camera drawings: in
                    cross section at the left a few rows of small thick-walled cells of the autumn
                    wood are shown, and at the right the larger thinner-walled cells of the spring
                    wood; tr, transverse section; lr,
                    longitudinal radial section; lt, longitudinal tangential
                    section; m, medullary ray; b, bordered pit;
                      s, simple pit; x 400.
                 different genera they occur also in all other regions; for example, in the
                primary and secondary xylem, and certain pith rays of Pinus; in
                the primary and secondary phloem of both stem and root in Araucaria, etc. They are absent from the root in many genera, and when
                present never occur in the cortex. These  ducts are
                schizogenous in origin, a group of glandular cells being formed by repeated
                division, which separate by the splitting of common walls, and organize a passageway
                which they line, and into which they pour their characteristic secretion.
              The chief histological features of the Conifer stem may be summarized as follows:
                (1) growth in diameter by means of the primary cambium cylinder, (2) secondary xylem
                radially arranged and composed entirely of tracheids with bordered pits, (3)
                presence of resin ducts, and (4) absence of companion cells.
            
            
              THE LEAF
              The occurrence of foliage leaves and scales is far from uniform, as was indicated
                in the discussion of the stem, and may be outlined in a general way as follows: (1)
                foliage leaves only, as in most Cupresseae and in Araucarieae; (2) scale leaves
                only, as in Phyllocladus (the spur shoots being transformed into
                phylloclads); (3) both foliage leaves and scales, either on the 
                  FIG. 44.—Taxus baccata: 1, branch with ripe seeds; 2, ovule projecting beyond
                    scales of the small fertile branch; 3, longitudinal section of
                      2; 4, young seed not yet inclosed by aril;
                      5, longitudinal section of ripe seed; 6, Thuja
                      orientalis; 7-9, Juniperus communis.—After KERNER.
                 same shoot, as in Abies and its allies, or on different
                shoots, as in Pinus. It was noted in connection with the stem that
                spreading needle leaves on all the shoots is probably the primitive Conifer
                condition, and that the scales and other leaf forms have been derived from them.
              The foliage leaves are quite variable in form, from small  discoid ones closely imbricated and appressed upon the axis
                ("concrescent"), as in many of the Cupresseae, to the characteristic free needles of
                the Abieteae, and the broad blades of certain Podocarpeae (Figs. 44-46, 53). In
                general the phyllotaxy is spiral, but in the Cupresseae it is cyclic. The foliage 
                  FIG. 45.—Phyllocladus spp.: A, branch with staminate strobili; a,
                    staminate strobilus; b and c, sporophylls
                    from a; d, longitudinal section of ovulate
                    strobilus; e, mature ovulate strobilus; f,
                    longitudinal section of e; B and g, ovulate branches. A and a-d, P. trichomanoides, after HOOKER; e and f, P.
                      rhomboidalis, after RICHARD; B and
                      g, P. glauca.—Entire plate from ENGLER and PRANTL'S Nat. Pflanzenfam.
                 leaves are very persistent, enduring from one to ten years, the basal
                growth permitting them to increase in size at base with the increase in the diameter
                of the axis. So far as recorded, the only Conifers with deciduous leaves are Larix, Taxodium distichum, and Glyptostrobus, a habit which seems to be a derived one, as in the juvenile
                forms of Larix the leaves persist through the winter.
              The histology of the foliage leaf reveals a very xerophytic structure, and argues
                for adaptation to extreme conditions. The epidermis consists of elongated, fiberlike
                cells, with strongly cutinized walls, the guard cells being deeply sunken. The
                rigidity is chiefly due to the hypodermal layers or masses of elongated
                sclerenchymatous cells. In case the leaf is flat the mesophyll differentiates into
                the palisade and spongy regions, but if it is acicular the mesophyll is uniform
                throughout; in any case there are curious platelike "infoldings" of the wall. In the
                acicular leaves there is a single central bundle region,  invested by a very distinct bundle sheath, in which two vascular bundles of the
                ordinary collateral type are developed. The 
                  FIG. 46.—Branch from Podocarpus
                      Purdieana.—From photograph of herbarium specimen, two thirds
                    natural size.
                 remaining tissue within the sheath is organized as "transfusion tissue,"
                consisting of two kinds of parenchymatous cells, (1) those without protoplasm and
                pitted, and (2) those with  protoplasm and not pitted.
                The former cells are said to represent an extension of the tracheid system, passing
                water from the xylem to the mesophyll; and the latter to mediate between the
                mesophyll and the phloem in the transfer of organized material (Fig. 47).
              The single bundle which enters the leaf divides into two strands in the narrow
                leaves, and the strands run parallel and near together with a common bundle sheath.
                In broader leaves 
                  FIG. 47.—Pinus Laricio, cross
                    section of a needle, x 70.
                 the bundle divides into several more divergent strands. In no case do the
                veins come near the surface, but run through the middle tissue.
            
            
              THE ROOT
              In strong contrast with the Pteridophytes, the primary root in Conifers persists as
                a tap root; while, according to De Bary27, following Strasburger,17 the differentiation of the meristem at the
                apex is essentially different from that of Angiosperms, as was indicated in
                connection with the Cycads. The description given by De Bary is essentially as
                follows, and the accompanying figure (Fig. 48) from the same source will fully
                illustrate it: "A plerome cylinder with sharp  contour
                occupies the center. The longitudinal rows of cells which compose this converge at
                the rounded apex toward a small initial group of cells. The plerome is surrounded by
                a mantle of periblem consisting of many (in Thuja occidentalis 12
                to 14) concentric layers arranged with considerable regularity. Each one of the
                inner layers (in Thuja 8 to 10) of this mantle has its initial
                group above the apex of the plerome." Cell divisions perpendicular and parallel to
                the surface increase the surface elements of the layer and the number of layers. "As
                the layers are pushed outward above the apex by their successive doubling, division
                ceases in them, and increase of volume of the cells takes place; those which happen
                to be outermost at the apex become gradually loosened, and pushed off as a root cap.
                Here, then, it is not possible to distinguish a layer of calyptrogen or of
                dermatogen; the outermost periblem acts as root cap covering the meristematic
                apex."
              
                FIG. 48.—Juniperas oxycedrus,
                  longitudinal section of lateral root : p-p, plerome, surrounded
                  by about sixteen layers of periblem, the outermost of which represent the root
                  cap; i, initial region for periblem and plerome.—After
                    DE BARY.
              
              The vascular axis is mostly diarch, a simpler structure than in Dicotyledons
                generally, and much simpler than in Monocotyledons.
            
          
          
            II. THE SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS
            
              THE MICROSPORANGIUM
              The strobili of Conifers are always monosporangiate, either monoecious, as in Abieteae and Thuja, or dioecious, as in Araucaria, Juniperus, and Taxus.
                The microsporangiate strobili are usually much more numerous than the
                megasporangiate ones, and are never terminal on the primary axis, or even upon  the larger branches (Figs. 49, 50, 53, 57, 58).
                Sometimes they appear terminal on small leafy shoots of the last order, and
                sometimes they occur in the axils of the leaves of stronger shoots. In Pinus they replace spur shoots in the axils of scales, being usually
                numerous and forming a cluster beyond which the parent axis continues its
                growth.
              The sporophylls follow the leaf arrangement; for example, they are spiral in
                Abieteae, and cyclic in Cupresseae. They are exceedingly variable in form, nearly
                every genus having a characteristic microsporophyll (Fig. 51). In almost every case
                there is an evident differentiation into a stalklike base and an expanded terminal
                portion, the latter bearing the sporangia. Peltate forms occur, as in Taxus, recalling the sporophylls of some of the Cycads and of Equisetum, and from beneath the peltate expansion the numerous free
                sporangia are pendent by a narrow 
                  FIG. 49.—Pinus Laricio. Longitudinal
                    section of a staminate strobilus collected in November, x 14.
                
                
                  FIG. 50.—Juniperus communis,
                    longitudinal section of a staminate strobilus, x 24.
                 base. Numerous modifications of the peltate type occur, as in Araucaria, Cupressus, Cryptomeria, etc.,
                as well as transitions to the type exhibited by Pinus and its
                allies, in which the expanded portion continues the plane of the stalk, and bears
                upon its lower surface two pouchlike more or less imbedded sporangia.  A microsporophyll of Pinus bears a
                certain superficial resemblance to the ordinary stamen of Angiosperms, but the
                "pollen sac" of the latter is not the morphological equivalent of the
                microsporangium of the former. In general, the microsporophylls of Conifers bear
                less numerous sporangia than do those of Cycads, and a much more variable number
                than do those of Angiosperms.
              The sporangia are protected in various ways. Sometimes they are more or less sunken
                in the tissues of the sporophyll (Pinus, Abies,
                etc.); sometimes they are covered by an outgrowth from the under surface of the
                bladelike expansion (Cupressus, Thuja, Juniperus, etc.); and in many cases they are freely suspended by a
                narrow base, but protected by the close abutting of the peltate portions.
              The sporangium develops in the usual eusporangiate manner, organizing several wall
                layers and developing numerous mother cells (Fig. 68). We find that in Pinus Laricio the number of wall layers is usually five, the innermost
                organizing the 
                  FIG. 51.—Microsporophylls of various Conifers: A, Taxus baccata; B, Agathis Dammara; C, Araucaria Brasiliana; D, Cupressus
                      sempervirens; E, Cunninghamia Sinensis; F,
                      Torreya taxifolia; G, Cedrus Deodara; H,
                      Sciadopitys verticillata; I, Dacrydium cupressinum; J, Podocarpus Totara; K, Pinus
                      Laricio.—A-J selected from ENGLER and PRANTL'S Nat. Pflanzenfam.
                 peripheral section of the tapetal layer, and the next outer one being
                composed of very flat tabular cells, which have probably been flattened in the
                process of supplying nutrition to the adjacent tapetal cells. Chamberlain38 has found that the
                microsporangia of Pinus Laricio, Cupressus
                  Lawsoniana, and Taxus
                
                baccata Canadensis are in the mother-cell stage in October, but
                how much earlier they reach this stage he did not discover (Fig. 52). In this
                condition the sporangia pass the winter, and during the 
                  FIG. 52.—Winter condition of microsporangia: A, cross section of sporangium of Pinus
                      Laricio, collected October 1st; B, same, collected
                    January 3d; C, same, collected April 4th; D,
                    sporangium of Taxus baccata Canadensis, collected October 1st.
                    After CHAMBERLAIN.
                 following spring (about May 1st in the case of P.
                  Laricio) the mother cells pass through the reduction division.
            
            
              THE MEGASPORANGIUM
              The structures associated with the megasporangium in Conifers have long been under
                discussion, and the literature of the subject is very extensive. There is such great
                diversity among the various groups that it is difficult to discover any 
                
                  FIG. 53.—Pinus Laricio, branch from
                    the top of a thrifty tree. June 1st; small strobili at extreme top are in stage
                    shown in Fig. 63; in the strobili next below, which are a year older, the
                    archegonium initials are distinguishable (Fig. 64); the strobili next below,
                    another year older, have shed their seeds; to the right is a cluster of
                    staminate strobili, just ready to shed their pollen.
                
                 interpretation of the structures which can find
                general application, and yet the groups are so evidently related that any
                explanation of the ovuliferous structures in one group must apply to all. A brief
                statement of the principal differences is as follows:
              In the Abieteae there is a small bract, a very much larger and woody ovuliferous
                scale coalescent with the bract at the very base, and two inverted basal ovules. In
                the Araucarieae there is a prominent bract, a ligulelike ovuliferous scale (present
                in Araucaria, wanting in Agathis), and a single
                imbedded ovule some distance above the base. In the Taxodieae and Cupresseae there
                is a single bract or scale structure with two distinct apices it the free and
                enlarged end and bearing one (Juniperus) to many (Cupressus) ovules; in Juniperus this structure becomes
                fleshy in the organization of the "berry." In the Taxeae there is a single ovule at
                the end (?) of a short secondary leafy axis, being attached to no scale or bract,
                but becoming inclosed in seed by a colored and fleshy "aril." In the Podocarpeae
                (chiefly Podocarpus) there is an "anatropous" ovule associated
                with a bract but carried up far above on a long stalk, and two integuments (the
                outer becoming fleshy and colored); in some species bracts and axis become fleshy
                and fuse together "into a colored, succulent whole" (Figs. 44, 45, 53-58).
              
                FIG. 54.—Pinus Laricio, diagram of
                  ovule and associated structures; b, bract; s,
                  ovuliferous scale; v, vascular bundles; m,
                  micropyle; i, integument; p, pollen grains;
                    c, cavity in apex of nucellus; n, nucellus;
                    g, embryo sac.
              
              The chief contention has been in reference to the nature of the ovuliferous (or
                seminiferous) scale, and in reference to the integument. A very valuable historical
                study of the subject has been published recently by Worsdell,47 who has brought together in compact form
                the principal views which have been held, and to whom we are indebted for much in
                the following brief account.
              Before 1827, in which year Robert Brown1 announced  gymnospermy, the
                ovuliferous structures were interpreted in terms of Angiosperms, the ovule being
                regarded as a pistil, and the related parts being variously interpreted. Brown's
                conclusion as to a naked ovule was derived from a comparison of the 
                  FIG. 55.—Ovulate structures of various Conifers: 1, Agathis australis, ovuliferous scale from inner side (M, winged seed); 2, longitudinal section of
                      1; 3, Araucaria excelsa, longitudinal
                    section of scale, etc., also showing the outgrowth (i) above
                    the seed; 4, Cunninghamnia Sinensis, ovuliferous scale,
                    showing three ovules (M), and an outgrowth (i); 5, Microcachrys tetragona, longitudinal section of
                    ovuliferous scale, also showing the arillus (a) and the
                    outgrowth (i); 6, Cryptomeria Japonica,
                    longitudinal section of part of the strobilus; 7 and 8, Cupressus Lawsoniana, showing a young cone
                      (7) and a later stage (8); 9,
                      Podocarpus macrophylla, longitudinal section, showing ovulate structures
                    and aril (ar).—From ENGLER and PRANTL'S Nat. Pflanzenfam.
                so-called "ovule" (nucellus) of Cycads and Conifers with the ovule of
                Angiosperms. His corollary was that the ovuliferous scale represents an open carpel,
                but his statement that this so-called carpel is a leaf in the axil of a bract called
                forth strong dissent.
              In 1839 Schleiden2 called
                attention to the fact that Brown's "folium in axilla folii" is a
                morphological impossibility, and that the ovuliferous scale is a flattened axis in
                the form of a placenta, a view concurred in later by Baillon, Dickson, Strasburger,
                and Masters, but without regarding the axis as a placenta, the axial nature of
                placentas in general being one of Schleiden's peculiar views.
              
              In 1845 Von Mohl3 suggested
                that the ovuliferous scale is a leaf of an axillary shoot, but later (1871) he
                modified his view somewhat.
              In 1853 A. Braun4 first
                advanced the theory that the ovuliferous scale represents the first two leaves of an
                axillary shoot, which are fused by their margins, a view held later by Caspary,
                Parlatore, Oersted, Von Mohl, Stenzel, Engelmann, Willkomm, and Čelakovský. Braun's
                illustrative material consisted of a monstrous cone of Larix, in
                which the ovuliferous scale was replaced by a short branch bearing two leaves
                transversely placed, the bract developing as a foliage leaf.
              It may be of interest to note that in 1860 Baillon6 announced his opposition to the theory of
                gymnospermy, a 
                  FIG. 56—Ovulate structures of various Conifers: 1, Abies pectinata, ovulate strobilus; 2,
                    dorsal view of bract and ovuliferous scale; 3, ventral view of
                    same; 4, longitudinal section of same; 5, a
                    winged seed; 6, longitudinal section of seed; 7,
                      Pinus silvestris, ventral view of ovuliferous scale; 8,
                      Larix Europaea, ovuliferous scale, and bract with bristle; 9, longitudinal section of same.—After KERNER.
                 position which he maintained persistently, basing it upon the first really
                careful researches in the organogeny of the structures under discussion. He
                sustained Schleiden's view that the  ovuliferous scale
                is an axis, but regarded it as an axillary shoot rather than a placenta.
              In the same year (1860) Dickson8 recorded some cones of the Norway spruce (Picea
                excelsa) in which the lower bracts were replaced by stamens, while the upper
                bracts bore axillary 
                  FIG. 57.—Cephalotaxus spp.:
                    staminate branch and details of structure (a-g) of C. Fortunei; ovulate branch of C.
                    pedunculata.-From ENGLER and PRANTL'S
                    Nat. Pflanzenfam.
                 scales as in the normal ovuliferous cone. His position, therefore, was
                that stamens are to be homologized with the bracts of the ovuliferous cone, and that
                the ovuliferous scales represent axes of the next higher order, and are "simple
                flattened shoots," as Schleiden had urged. It may be remarked that  similar monstrosity has been reported by Shaw34 in connection with the cones
                of Sequoia. For some, such illustrations settle the sporophyll
                character of the bract, which to them therefore becomes the carpel in the
                ovuliferous cone (Figs. 59, 60).
              In 1860 also Caspary7
                confirmed Braun's conclusion, citing abnormal specimens in which branches occurred
                in the axils of the bracts, and bearing the two halves of the ovuliferous scale as
                lateral appendages.
              
                FIG. 58.—Podocarpus spp.: staminate
                  and ovulate branches from P. Totara; a,
                  microsporophyll; b, ovulate structures; c,
                  longitudinal section of same; d, ovulate structures from P. macrophylla; e, longitudinal section of
                  same.—Branches and a-c after HOOKER;
                  whole plate from ENGLER and PRANTL'S Nat.
                  Pflanzenfam.
              
              In 1864 Parlatore11 recorded
                a monstrous cone of Pinus Pinaster (P.
                Lemoniana) in which an ordinary spur shoot with its two needle leaves sprang
                from the axil of every alternate bract, replacing an ovuliferous scale. His
                conclusions naturally accorded with those of Braun.
              In the same year (1864) Oersted10 recorded some remarkable cones, in which the lowest bracts had the form
                of foliage leaves; in the axils of the next higher ones were several scales as on a
                suppressed axis, the two outermost being largest and opposite; higher up the bracts
                became gradually smaller and the axillary scales less numerous, but the two
                outermost scales gradually increased in size and became connate by their posterior
                margins, while rudimentary ovules appeared at their base; in the uppermost part of
                the cone the bract was reduced to its ordinary size, and the ovuliferous scales had
                fused into a single large broad structure dentate or bifid at the apex. His
                conclusion in general was that of Braun, but in his detailed application he  regarded the ovuliferous scale in Abieteae as an open
                carpel, which is lacking in Cupresseae.
              One of the simplest explanations of these problematical structures was that
                proposed by Sachs13 in 1868,
                and afterward elaborated more fully by Eichler.18 They contended that the 
                  FIG. 59.—Abnormal strobili of Abies
                    sp.: the staminate cone at lower right-hand corner is almost normal; all the
                    others have microsporangia both above and below, with ovuliferous scales
                    between.
                 bract is a carpel and the ovuliferous scale a ligular outgrowth from it,
                calling attention to a similar condition of things in the leaves of Isoetes and Selaginella. Such a ligular placenta does not
                appear in certain groups, as Cupresseae, Taxodicae, and Podocarpeae, and in these
                cases the bract is evidently an open carpel. The simplicity of this explanation has
                commended it to writers of text-books, and hence it is perhaps the view which is
                most current.
              In 1869 Van Tieghem14
                presented his conclusions based upon anatomical structure—a new point of view.
                He claimed that the ovuliferous scale is the first and only leaf of an axillary
                branch, although he suggested the possibility of two fused leaves, and bases his
                statement on the course and orientation of the bundles. He states that the bundles
                of bract and ovuliferous scale leave the main axis each in its own sheath, and thus
                represent independent systems of bundles; that the uppermost divides and forms an
                arc with inverted orientation, the  arrangement of
                bundles in the arc showing that the axillary structure is a leaf and not a branch;
                and that the reversed orientation shows that the leaf belongs upon the suppressed
                branch opposite the bract. This is not Robert Brown's view of an axillary carpel,
                but rather Alexander Braun's view that the ovuliferous scale is the leaf of an
                axillary branch.
              In 1871 Von Mohl16 further
                strengthened Braun's position by the publication of his studies of the peculiar
                "double leaf" of Sciadopitys. He showed that this leaf represents
                the first two leaves of an axillary shoot, which stand transversely, and which
                become coalescent by their posterior (toward the axis) edges, the vascular bundles
                thus showing reversed orientation. As this normal behavior of the leaves of Sciadopitys exactly parallels what was claimed by Braun for the
                ovuliferous scale, the results of Von Mohl are almost in the nature of a
                demonstration.
              In 1872 Strasburger17
                announced his adherence to the view that the ovuliferous scale is a flattened axis,
                at the same time combating the idea of gymnospermy. While later24 his views 
                  FIG. 60.—Microsporangia from the strobili shown in
                    Fig. 59: A, normal sporophyll, side view; B,
                    slightly modified sporophyll from summit of a bisporangiate strobilus; C and D, side and front views of sporophylls
                    from summit of a bisporangiate strobilus; E and F, side and front views of sporophylls from the base of a bisporangiate
                    strobilus.
                 in reference to gymnospermy became modified, he held to the axial nature
                of the scale.
              In 1876 Stenzel20 described
                striking abnormalities in Picea excelsa. In one cone leafy axes
                occurred in the axils of the bracts, the first two leaves resembling ovuliferous
                scales more than ordinary foliage leaves in texture. In other cones the
                abnormalities recorded by Dickson8 were observed. In still  other cones he
                found the two parts of the ovuliferous scale in all stages of coalescence. All of
                his material confirmed Braun's view that the ovuliferous scale is made up of the
                first two leaves of an axillary shoot, which stand transversely, and are connate by
                their axial edges. It may be of interest to note in this connection that such a view
                would refer the megasporangia to the morphologically under surface of the leaf, and
                in so doing would make them conform with the microsporangia in this respect.
              In the same year (1876) Engelmann,19 in reviewing Stenzel's paper, reported similar monstrosities in cones of
                  Picea Engelmanni and Tsuga Canadensis.
              In 1879 Čelakovský23,25,29,35 began publishing upon the subject, and has constructed a
                theory which seems to unify more nearly than any other the puzzling diversities of
                structure. In the first place, he regards the ovuliferous scale as the
                representative of an axillary shoot, confirming in general Braun's view. He states
                that in this case "Nature takes a short cut," the ovuliferous scale being formed
                directly, rather than an axis with two distinct lateral leaves. Moreover, he sees in
                the ovuliferous scale, which has assumed a permanently vegetative character, the
                modified and blended outer integuments of the two ovules. Therefore, there is
                present no true carpel in Conifers, this structure being reduced, so to speak, to a
                single ovule. The microsporophyll corresponds to the bract of the megasporangiate
                cone, which subtends the axis which bears the hypothetical megasporophyll
                (represented only by the ovule), the latter being on a shoot of higher order. As a
                consequence, the axillary ovuliferous structure corresponds to the axillary spur
                shoot of Ginkgo and the main axis of Cycads. In applying this
                doctrine of an outer integument in all Conifers, Čelakovský reaches the following
                conclusions: In the Taxaceae, certainly the older of the two great groups of
                Conifers, the two normal integuments are evident, being distinct in Taxus, Dacrydium, Microcachrys (the
                outer being the "aril"), and represented by the fleshy and bony layers of the seed
                in Cephalotaxus and Podocarpus, as in Cycads and
                  Ginkgo. In Araucarieae, Abieteae, and Cupresseae, the outer
                integument is the ovuliferous scale (or half of it), being developed after the
                sporangium and showing the inverted orientation, facts true of all outer
                integuments. In this outer integument he sees the ligule of Isoetes
                 and Selaginella, and in the inner
                integument the indusium of Ferns and velum of Isoetes.
              It would seem as though all possible explanations had been suggested. Upon sifting
                the testimony certain things seem to be fairly clear, and one is that the scale and
                its ovules in Abieteae represent a highly modified axillary shoot, corresponding to
                the characteristic spur shoot of the group. In Taxus, representing
                the more primitive forms, this ovuliferous spur shoot develops normally, bearing a
                few leaves, and organizing its ovule in a terminal position, but really in the axil
                of the upper-most leaf, a fact further emphasized by the lateral and axillary ovule
                of the allied Torreya. In these cases the ovule is distinctly
                cauline in origin, and holds the same relation to the subtending bract as does the
                sporangium of Selaginella. Perhaps too much stress has been laid
                upon the relation of the ovule to the member which produces it. It may be developed
                from the upper or under surface of the leaf, or from the axis, in the same alliance,
                but always from periblem tissue. One may expect all of these external expressions of
                its origin in so ancient and diversified a group as the Conifers, and the desire for
                absolute uniformity in this regard will probably not be realized. The same spur
                shoot appears in a somewhat elongated and naked form in Cephalotaxus, while in Podocarpus it is more or less
                leafy, the uppermost leaf or two bearing an axillary and stalked ovule. Among the
                Pinaceae the ovuliferous spur shoot reaches its extreme modification, being
                represented only by its first two leaves, which have fused to form the ovuliferous
                scale, and this scale may be more or less coalescent with the subtending bract.
                Whether those leaves of the spur shoot which are intimately associated with ovules,
                either bearing or subtending them, are to be regarded as carpels or as modified
                outer integuments is a question we are in no position to answer. It seems simpler to
                regard them as carpels—that is, leaves modified to bear or subtend ovules, and
                such a view will be adopted in this book, though not strenuously insisted upon.
              Our knowledge of the development of the megasporangium and of the megaspore in
                Conifers does not permit generalization, and it is impossible to give an account
                which will include the whole group. One remarkable feature in the forms studied,
                which may belong to the group in general, is the extreme  slowness with which these structures develop. We have obtained exact information
                concerning this feature in Pinus Laricio. In the spring, young
                ovules with distinct integument and nucellus are found, but with no apparent
                differentiation of sporogenous tissue. It should be remarked that at this season
                  Strasburger24 found the
                mother cell differentiated in Larix, and suggested that the ovule
                had passed the previous winter in this condition. In May the mother cell in Pinus becomes very apparent through great increase in size. It is
                this stage which is to be 
                  FIG. 61.—Larix Europœa: A, longitudinal section of a young ovule, showing the megaspore mother
                    cell and tapetal cells, also at the left the beginning of the integument (March
                    1st); B, first division of the mother cell; C, the three cells derived from the mother cell; D,
                    the beginning of the free nuclear division within the functional megaspore; x
                    150.—After STRASBURGER.
                 observed in the youngest evident cones, such as appear at the very top of
                Fig. 53. In the following October the endosperm has begun to develop, and is found
                as a parietal cytoplasmic layer with few to numerous imbedded nuclei and a central
                vacuole (Fig. 62), and in this condition the second winter is passed. In the
                following spring the endosperm begins to develop rapidly, and in June the archegonia
                are ready for  fertilization, which occurs about the
                1st of July, at least twenty-one months after the first organization of the ovule.
                It should also be remembered that after fertilization the seed is not shed until the
                following year, fully three years after the first appearance of the ovule.
                Practically the same history was reported by Strasburger24 in the case of Larix, and it
                probably represents a common condition among Conifers, a condition which is hard to
                detect without the greatest care.
              
                FIG. 62.—Pinus Laricio, condition of
                  megasporangium on May 1st: i, integument; p,
                  pollen tube; n, nucellus; g, beginning of
                  gametophyte, the embryo sac being surrounded by a definite region of breaking down
                  tissue.
              
              The portion of this long history which concerns us at present ends with the
                distinct organization of the mother cell, and it is this very period which seems to
                have received the least attention. There is current the general statement that the
                archesporium is differentiated very early as one or more hypodermal cells. While the
                probabilities are largely in favor of the truth of this statement, we have
                discovered no complete series of figures to substantiate it except those of Larix given by Strasburger.24 In the same connection he gives certian figures of Taxus which indicate the same fact, and also remarks that Thuja, Pinus silvestris, and Pinus
                  Pumilio are essentially the same as Larix in this regard.
                It should be remembered, therefore, that the only close series is from Larix, and that the series is the same in other forms is more or less a
                matter of inference from fragmentary observations (Fig. 61).
              A periclinal wall divides each archesporial cell into an outer primary wall cell
                and an inner primary sporogenous cell. The wall cells divide repeatedly, and as
                these divisions are accompanied by division of the overlying epidermal cells an
                extensive mass of sterile nucellar tissue is developed between the micropyle and the
                sporogenous cells. Moreover, the divisions are so regular that definite rows of
                sterile cells extend from the sporogenous tissue to the tip of the nucellus. So far
                as recorded, the nucellus in Conifers does not develop the persistent beak  characteristic of Cycads and Ginkgo,
                and the extinct groups; nor is there any distinctly organized pollen chamber,
                although we have observed in Pinus that the nucellus breaks down
                at the apex, so that the pollen grains lie in a cuplike depression.
              Although the primary sporogenous cells are cut off by the hypodermal layer they are
                not distinguishable from the neighboring cells until they have become deeply placed
                in the chalazal 
                  FIG. 63.—Pinus Laricio, longitudinal
                    section of megasporangia June 1st, with megaspore mother cell in the center,
                    surrounded by a region of more or less modified cells; the nucleus of the mother
                    cell is in the prophase of the reduction division; x 500.
                 region of the nucellus, and even then there is no differentiation to
                attract attention until a mother cell begins to enlarge. This tardy differentiation
                of the sporogenous cells in appearance was remarked by Strasburger in the case of
                  Taxus, and we have found it to be strikingly true in Pinus. Apparently the primary sporogenous cells do not divide, but
                one or more of them pass over directly into mother cells. Several mother cells have
                been observed to begin to enlarge in Taxus and in Sequoia, but  in Larix and
                  Pinus never more than a single one has been observed to become
                distinct from the neighboring cells.
              In our figure of a mother cell of Pinus Laricio imbedded in
                nucellar tissue (Fig. 63), it is apparent that it is surrounded by a rather definite
                zone of cells, two to four layers in depth, which give evidence of breaking down.
                After endosperm formation is somewhat advanced, this investing zone becomes
                differentiated into two distinct regions, an outer layer of tabular, almost empty
                cells, and an inner region of polygonal cells with densely staining contents. It is
                this appearance which has sometimes led to the impression that a definite tapetum
                surrounds a sporogenous mass. The most usual mistake, however, is to regard the
                distinct mass of polygonal cells as endosperm cells, overlooking the comparatively
                inconspicuous embryo sac, a mistake made by Hofmeister9 and corrected by Strasburger.24
              As the mother cell enlarges, its nucellus begins to show signs of the organization
                which precedes the reduction division and would result in the first appearance of
                the gametophyte. It may be of interest to note that after the mother cell has begun
                to enlarge it becomes full of starch, but by the time it has reached the spirem
                stage for division the starch has disappeared. How far the history outlined above is
                uniform throughout Conifers must be left to subsequent investigation to
                determine.
              In Sequoia Shaw34 has observed an interesting modification. When the growth of sterile
                tissue at the apex of the nucellus has covered the sporogenous cells with five or
                six layers, the sterile tissue of the nucellus beneath the sporogenous region begins
                rapid division and elongation, again placing the sporogenous tissue relatively high
                in the nucellus.
            
          
          
            III. THE GAMETOPHYTES
            
              THE FEMALE GAMETOPHYTE
              The female gametophyte begins with the reduction division of the megaspore mother
                cell. In the cases investigated, the mother cells seem to be the primary sporogenous
                cells, which form a more or less extensive group, and which, although originating
                from hypodermal cells, have become deeply placed beneath the extensively developed
                sterile wall tissue. The deeply placed mother cells (one in Larix
                and Pinus, usually more in Taxus
                 and Sequoia), after considerable
                increase in size, presumably pass through the reduction division, although this has
                never been definitely observed. The reduction number of chromosomes was observed by
                  Dixon33 in the endosperm
                cells of Pinus silvestris; while Blackman37 and Chamberlain39 definitely counted twelve chromosomes in
                the endosperm of Pinus silvestris and Pinus
                  Laricio respectively. In the case of Larix Strasburger24 has demonstrated the
                existence of a row of three cells derived from the mother cell (Fig. 61), and in Taxus the same number and sometimes more, in both cases the lowest
                cell becoming the fertile megaspore. The same investigator makes the general
                statement that Thuja, Pinus silvestris, and Pinus Pumilio are essentially similar. We have recently discovered
                this stage in Pinus Laricio (Fig. 106), too late to include the
                figure at this place. A row of four potential megaspores is very evident, the lowest
                one becoming functional, the other three appearing for a time as a densely staining
                cap. In the preparation figured the original wall of the mother cell is sharply
                defined, but the walls between the disintegrating cells are very indistinct.
              In case several mother cells are functional, as in Taxus and Sequoia, several megaspores may begin to enlarge simultaneously, but
                one soon dominates, and enlarging at the expense not only of the other megaspores,
                but also of the adjacent sterile tissue, becomes the single very large fertile
                megaspore of the sporangium. Sometimes the sterile megaspores are somewhat prominent
                in the nucellus, and in Sequoia Shaw34 records them as clustered about the upper third or
                fourth of the remarkably elongated functional megaspore.
              The usual account of the germination of the megaspore and the development of the
                archegonia has been derived from the publications of Hofmeister9,12 and Strasburger,15,17,21,24,28 but recently much has been added in the
                way of detail. Very early in its history, long before it has attained its
                fertilization size, the megaspore begins to germinate, and embryo sac* and gametophyte continue growth together
                until the nucellus is largely replaced. The sequence of events is much the same as
                  *For convenience we make an
                  arbitrary distinction between megaspore and embryo sac, the former being the true
                  uninucleate spore, the latter the persistent and growing wall of the megaspore,
                  which continues to invest the gametophyte.
                 that given for Cycads. The megaspore nucleus divides,
                and this is followed by repeated simultaneous nuclear divisions until a large number
                of free nuclei have been organized. According to Jäger,40 about 256 free nuclei appear in Taxus baccata before walls are formed. This represents eight
                successive divisions, and coincides exactly with Hirase's estimate of the free
                nuclei in the embryo sac of Ginkgo previous to the formation of
                walls. Very early in this series of divisions, probably in general when but two or
                four free nuclei have appeared, the nuclei become imbedded in a parietal cytoplasmic
                layer inclosing a large central vacuole (Fig. 62), and in this position free nuclear
                division is completed. Subsequent divisions of the nuclei are accompanied by the
                formation of cell walls and a parietal tissue is organized. From the parietal plate
                of cells the cavity of the embryo sac is gradually filled with tissue, the faces of
                the cells directed toward the center in this advance lacking walls. The more compact
                tissue toward the micropyle organizes archegonia, while the deeper tissue is
                nutritive.
              A deviation from this method of endosperm formation has been reported by Arnold42 as occurring in Sequoia. After the development of the free nuclei, the cytoplasmic layer
                increases in thickness, accumulating especially at the lower end of the sac. Then
                cell formation occurs in the upper and lower extremities of the sac, while free
                nuclear division continues in the central region.
              About the last of May the archegonium initials become apparent. Within a week the
                primary neck cell has been cut off, and the central cell has become much enlarged
                (Fig. 64, A, B). As the archegonia develop, the adjacent endosperm
                tissue continues to grow, so that a more or less evident depression appears over
                each archegonium in case they are scattered (Abieteae), or over each group of
                archegonia in case they are clustered (Cupresseae and Taxodieae). The number of
                archegonia developed by a single gametophyte varies considerably. In Abieteae there
                are three to five; in Taxus baccata five to eleven; in Cupresseae
                five to fifteen, or even thirty. The neck of the archegonium shows much variation.
                In Cycads and Ginkgo the primary neck cell divides but once, by an
                anticlinal wall, forming a neck of two cells, placed side by side as are the guard
                cells of a stoma. In the majority of Conifers observed a plate of four cells is
                derived  from the primary neck cell, and by periclinal
                divisions the single plate becomes two, so that the neck is composed of two tiers of
                cells with four cells in each tier. The recorded deviations are as follows: in Tsuga Canadensis, 31a, 49, and Cephalotaxus Fortunei the neck is usually two-celled, as in Cycads and Ginkgo; in some Cupresseae eight cells occur in each tier; while in
                some specis of Pinus and Picea more than two
                tiers of cells occur, with four or eight cells in each tier.
              After the separation of the neck cell from the central cell, the latter begins a
                remarkable increase in size and receives a 
                  FIG. 64.—Pinus Laricio: A, archegonium initial, May 28th; B, neck and central
                    cells, June 2d; C, central cell just before cutting off the
                    ventral canal cell, June 18th; D, cutting off of the ventral
                    canal cell, June 21st; x 104.
                 large amount of nutritive material (Fig. 64, C). About
                it a definite jacket of endosperm cells is organized, resembling the venter of an
                archegonium. The cells of the jacket become surcharged with protoplasmic material,
                and their nuclei enlarge, while the wall of the central cell becomes thick and very
                distinctly pitted. Through these pits Goroschankin26 first traced a continuity of cytoplasm between central
                cell and jacket cells. Very early in its history, at the beginning of its
                enlargement, the central cell becomes vacuolate, the protoplasmic contents forming
                merely a wall layer, the nucleus retaining its apical position from  the time of the cutting off of the neck cell to the
                cutting off of the ventral canal cell, a period of two or three weeks, beginning
                between the middle of May and the 1st of June, dependent on the season. The central
                cell now begins to receive supplies from the jacket cells, which practically empty
                themselves through the pits. As a consequence, the central cell becomes packed with
                food material, the cytoplasm being filled with large and deeply staining masses,
                even more prominent in the egg, the best organized of which have been called
                "proteid vacuoles." These "vacuoles" of the central cell and egg were regarded by
                Hofmeister and Goroschankin to be nuclear structures, but Strasburger denied their
                nuclear nature, and claimed that they are proteid vacuoles, and such they have been
                regarded ever since, until the recent investigations of Arnoldi.43 He observed that the nuclei of the jacket
                cells become amoeboid, squeeze through the pits, and regain their form in the
                central cell and egg. Nuclei were also observed to pass from the next outer layer
                into the cells of the jacket. In addition to these organized nuclei, nuclear
                fragments and other materials pass in from the jacket cells, which may often be seen
                emptied of their contents.
              The cutting off of the ventral canal cell has been known in a general way since
                  Strasburger24 established
                its existence in Juniperus. The fullest accounts, however, have
                been given by Blackman37 and
                by Chamberlain.39 Just before
                fertilization, which we find in Pinus Laricio to occur about the
                1st of July, he ventral canal cell is cut off (Fig. 64, D). A
                broad spindle, which is almost rectangular in outline before it becomes bipolar, is
                organized at the apical extremity of the central cell, and there appears a thin but
                broad and sinuous cell plate. This cell plate cuts out from the main mass a small
                oval segment, the ventral canal cell (Fig. 65). After the separation of the ventral
                canal cell, its nucleus begins to return to the resting stage, but according to
                Blackman it never reaches it before disorganization sets in. After this the ventral
                canal cell appears in various stages of disorganization, often separating somewhat
                from the egg, and as usually disappeared by the time the pollen tube has penetrated
                the neck of the archegonium, although Chamberlain found occasional traces of it even
                after the embryo was considerably advanced.
              Blackman noted the exact similarity between the nuclei of  the ventral canal cell and of the egg. He called attention to the fact
                that the two cells differ from each other only in the quantity of cytoplasm, and
                concluded that the ventral canal cell
                  FIG. 65.—Pinus Laricio: A, the ordinary spindle in cutting off the ventral canal cell; B, disorganizing ventral canal cell; C, an
                    unusually large spindle in cutting off ventral canal cell, the two nuclei being
                    of the same size and showing the same developmental changes: D, a large ventral canal cell; E, the wall separating a
                    large ventral canal cell and the egg has broken down (n. v.,
                    nucleus of ventral canal cell; n. o., egg nucleus); A-D, x 500.—After CHAMBERLAIN.
                 is evidently an arrested gamete. Chamberlain further strengthened this
                view by discovering a series in which a ventral canal cell very much larger ("eight
                to ten times") than usual was cut off (Fig. 65, C, D). Its nucleus
                had reached the size of the egg  nucleus, and had
                passed through the same peculiar developmental changes. To all appearances it was
                ready for fertilization. The same observer also discovered cases of large ventral
                canal cells and nuclei in which the cell plates separating them from the egg had
                disorganized, giving the appearance of two similar nuclei imbedded in the cytoplasm
                of the egg (Fig. 65, E). It is very probable that this may explain
                such cases of equal nuclei as those recorded by Strasburger,22 Coulter36 (Fig. 66), and others, which were thought to be the
                male and female nuclei approaching for fusion. In any event, it seems clear that the
                ventral canal cell represents an abortive egg, which is occasionally organized as an
                egg, and which may rarely function as one.
              
                FIG. 66.—Pinus Laricio, conjugation of
                  two nuclei described as male (m) and female (f), but which may prove to be the nuclei of the ventral canal cell and the
                  egg (as in Fig. 65, E); x 500.—After COULTER.
              
              In a recent paper by Arnoldi43 upon Cephalotaxus Fortunei a curious procedure in
                reference to the ventral canal cell is recorded. The nucleus of the central cell
                divides as usual, and a ventral canal cell nucleus is formed, but no regular cell is
                organized. Instead of this, the upper part of the cytoplasmic mass, containing the
                ventral canal cell nucleus, is said to become mucilaginous, breaks down the neck
                cells (two in number), and is separated from the egg by a pinching-off process.
                Although there is no real cell formation in the morphological sense, physiologically
                the result is the same as in other cases, a nucleus and some cytoplasm being
                separated from the forming egg.
              
              At the time of its organization, the egg nucleus is no larger than that of the
                ventral canal cell, or of the nutritive jacket cells, but it begins immediately a
                very rapid and a very great 
                  FIG. 67.—Pinus Laricio: Two nuclei
                    showing the collection of the chromatin nucleoli into a definite area; x
                    500.—After CHAMBERLAIN.
                 enlargement. It moves towards the center of the egg with great rapidity,
                and attains a size that seems out of all proportion to its original bulk and to the
                time employed. During this enlargement changes occur in the nucleus which have been
                differently interpreted, but which are decidedly at variance with the cytological
                phenomena observed in the eggs of Angiosperms. The chromatin seems to be very scanty
                and the nucleoli become numerous. Chamberlain30 has concluded that the chromatin takes the form of nucleoli,
                which finally collect from all parts of the nucleus to a definite area near the
                center, where they take the form of elongated masses that undoubtedly represent the
                chromatin of the nucleus (Fig. 67). In the cytoplasm of the egg the nutritive
                materials derived from the jacket cells become prominent, and among them the nuclei
                ("proteid vacuoles") are conspicuous.
            
            
            
              THE MALE GAMETOPHYTE
              The male gametophyte of Conifers has long been known in a general way, but
                  Belajeff,30 investigating
                  Taxus baccata and Juniperus communis in 1891,
                seems to have been the first to recognize the homologies and functions as at present
                understood. In 1892 Strasburger,31 studying a somewhat wider range of forms, notably Larix and Cupressus, extended Belajeff's conclusions to
                Conifers in general. This was followed in 1893 by the further studies of
                  Belajeff32 upon Taxus and Juniperus. In 1894 Dixon33 published a detailed account
                of the male gametophyte of Pinus silvestris, which was followed by
                us in 1896 with confirmatory studies of Pinus Laricio. In 1896
                  Shaw34 published partial
                results of his studies of Sequoia; in 1899 Jäger40 investigated Taxus
                  baccata anew, and with abundant material; recently Coker45 has published some notes 
                  FIG. 68.—Pinus Laricio, showing
                    mitosis in pollen mother cells, May 3d; x 500.
                 on Taxodium distichum; while Arnoldi43 has obtained some interesting results from
                a study of Cephalotaxus Fortunei. These accounts indicate a fairly
                uniform series of events, a uniformity somewhat obscured by the varying terminology
                of the writers. We have secured a very complete series of preparations from Pinus Laricio, and the following account is written from them (Figs.
                68, 69).
              
              The microsporangium passes the winter in the mother-cell stage. About the 1st of
                May the mother cells are found in various stages of the reduction division. The
                divisions do not appear to be so simultaneous as in the Angiosperms, for in the same
                sporangium some mother cells are preparing for the first division, others contain
                completed tetrads, and others represent every stage between (Fig. 68). In the same
                sporangium, also, the division may be simultaneous or successive, although the
                former seems to be the prevailing method; and they may be tetrahedral or bilateral.
                As was stated in connection with the female gametophyte, the reduction number of
                chromosomes in Pinus silvestris and Pinus
                  Laricio has been found to be twelve. In 1892 Strasburger31 counted twelve chromosomes in the
                endosperm of Pinus silvestris. Recently Blackman37 has counted the same number in the
                oosphere, the jacket cells, the ordinary endosperm, and the pollen mother cells;
                while in the first division of the oospore, and in the embryo, twenty-four were
                counted. Chamberlain39
                obtained the same results from Pinus Laricio, counting twelve
                chromosomes in the jacket cells, the ordinary endosperm, and the pollen mother
                cells. The wings of the spores begin to develop while they are within the mother
                cell.
              About May 20th the nucleus of the spore enlarges for its first division (Fig. 69,
                  D), a spindle is formed rapidly (Fig. 69, E),
                and an equal division follows, so far as the mass of chromatin is concerned. Before
                the cell plate is organized, however, the nucleus nearer to the wall of the spore
                begins to disorganize, and the other begins to enlarge (Fig. 69, F). In this way a lenticular and disorganizing cell is cut off against the
                wall of the spore (Fig. 69, G). A second division immediately
                follows, the spindle being observed about May 25th (Fig. 69, H).
                This division is a repetition of the first in details, and the two lenticular cells
                disorganize rapidly (Fig. 69, I), become flattened against the
                spore wall, and very soon appear merely as two thin and darkly staining disks (Fig.
                69, J).
              It seems reasonable to suppose that these two evanescent cells represent a vestige
                of the vegetative tissue of the gametophyte, and they may be called properly
                vegetative cells. It will be remembered that in the Cycads only one such cell is
                said to appear, and that it persists; while in Ginkgo two appear
                and the second one persists.
              
              The third division immediately follows (Fig. 69, J), dividing the
                large antheridial cell into the primary spermatogenous 
                  FIG. 69.—Pinus Laricio, showing a
                    series from the formation of the tetrads to the development of the pollen tube:
                      p, vegetative cells; s, stalk cell; b, body cell; t, tube nucleus: A and B, May 3d; C, May 10th; D-G, May 20th; H-J, May 25th; K, June 15th; L, May 1st (nearly a year after stage
                    shown in K); x 600.
                 cell or generative cell, and the tube cell (the so-called "vegetative
                cell") (Fig. 69, K). Until 1891, when Belajeff30
                 discovered the true functions, the more prominent
                nucleus of the tube cell was regarded as the generative nucleus. By this time the
                large tube cell has become very full of starch, and no further division occurs until
                the following spring, a period of about eleven months. In this condition also
                pollination occurs, and the old spore wall with its contained gametophyte rests in
                the cuplike depression at the apex of the nucellus during all this period.
              
                FIG. 70.—Pinus Laricio, showing
                  flattened end of pollen tube before discharge into the egg; the two male cells are
                  at the tip and above them, but not shown, are the nuclei of the stalk and tube
                  cells; x 500.—After CHAMBERLAIN.
              
              
                FIG. 71.—Pinus Laricio, showing end of
                  pollen tube just before discharge; the male cells (m, m) in this
                  case are behind the nuclei (n) of the tube and stalk cells; s, starch grains; the pit is evident at the extreme tip; x
                  500.—After COULTER.
              
              Dixon33 says that in Pinus silvestris the pollen tube is sent out into the nucellus as
                soon as the grain is deposited, and that it passes a year or even more in the upper
                region of the nucellus, disorganizing the adjacent tissue and producing irregular
                cavities. This seems to be true of Pinus Laricio also, whose
                pollen tubes we have found in the nucellus in June. Coker reports that in Taxodium distichum, however, the pollen tube, sent out immediately
                after pollination, penetrates to the archegonia without interruption. See
                Appendix.
              The pollen tube in Pinus begins to renew its penetration of the
                nucellus during April, about a year after the mother cell entered upon the reduction
                division, the large tube nucleus enters the tube, where it is completely invested by
                starch grains, and at the same time the generative cell divides into  the stalk cell and body cell (Fig. 69, L). In this case the two cells, so far as we have observed or seen figured,
                are "fore and aft" with reference to each other, and not side by side, as in Cycads
                and Ginkgo, the stalk cell being nearer the old spore wall. It
                appears, therefore, that the generative cell persists for about eleven months
                without dividing. The pollen tube branches as it traverses the nucellus, not so
                extensively as do the tubes of Cycads and Ginkgo, but sufficiently
                to give evidence of its primitive service as an absorbing or rhizoidal organ. It
                consumes about two months in traversing the nucellus after its second start,
                entering the archegonium about the 1st of July.
              The liberation and descent of the body cell into the tube, accompanied by the freed
                nucleus of the stalk cell whose wall has been ruptured, and their association with
                the tube nucleus near the tip of the tube, has been described in detail by Dixon for
                  Pinus silvestris, and his account applies as well to Pinus Laricio, except that we find no definite order of arrangement
                in the relative positions of these three bodies.
              
                FIG. 72.—Juniperus Virginiana, showing
                  the ends of two pollen tubes; in the tube to the left the body cell has not yet
                  divided; in the other the division into two male cells has just taken place; in
                  both cases the nuclei of the tube and stalk cells are in front; x 160.—After
                    STRASBURGER.
              
              Just before fertilization, about two months after the division of the generative
                cell into stalk and body cells, the latter divides and forms the two male cells
                (morphologically sperm mother cells). It is this division which in the Cycads is
                accompanied by the appearance of blepharoplasts, and results in the organization of
                two ciliated male cells. So far as observed, however, blepharoplasts do not appear
                in Conifers and the male cells do not become ciliated. This is doubtless associated
                with the fact that in Conifers the pollen tube has become a sperm carrier, while in
                the Cycads it performs no such function. At the time of fertilization, besides dense
                cytoplasm rich in starch, the tip of the pollen tube contains four bodies, namely,
                tube nucleus, stalk cell nucleus, and the two male cells (Figs. 70-72).
              
              The recorded variations from the above account are as follows: In the work upon Taxus, Juniperus, Cupressus, and
                  Sequoia no mention is made of the two ephemeral vegetative
                cells. They are so evanescent, however, that they may well escape the notice of any
                observer who does not have a very close series and good preparations. In Taxus Belajeff30 observed that the body cell divides unequally, the larger male cell
                functioning, and the smaller one remaining in the tube during fertilization,
                apparently incapable of functioning (Fig. 73). In this he was confirmed by
                  Strasburger,31 and very
                recently by Jäger.40 It is 
                  FIG. 73.—Taxus baccata: A, male gametophyte, showing generative cell (a), tube
                    nucleus (t), and young tube (April 10th); B,
                    later stage of same, showing stalk (s) and body (b) cells; C, the large body cell passing into the
                    tube, accompanied by the nuclei of the tube, having divided into two very
                    unequal male cells; E, the larger male cell discharged into
                    the egg; A-C x 230, D and E x 180.—After BELAJEFF.
                 interesting to note that in Arnoldi's recent work on Cephalotaxus Fortunei,43 a genus apparently very closely related to Taxus, the
                two male cells are shown to be of the same size and apparent vigor. In Sequoia Shaw34
                observed that the pollen tube does not penetrate the nucellus immediately, but
                advances across its flat top and turns downward between it and the integument,
                branching freely. Finally, one branch turns into the nucellus about one fifth down
                its length, penetrates obliquely downward  and
                enlarges, and presently becomes indistinguishable among the numerous tortuous
                sterile megaspores which cluster about the upper end of the elongated fertile one.
                The branches of the tube which remain external to the nucellus advance in every
                direction between it and the integument. Such a condition of things suggests the
                free branching rhizoidal habit of the tubes of Cycads and Ginkgo,
                although in them the branching is within the body of the nucellus. See Appendix.
            
            
              FERTILIZATION
              The tip of the pollen tube, having penetrated the overlying tissue of the nucellus,
                reaches the wall of the embryo sac, and either passes directly through it or
                flattens out upon it in a foot-like expansion, sending out a small branch to pierce
                the wall. In any event, the tube, or a branch of it, reaches the neck of the
                archegonium, crushes the neck cells, and comes in contact with the egg.
              This contact may be regarded as the beginning of the process of fertilization,
                which ends with the fusion of the sexual nuclei. Jäger40 reports that in Taxus baccata the
                tube reaches the egg about June 1st; Coker45 states that the date for Taxodium
                  distichum is about June 15th; the same date is given by Arnoldi43 for Cephalotaxus
                  Fortunei; while in Pinus Laricio we find the date to be
                about July 1st. Of course the dates vary somewhat with the season and with the
                latitude.
              It has been shown by Blackman37 and confirmed by Chamberlain39 that the tip of the tube becomes fused with the egg
                membrane, and does not enter the cytoplasm, as usually stated. The appearance of an
                elongated and well-defined cavity in the cytoplasm of the upper part of the egg is
                due to the inrush of the contents of the tube (Figs. 74, 76, B).
              The pit in the tip of the tube was described by Hofmeister,5 Strasburger,15 and others, but they claimed that it remains closed by the
                primary wall membrane. In 1883 Goroschankin26 stated that he saw the pit perforated in Pinus
                  Pumilio, which was fully confirmed by Dixon33 in Pinus silvestris, and by
                  Blackman37 in the same
                species (Fig. 71). Nearly the whole of the contents of the tube is injected into the
                cytoplasm of the egg. In Pinus Pumilio, Goroschankin26 observed both male cells pass
                in, and Strasburger28
                confirmed it for Picea vulgaris. Dixon33
                 seems to have been the first to see all the four
                structures in the pollen tube injected into the egg, an observation which has been
                frequently confirmed since. It should be remembered, however, that in the case of
                  Taxus baccata Belajeff30 reports the passing into the egg of a single male cell only,
                the smaller one remaining in the tube. In Pinus, in Taxodium as shown by Coker,45 and in Cephalotaxus as shown by Arnoldi,43 the upper part of the
                cytoplasm of the egg, after the discharge of the tube, contains two male cells, the
                disorganizing tube nucleus and stalk cell nucleus, besides cytoplasm of the tube and
                starch grains. The cytoplasm of the male cells is no longer distinguishable, and
                their nuclei may be recognized by their large size and more deeply staining contents
                as compared with the tube and stalk cell nuclei, which can hardly be distinguished
                from each other.
              
                FIG. 74.—Pinus silvestris, the male
                  nucleus entering the female nucleus (June 19th); x 135.—After BLACKMAN.
              
              One male nucleus moves forward through the cytoplasm of the egg, the other three
                injected bodies remaining near the top of the egg and gradually disappearing.
                  Arnoldi43 makes an
                interesting observation in connection with the functionless male cell in Cephalotaxus Fortunei. He reports that as it lies unused in the
                peripheral region of the cytoplasm of the egg it may divide amitotically, one of his
                figures showing six nuclei as having been derived from a single functionless male
                nucleus. According to Blackman,37 the functional male nucleus moves very rapidly and increases in size, an
                increase apparently due in some cases to actual increase of stainable substance, and
                in others to vacuolation. The male nucleus of Pinus is nearly
                spherical, with a diameter of about 40μ, and is usually one third (rarely one half)
                the diameter of the ellipsoidal or egg-shaped nucleus of the egg.
              The behavior of the male nucleus after it reaches the egg nucleus is peculiar (Fig.
                74). According to Blackman, it pushes in the membrane of the egg nucleus, and
                finally comes to lie within  it, both walls being
                intact. At this time similar changes occur in the contents of both nuclei, and the
                spindle of the first segmentation begins to organize while the two nuclei are still
                distinct. Blackman claims that no resting fertilized nucleus is ever formed,
                although in all other known plants the male and female nuclei fuse while in the
                resting condition and form a definite resting fertilized nucleus. Chamberlain
                confirms this so far as to state that the two nuclei are in the spirem stage after
                the male nucleus has entered the female nucleus (Fig. 75). Woycicki41 has also observed in Larix
                  Dahurica that in some cases after the coalescence of the two nuclei two
                separate chromatin groups are to be distinguished, one of which he would regard as
                the male, and the other the female group. Such behavior finds its parallel among
                animals, as in Ascaris,*
                but not among plants, so far as known. The process of fusion is exceedingly slow,
                according to Blackman beginning when the male and female nuclei begin to react upon
                one another, and closing when the half chromosomes, derived from the male and female
                nuclei respectively, fuse at the poles of the first segmentation spindle. See
                Appendix.
              
                FIG. 75.—Pinus Laricio, the chromatin
                  of the male and female nuclei in the spirem stage within the limits of the female
                  nucleus; x 500.—After CHAMBERLAIN.
              
              Some minor deviations from this account of Blackman, given for Pinus, have been observed by Coker45 in Taxodium distichum, and by
                  Jäger40 in Taxus baccata. In the former the two nuclei come in contact near the upper
                end of the egg and travel together toward the base, not fusing completely till the
                  *"In Van Beneden's epoch-making
                  work on Ascaris it was shown not only that the nuclei do not
                  fuse, but that they give rise to two independent groups of chromosomes which
                  separately enter the equatorial plate and whose descendants pass separately into
                  the daughter nuclei. Later observations have given the strongest reason to believe
                  that, as far as the chromatin is concerned, a true fusion of the nuclei never
                  takes place during fertilization, and that the paternal and maternal chromatin may remain separate and distinct in the later stages of
                  development—possibly throughout life."—Wilson's The Cell in
                  Development and Inheritance, second edition, p. 204.
                 bottom is nearly or quite reached. In Taxus there is the same passing of the paired nuclei to the bottom of the
                egg for fusion, and they are also reported as being of the same size. Perhaps it is
                well to call attention to the fact that two free nuclei from the early divisions of
                the fusion nucleus might be mistaken for male and female nuclei unless the latter
                had been previously observed and their great difference recognized. These free
                nuclei are of the same size and pass to the bottom of the oospore. It is also very
                possible that in some cases the ventral canal cell is fertilized rather than the
                egg; and there are some grounds for believing that the nuclei of the ventral canal
                cell and of the egg may fuse, suggesting what has been observed among animals in
                cases of parthenogenesis (Wilson, loc. cit., pp. 280-283).
            
          
          
            IV. THE EMBRYO
            The first adequate account of the development of the embryo in Conifers was that
              given by Strasburger in 1872.17
              Later the same author24
              published more fully upon the subject, and several investigators since have touched
              upon the embryogeny of Conifers; but the whole subject is in need of more detailed
              investigation. While the earlier stages of the embryo are fairly well known, our
              knowledge of the development of the embryo proper is little more than an outline. We
              have obtained a complete series of the early stages in Pinus
              Laricio, and from it the following account is written.
            
              
                1. Development of Proembryo.—The fusion nucleus retains
                  its central position in the cytoplasm of the oospore (Fig. 76, A), and, beginning to divide, organizes the largest spindle of the free
                  nuclear series (Fig. 77), as in Cycads and Ginkgo. The axis of
                  this spindle is always inclined to the long axis of the archegonium, and its
                  fibers are not at all convergent, resulting in a broad rectangular outline. The
                  two daughter nuclei are very small at first, but increase rapidly in size, and
                  then simultaneously divide. The four free nuclei which are formed by this second
                  division are at first very small, but increase in size both through vacuolation
                  and by taking in substance (Fig. 76, B). When the four nuclei
                  have reached their full size, they begin to move toward the base of the spore, and
                  at this time show an investment of strong fibers, which  are directed tangentially. Chamberlain39 thinks that this tangential direction of fibers is
                  caused by the rotation of the nuclei 
                    FIG. 76.—Pinus Laricio, early
                      stage in the development of the embryo: A, fusion of male
                      and female nuclei; B, the first four nuclei of the
                      proembryo, also numerous nuclei from the jacket cells (p,
                      pollen tube; n, cavities caused by inrush of contents of
                      pollen tubes); C, the four nuclei at the base of the egg and
                      dividing; D, the first plate of four cells; E, a somewhat later stage, showing partial cleavage of the main mass
                      of the egg; F, two plates of cells, the lower cells in
                      process of division; G, the three tiers of cells of the
                      completed proembryo, with the four free nuclei above them (r, "rosette" tier; s, suspensor tier); H, the suspensor tier (s) beginning to elongate; A-C collected June 25th, D-G July 2d; x
                      104.
                  
                   as they descend. Upon reaching the base of the
                  oospore the four nuclei arrange themselves in a plane and become ensheathed by
                  fibers derived from the nuclear membrane. Two walls are then formed at right
                  angles to each other and to the base of the spore, each nucleus thus being
                  separated from the others, but freely exposed above to the general cytoplasm of
                  the spore. Blackman37
                  speaks of "each nucleus thus being at the bottom of a kind of shaft that opens
                  above," and the same author thinks that the ensheathing fibers, which disappear at
                  this time, have some intimate connection with the formation of the walls. In any
                  event, the appearance of these first incomplete walls is quite apart from nuclear
                  division, and the incomplete segmentation of the cytoplasm present a peculiarity
                  which is paralleled in the yolked eggs of certain animals. In fact, the method of
                  receiving food supply into the egg, the organization of a small group of cells to
                  develop the embryo, the setting aside of the great mass of the oospore as a
                  nutritive supply, and the appearance of the peculiar walls about the basal nuclei
                  segmenting more or less the cytoplasmic mass but not cutting it off, are facts
                  which are all more suggestive of the embryogeny of certain animals than of other
                  plants. Chamberlain observed one case in which the first and second segmentations
                  of the fusion nucleus were accompanied by walls, a four-celled group thus
                  appearing near the center of the oospore.
                
                  FIG. 77.—Pinus Laricio, the first
                    division of the nucleus of the oospore; the entire mitotic figure is
                    intranuclear; x 500.—After CHAMBERLAIN.
                
                According to our observation, the walls which separate the four primitive nuclei,
                  as mentioned above, do not appear until after the nuclei are in an advanced stage
                  of division (Fig. 76, C). The spindles formed by the four basal
                  nuclei are extremely broad and multipolar, but the later spindles are definitely
                  bipolar. The basal nuclei divide simultaneously in a plane transverse  to the long axis of the oospore, a tier of four
                  completely walled cells thus being cut off below (Fig. 76, D),
                  the upper nuclei still being freely exposed above to the partially segmented
                  cytoplasm of the spore (Fig. 76, E), and increasing very much in
                  size. The cells of the single completely walled tier then divide simultaneously,
                  and two tiers are organized (Fig. 76, F). The process is again
                  repeated by the lower tier, and the result is three tiers of four cells each (Fig.
                  76, G). With the appearance of this last tier the development of
                  the proembryo ceases. At this stage, therefore, there are three complete tiers,
                  with four cells in each tier, and above these completely walled cells there are
                  the four nuclei separated from one another by walls, but freely exposed above to
                  the food supply of the spore. By their size and generally active appearance it
                  would seem that they must continue functional for some time in connection with
                  nutritive work.
                It will be noted that the proembryo in Conifers differs from that in Cycads in
                  the fact that free nuclear division is much restricted, resulting usually in a
                  group of four nuclei rather than a great number; that as a result there is no
                  development of tissue in a parietal position; that the tissue developed at the
                  base of the oospore is more definite and limited as to number of cells and their
                  functions. At the same time, the evidence seems clear that the proembryo of
                  Conifers must have been derived from just such a condition as is shown by the
                  proembryo of Cycads and Ginkgo.
                While this account probably applies in outline to Conifers in general, there are
                  differences in certain details which are suggestive. The outline which seems to
                  apply to all Conifers is as follows: the development of free nuclei from the
                  fusion nucleus, the placing of these nuclei in a plane at the bottom of he
                  oospore, the appearance of incomplete walls separating the nuclei from one another
                  but permitting their free exposure to he nutritive mass above, the development
                  from this plate of nuclei of three tiers of completely walled cells, the
                  development of the embryo from the lowest tier of cells, the development of the
                  suspensor from the middle tier, and the retention of the uppermost tier in the
                  oospore.
                The details which differ from those given in the above account for Pinus are as follows: Recently Arnoldi43 has  described a most
                  interesting modification in the formation of the proembryo in Cephalotaxus. The egg nucleus "divides three or four times," which means
                  the production of eight or sixteen free nuclei. These nuclei pass to the bottom of
                  the oospore and divide further, giving rise to "a number" of free cells, which
                  organize tiers "as in Taxus." Just how these numerous free cells
                  organize the tiers the author does not state, and his figures indicate that the
                  condition of his preparations would forbid any claim beyond the mere existence of
                  tiers. The number of free nuclei and cells, however, before the organization of
                  tissue, is the important point, and indicates what would seem to be the most
                  primitive embryogeny among the Conifers. Although normally in Pinus an embryo is developed at the end of each suspensor cell—that
                  is, a single oospore gives rise to four embryos—we found in P.
                    Laricio cases of a single embryo developing from the plate of four cells
                  carried down by the four suspensors. It seems that this is the normal behavior in
                    Picea excelsa, in which the suspensors remain coherent,
                  forming a single compound suspensor at the end of which a single embryo develops.
                  So far as the records go, the development of a single embryo from the embryonal
                  plate seems to be true in all groups excepting Abieteae. Among the Cupresseae it
                  is reported that each of the three tiers of the proembryo is originally a single
                  cell, either remaining so, as in Cupressus, or dividing, with
                  the exception of the embryonal cell, as in Thuja, or all
                  dividing, as in Juniperus. If this sequence of events be true,
                  it would seem to follow that in these cases the fusion nucleus passes to the
                  bottom of the oospore without division, and there behaves in building up tiers
                  just as do the four basal nuclei in the case of Pinus. Such
                  statements, however, need further investigation. The number of cells in each tier
                  may also vary from four, the usual number in Taxus being six,
                  and sometimes reaching even ten.
              
              
                2. Development of Suspensor.—The suspensor, or rather the
                  four suspensors, are formed by the remarkable elongation of the cells which form
                  the middle tier (Fig. 76, H). The lowest tier is thus carried
                  down into the midst of the endosperm, and the uppermost tier remains in the base
                  of the oospore, forming the so-called "rosette" of Schacht. The suspensors become
                  long and tortuous (Fig. 78, A), and each bears at its tip one of
                  the  four cells of the embryonal tier, each of which
                  begins the development of an embryo.
                In many Conifers the appearance of embryonal tubes is a prominent feature. These
                  tubular processes are developed from basal cells of the embryo, and seem to serve
                  as additional absorbing organs (Fig. 78, B). They are found
                  investing the suspensor and the base of the embryo, and are sometimes exceedingly
                  numerous.
                
                  FIG. 78.—Pinus Laricio, showing
                    young embryo: A, two young embryos with long suspensors; B, an older embryo, showing three embryonal tubes.
                
              
              
                3. Development of Embryo.—Concerning the development of
                  the embryo proper our knowledge is meager. In every case, with the exceptions
                  noted below, it is developed from the lowest cell or tier of cells at the base of
                  the oospore, the tier which is carried down by the suspensor. As has been stated,
                  the cells of this embryonal plate, usually four or six in number, may together
                  organize a single embryo, or in Abieteae each one is more apt to develop
                  separately. We observed one case in Pinus Laricio which may
                  serve to indicate the possibilities in connection with the  development of embryos. At the end of a single suspensor two embryos
                  had begun to develop, the first division of the embryonal cell having been
                  longitudinal, and the two daughter cells having become so organically dissociated
                  that they pursued their further history independently. The embryo may thus start
                  with a plate of cells or with a single cell, and hence there is probably no very
                  definite sequence of events. In the case of embryos which develop from a single
                  cell, the first two or three divisions are usually transverse (Fig. 78), although
                  cases have been found in which the first wall is vertical. Whether there is any
                  definite sequence of events or not between these early stages of the embryo and
                  the organization of its great regions (Fig. 79) is uncertain, but it is probable
                  that the behavior of these primitive cells may be exceedingly variable, dependent
                  upon conditions which have not yet been recognized.
                
                  FIG. 79.—Pinus Laricio, a fully
                    developed embryo imbedded in the endosperm.
                
                The current statements as to the structure of the root and stem tips of
                  Gymnosperms have been derived mainly from Strasburger.17 In reference to the root tip this author
                  states that in Gymnosperms in general the differentiation of meristem at the apex
                  of the root is essentially different from that of Angiosperms. A full statement of
                  the difference was given under the root. The differentiation of the regions at the
                  apex of the stem shows considerable variation in Gymnosperms. As was remarked
                  under the stem, in Dammara, Cunninghamia, and
                  certain species of Araucaria, the dermatogen, periblem, and
                  plerome are clearly distinguishable at the very apex; while in the Abieteae the
                  three regions merge in a common group of initials, a character shared by the
                  Cycads. It is interesting  to note that in Ephedra, even in the same species (E.
                    campylopoda), both conditions are found.
                Strasburger24 records a
                  remarkable embryonic structure in Cephalotaxus Fortunei and Araucaria Brasiliana. The stem tip, instead of being absolutely
                  terminal, is covered by a small group or layer of cells which is soon thrown off,
                  but seems for a time to serve as an organ of penetration and protection, finding
                  its analogue in the root cap (Figs. 80, 81). The presence of this terminal group
                  is reported to result in a shifting of the functions of the tiers of the proembryo
                  (Fig. 80). The lowest tier, which ordinarily develops the embryo, in these cases
                  organizes an embryo cap; the middle tier, which ordinarily develops the suspensor,
                  organizes the embryo; the uppermost tier, or "rosette" of Schacht, develops the
                  suspensor; while a fourth tier, apparently organized by the uppermost nuclei which
                  are exposed above to the cytoplasm of the spore, functions as the rosette. It is
                  evident that the statement sometimes made that the stem tips of these peculiar
                  embryos are "endogenous" is not true in the same sense that roots are
                  endogenous.
                The recorded numbers of cotyledons are as follows: two in Taxaceae, in Cupresseae
                  generally, and in some species of Araucaria; three to five in
                  some Cupresseae; four to nine in Taxodieae; and five to fifteen in Abieteae.
                
                  FIG. 80.—Cephalotaxus Fortunei: A, a proembryo still within the oospore, showing the cap of
                    cells protesting the embryo proper (shaded); B, a later stage,
                    in which the suspensor (s) has developed; x 63.—After
                      STRASBURGER.
                
                Seed and Fruit.—The origin of the testa is but little
                  known in detail, but the region of its development may be seen in Fig. 82. In
                  Pinaceae it is hard throughout, while in Taxaceae it is accompanied usually by a
                  fleshy layer, or by a fleshy aril. In Podocarpus and Cephalotaxus the seed covering consists of a fleshy outer layer
                  and an inner hard one, as in the seeds of Cycads 
                  and Ginkgo; while in Taxus, Dacrydium, and Microcachrys the hard coat is surrounded
                  by a fleshy aril. The dry seeds are also frequently winged, either by an outgrowth
                  from the testa or by flakes split from the ovuliferous scales.
                Changes following fertilization also occur beyond the boundaries of the seed, and
                  result in a more or less definite fruit. 
                    FIG. 81.—Araucaria Brasiliana: A, a proembryo filling the entire oospore, only the shaded
                      cells belonging to the embryo proper, the wedge-shaped mass of cells below
                      being the embryo cap: B, a later stage, showing the embryo
                      cap thrust aside; x 153.—After STRASBURGER.
                   o The bracts or scales, or both, are affected, enlarging more or less
                  extensively, and becoming either woody, as in Abieteae, or fleshy, as in Juniperus; while in Podocarpus sometimes the
                  whole strobilus becomes fleshy.
              
            
          
          
            V. THE CLASSIFICATION OF CONIFERS
            Our knowledge of the morphology and history of Conifers is not sufficient to justify
              much certainty as to their classification. Probably the scheme proposed by Eichler and
              Engler in Engler and Prantl's "Natürlichen Pflanzenfamilien" is the best expression of
              our present knowledge, at least it seems best adapted to the purpose of this book.
              There is general agreement that  there are at least two
              great divergent families of Conifers, the Taxaceae and Pinaceae, differing from each
              other not only in certain important morphological characters, but also in general
              geographic distribution.
            The Taxaceae are characteristically south temperate forms, and include only about
              seventy-one species. Generally true strobili are not organized, at least they do not
              conceal the ovules, which are freely exposed. This would seem to diminish the chances
              of pollination as compared with the arrangement in Pinaceae, where the scales are of
              some service in catching pollen. Moreover, the seeds always develop a partially fleshy
              testa or an aril, which seems to be correlated with their exposed condition.
            
              FIG. 82.—Pinus Laricio, longitudinal
                section of the ovule showing the beginning of the testa (shaded zone): i, integument; p, pollen tubes; n,
                nucellus; a, archegonium; g, endosperm; t, testa; x 14.
            
            The Pinaceae, on the other hand, are characteristically north temperate forms, and
              include about two hundred and twenty-four of the two hundred and ninety-five known
              species of Conifers, and in individual or forest display the difference is much
              greater. Some explanation of this more favorable adaptation present conditions may be
              found in the fact that the organization of true strobili not merely protects the
              ovules, but also increases the chances for pollination. In the maturing of the seed
              the testa is woody or leathery, with no fleshy development, such as is characteristic
              of Cycads and Ginkgo, and of the Taxaceae, not even in the form of a
              fleshy aril. With such characters, and also with the northern distribution, the
              Pinaceae stand out quite distinctly.
            The Taxaceae, with their exposed ovules and succulent seed investment, contain but
              eight of the thirty-five genera of Conifers, and only seventy-one of the two hundred
              and ninety-five  species. Of these seventy-one species,
              forty belong to the single genus Podocarpus, as characteristic of
              the south temperate regions as Pinus is of the north temperates. At
              least two series of Taxaceae are evident, the Podocarpeae and the Taxeae. In the
              former, containing fifty-four species, the ovules are apparently foliar and the pollen
              grains are winged; while in the latter, containing seventeen species, the ovules are
              apparently cauline and the pollen grains are wingless.
            The Pinaceae display at least four distinct series of forms, in three of which
              (Araucarieae, Abieteae, and Taxodieae) the spiral leaf arrangement prevails
              throughout, in bracts and sporophylls as well as in the ordinary leaves; and in one
              (Cupresseae) the leaf arrangement is cyclic throughout. The Araucarieae, containing
              about fourteen species, and prominent in the southern hemisphere, have almost
              completely coalescent bract and scale, solitary ovules, and free pendulous pollen
              sacs. The Abieteae, containing about one hundred and twenty-two species and forming
              the prominent coniferous forest display of the northern hemisphere, have almost
              completely distinct bract and scale, winged pollen, and needle leaves. The Taxodieae,
              containing about twelve species, have almost completely coalescent bract and scale,
              and wingless pollen. The Cupresseae, containing seventy-eight species, are
              distinguished from the other groups of Pinaceae by the cyclic character, and may have
              the strobili ripening hard or fleshy (as in Juniperus).
            The morphological evidence seems to point to the belief that the Taxaceae represent
              the more primitive forms of Conifers, and that among the more recent Pinaceae the
              Abieteae, and notably the genus Pinus, stand for the most
              specialized forms.
            A tabulated statement of the classification outlined above is as follows, the numbers
              following each genus indicating the approximate number of recognized species it
              contains: 
                TAXACEAE 
                    Podocarpeae
                      
                        1. Saxogothaea
                          1
                        2. Microcachrys
                          1
                        3. Podocarpus
                          40
                        4. Dacrydium
                          12
                      
                    Taxeae
                      
                        5. Phyllocladus
                          3
                        6. Cephalotaxus
                          4
                        7. Torreya
                          4
                        8. Taxus
                          6
                      
                  
                
                PINACEAE 
                    Araucarieae
                      
                        9. Agathis
                          4
                        10. Araucaria
                          10
                      
                    Abieteae
                      
                        11. Pinus
                          70
                        12. Cedrus
                          3
                        13. Larix
                          8
                        14. Pseudolarix
                          1
                        15. Picea
                          12
                        16. Tsuga
                          4
                        17. Pseudotsuga
                          2
                        18. Keteleeria
                          2
                        19. Abies
                          20
                      
                    Taxodieae
                      
                        20. Sciadopitys
                          1
                        21. Cunninghamia
                          1
                        22. Sequoia
                          2
                        23. Arthrotaxis
                          3
                        24. Cryptorneria
                          1
                        25. Taxodium
                          2
                        26. Glyptostrobus
                          2
                      
                    Cupresseae
                      
                        27. Actinostrobus
                          2
                        28. Callitris
                          15
                        29. Fitzroya
                          2
                        30. Thujopsis
                          1
                        31. Libocedrus
                          8
                        32. Thuja
                          4
                        33. Cupressus
                          12
                        34. Chamaecyparis
                          4
                        35. Juniperus
                          30
                      
                  
                
              
          
          
            LITERATURE CITED
            1. BROWN, ROBERT. Character and Description of Kingia, a new
              Genus of Plants found on the S. W. Coast of New Holland, with Observations on the
              Structure of its Unimpregnated Ovulum and the Female Flower in Cycadeae and Coniferae,
              1827. Included also in Brown's Miscellaneous Botanical Works. 1:
              1866.
            2. SCHLEIDEN, M. J.
              Sur la Signification Morphologique du Placentaire. Ann. Sci. Nat. II. 12: 373-376. 1839.
            3. VON MOHL, HUGO. Ueber die Männlichen Blüthen der Coniferen.
              Verm. bot. Schriften 45-61. 1845. (Published as a dissertation, 1837.)
            4. BRAUN, A.
              1853.
            5. HOFMEISTER, W.
              Embryobildung der Phanerogamen. Jahrb. f. wiss. Bot. 1: 82-188. pls. 7-10. 1858.
            6. BAILLON, H.
              Recherches organogéniques sur la fleur femelle des Coniféres. Ann. Sci. Nat. IV. 14: 186-199. pls. 12-13. 1860.
            7. CASPARY, R. De
              Abietinearum floris feminei structura morphologica. Ann. Sci. Nat. IV. 14: 200-209. 1860.
            8. DICKSON, A.
              Observations on some Bisexual Cones occurring in the Spruce Fir (Abies
                excelsa). Trans. Edinburgh Bot. Sci. 6: 418-422. 1860.
            
            9. HOFMEISTER, W.
              Vergleichende Untersuchungen. English translation. 1862.
            10. OERSTED, A. S.
              Bidrag til Naaletroeernes Morphologi. Videnskab. Meddelelser Nat. Foren. Copenhagen.
              1864.
            11. PARLATORE, F.
              Studi Organografici sui Fiori e sui Frutti delle Conifere. Opuscula botanica.
              1864.
            12. HOFMEISTER, W.
              Lehre der Pflanzenzelle. 1867.
            13. SACHS, J.
              Lehrbuch. 1868.
            14. VAN TIEGHEM, PH. Anatomie comparée de la fleur femelle
              et du fruit des Cycadées, des Coniféres, et des Gnetacées. Ann. Sci. Nat. V. 10: 269-304. pls. 13-16. 1869.
            15. STRASBURGER, E.
              Die Befruchtung bei den Coniferen. 1869.
            16. VON MOHL, HUGO. Morphologische Betrachtung der Blätter
              von Sciadopitys. Bot. Zeit. 29: 17-23. 1871.
            17. STRASBURGER, E.
              Die Coniferen und Gnetaceen. 1872.
            18. EICHLER, A. W.
              Sind die Coniferen Gymnosperm oder nicht? Flora 54: 241-247,
              260-272. 1873; and later papers.
            19. ENGELMANN, G.
              Morphology of the Carpellary Scales of Coniferae. Am. Jour. Sci. III. 12: 469-470. 1876.
            20. STENZEL, G.
              Beobachtungen an durchwachsenen Fichtenzapfen. Ein Beitrag zur Morphologie der
              Nadelhölzer. Nov. Act. Nat. Cur. 38: 289-350. pls.
                12-15. 1876.
            21. STRASBURGER, E.
              Die Befruchtung und Zelltheilung. Jen. Zeitsch. 2: 435-536. pls. 27-35. 1877.
            22. STRASBURGER, E.
              Befruchtung und Zelltheilung. 1878.
            23. ČELAKOVSKÝ, L.
              Zur Gymnospermie der Coniferen. Flora 62: 257-264, 272-283.
              1879.
            24. STRASBURGER, E.
              Die Angiospermen und die Gymnospermen. 1879.
            25. ČELAKOVSKÝ, L.
              Zur Kritik der Ansichten von der Fruchtschuppe der Abietineen. Abhandl. d. königl.
              böhm. Gesell. d. Wiss. VI. 11: 1882.
            26. GOROSCHANKIN, J.
              Zur Kenntniss der Corpuscula bei den Gymnospermen. Bot. Zeit. 41:
              825-831. pl. 7A. 1883. Ueber den Befruchtung-Process bei Pinus Pumilio. 1883.
            27. DE BARY, A. Comparative Anatomy of the Vegetative Organs of the Phanerogams and
              Ferns. English translation. 1884.
            28. STRASBURGER, E.
              Neue Untersuchungen, etc. 1884.
            29. ČELAKOVSKÝ, L.
              Die Gymnospermen: eine morphologisch-phylogenetische Studie. Abhandl. d. königl. böhm.
              Gesell. d. Wiss. VIII. 4: 1890.
            30. BELAJEFF, W. Zur
              Lehre von dem Pollenschlauche der Gymnospermen. Ber. d. deutsch. bot. Gesell. 9: 280-286. pl. 18. 1891.
            31. STRASBURGER, E.
              Ueber das Verhalten des Pollens und die Befruchtungsvorgänge bei den Gymnospermen.
              Hist. Beitr. 4: 1-158. pls. 1-3. 1892.
            
            31a. MOTTIER, D. M. On the Archegonium and Apical
              Growth of the stem in Tsuga Canadensis and Pinus
                silvestris. Bot. Gaz. 17: 141-143. pl. 8.
              1892.
            32. BELAJEFF, W. Zur
              Lehre von dem Pollenschlauche der Gymnospermen (Zweite Mittheilung). Ber. d. deutsch.
              bot. Gesell. 11: 196-201. pl. 12. 1893.
            33. DIXON, H. N.
              Fertilization of Pinus silvestris. Ann. Bot. 8:
              21-34. pls. 3-5. 1894.
            34. SHAW, W. R.
              Contribution to the Life-history of Sequoia. Bot. Gaz. 21: 332-339.
                pl. 24. 1896.
            35. ČELAKOVSKÝ, L.
              Nachtrag zu meiner Schrift über die Gymnospermen. Engler's Bot. Jahrb. 24: 202-231. 1898.
            36. COULTER, J. M.
              Notes on the Fertilization and Embryogeny of Conifers. Bot. Gaz. 23:
              40-43. pl. 6. 1897.
            37. BLACKMAN, V. H.
              On the Cytological Features of Fertilization and Related Phenomena in Pinus silvestris L. Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc. 190: 395-426. pls. 12-14. 1898.
            38. CHAMBERLAIN, C.
              J. Winter Characters of certain Sporangia. Bot. Gaz. 25: 125-128.
                pl. 11. 1898.
            39. CHAMBERLAIN, C.
              J. Oogenesis in Pinus Laricio. Bot. Gaz. 27:
              268-280. pls 4-6. 1899.
            40. JÄGER, L.
              Beiträge zur Kenntniss der Endospermbildung und zur Embryologie von Taxus
                baccata. Flora 86: 241-288. pls. 15-19.
              1899.
            41. WOYCICKI, Z. On
              Fertilization in Coniferae (in Russian). pp. 1-57. pls. 2.
              1899.
            42. ARNOLD, W. Bull.
              Soc. Imp. Nat. Moscou. 329-341. pls. 2. 1899 (1900); see review in
              Jour. Roy. Micr. Soc. 1900: 428.
            43. ARNOLDI, W.
              Beiträge zur Morphologie der Gymnospermen. III. Embryogenie von Cephalotaxus Fortunei. Flora 87: 46-63. pls.
                1-3. 1900.
            44. ARNOLDI, W. Beiträge zur Morphologie der
              Gymnospermen. IV. Was sind die "Keimbläschen" oder "Hofmeister's-Körperchen" in der
              Eizelle der Abietineen? Flora 87: 194-204. pls.
                6-7. 1900.
            45. COKER, W. C.
              Observations on the Gametophyte and Embryo of Taxodium distichum.
              Johns Hopkins Univ. Circ. 19: 45-46. 1900.
            46. GOEBEL, K.
              Organography of Plants. English translation. 153-155. 1900.
            47. WORSDELL, W. C.
              The Structure of the Female "Flower" in Coniferae. Ann. Bot. 14:
              39-82. 1900.
            48. WORSDELL, W. C.
              The Vascular Structure of the Ovule of Cephalotaxus. Ann. Bot. 14:
              317-318. 1900.
            49. MURRILL, W. A. The Development of the
              Archegonium and Fertilization in the Hemlock Spruce (Tsuga
                Canadensis). Ann. Bot. 14: 583-607. pls.
                31-32. 1900.
          
        
        
        
          CHAPTER IV
            GNETALES
          THIS group includes three genera which differ remarkably in habit
            and habitat. Certain angiospermous characters which they display have suggested that
            they may have given rise to Angiosperms, but such a theory seems to have been abandoned
            by most morphologists. The two characters of the group which have been regarded as
            distinguishing it from other Gymnosperms are (1) the occurrence of "true vessels" in the
            secondary wood, and (2) the presence of a "perianth." A mere statement of these
            characters is apt to lead to an exaggerated conception concerning their importance. The
            "true vessels" are usually intermediate in character between the tracheids of ordinary
            Gymnosperms and the tracheae of Angiosperms, and are as easily associated with the
            former as with the latter. The "perianth" is a doubtful structure, and is probably no
            more the equivalent of the perianth of Angiosperms than are the bracts closely related
            to the stamens and ovules in other Gymnosperms.
          In addition to the two distinguishing characters given above, the group has the four
            following characters in common, but not peculiar to it: (1) opposite leaves (a cyclic
            character also displayed by the Cupresseae); (2) dicotyledonous embryos (found also in
            Cycads and in several groups of Conifers); (3) cauline ovules (true also of Taxaceae and
            perhaps of all Conifers); and (4) no resin ducts (true also of Taxus).
            To these characters perhaps should be added the remarkable prolongation of the
            integument of the ovule to form a long tubular micropyle.
          The genera are Ephedra, with about thirty species, from the arid
            regions of both hemispheres; the monotypic Tumboa (Welwitschia), from the extremely arid regions of western South Africa; and Gnetum, with about fifteen species, from
            the tropics of both hemispheres.
          The important morphological literature of the group may be outlined historically as
            follows: In 1863 Hooker1
            published an account of Tumboa in an elaborate memoir, which is
            probably more generally accessible in Eichler's2 very full review. In 1872 Strasburger3 published the first adequate account of the
            more recondite morphological features of the group. In 1877 Beccari4 gave an account of the ovulate flowers of Gnetum, and discussed the nature of the floral structures; while in 1879
              Strasburger5 extended and
            co-ordinated his previous observations. It is chiefly from the two publications of
            Strasburger that the current accounts of text-books have been derived. In 1881 Bower6,7 published accounts of the embryo of Tumboa; and in 1882 the same author8 performed a similar service in the case of Gnetum. These two accounts still remain practically the only source of
            information concerning the embryos of Tumboa and Gnetum. In 1892 Strasburger9 again discussed the Gnetales, and in the same year Karsten10 published a preliminary paper upon the genus
              Gnetum. In 1893 Karsten11,12
            published two additional papers, in which he modified and extended his previous
            conclusions. In 1894 and 1895 Jaccard13,14 published accounts
            of Ephedra Helvetica, which assisted materially to an understanding of
            the group. The most recent contribution is that of Lotsy,15 who has given a very important account of the
            female gametophyte and fertilization in Gnetum Gnemon. He has also
            done great service in bringing together the essential features of the scattered
            literature, and in contrasting the results of different investigators.
          In the following account of Gnetales these various authors ave been laid under
            contribution, as we have had no opportunity to examine any properly fixed material.
          
            I. THE VEGETATIVE ORGANS
            The species of Ephedra are low straggling shrubs, with long-jointed
              and fluted green stems, and opposite scalelike leaves connate into a two-toothed
              sheath. True foliage leaves are generally lacking, the work of photosynthesis being
              assumed by the stem, as in the case of the Equisetales, whose stems are very
              suggestive of Ephedra (Fig. 83).
            
            Tumboa is a remarkable monotypic genus. As described and figured by
                Hooker,1 the body has the
              shape of a gigantic radish, which rises little above the surface of the ground, and
              whose crown is sometimes 3.5 to 4.5 meters in circumference. 
                FIG. 83.—Ephedra antisyphilitica: 1, staminate branches; 2, ovulate branches; 3, sterile branches; 4, staminate strobilus; 5, ovulate strobilus; 6, longitudinal section of
                  seed; 7, bracts of the ovulate strobilus.—After WATSON.
               The broad top is more or less concave and somewhat two-lobed, and from the
              deep horizontal groove which separates the crown from the body two enormously long
              parallel-veined leaves arise, which extend upon the ground sometimes for 3 to 3.5
              meters,  and become split into numerous ribbons (Fig.
              84). This single pair of opposite leaves succeeds the cotyledons, and is the only pair
              of foliage leaves produced, growing continually at the base, 
                FIG. 84.—Tumboa (Welwitschia), from a sketch by Dr. Welwitsch, its discoverer.—After
                    KERNER.
              where it is protected by the groove. These leaves last through the lifetime
              of the plant, which is said to reach more than a hundred years.
            The species of Gnetum are either small trees or woody  climbers, being among the prominent lianas of tropical
              forests (Fig. 85). The foliage is leathery in texture, and is very suggestive of
              Dicotyledons, the well-developed opposite leaves being lanceolate to ovate in outline
              and pinnately net-veined (Fig. 88).
            
              THE STEM
              Ephedra.—The characteristic long-jointed and fluted green
                stems have been spoken of above. In the stem tip the dermatogen and periblem cap the
                plerome cylinder with distinct layers, each layer having its own initials, or the
                three embryonic regions merge in a common group of initials. It is of interest to
                note that both of these conditions have been found in a single species (E. campylopoda). There are no cauline bundles, as in Tumboa and Gnetum, and no secondary cambium. The primary
                cambium develops a certain amount of secondary tissue, but the increase in diameter
                is never striking. The tracheary vessels of the secondary wood, which distinguish
                Gnetales from other Gymnosperms, are found in Ephedra at the inner
                part of the secondary xylem cylinder, and consist of broad vessels associated with
                ordinary gymnospermous tracheids. These vessels are interrupted, moreover, by
                oblique walls, and display bordered pits as well as simple pits. In every way they
                seem to be modified gymnospermous tracheids. A peculiar feature of the genus is the
                diaphragmlike plate of cells which occurs at the base of each internode, rendering
                the stem easily separable at the nodes. The stomata occur upon the fluted stem in
                rows, as in Equisetum, and are sunken in urn-shaped depressions
                formed by mounds of cuticle.
              Tumboa.—The anatomy of the stem is somewhat confusing on
                account of the extremely shortened axis. In the region where the short crown and
                large tap root merge there is a broad stratum of collateral bundles, which De Bary
                recognizes as two layers very close together, and calls the "layer of the leaf
                trace." The upper layer connects with the numerous veins of the leaves, and the
                lower layer is associated with the system of vessels in the tap root. The primary
                cambium is short-lived, and a series of irregularly concentric bundles suggests a
                succession of secondary cortical cambiums. The resemblance to Cycads is further
                marked by the occurrence of cauline bundles, not only in the cortex but also in the
                pith. It is reported also that tracheids 
                
                  FIG. 85.—Gnetum ovalifolium,
                    climbing on Cocos nucifera.—After KARSTEN.
                
                 with bordered pits are entirely lacking, simple
                pitted and spiral vessels replacing them. In connection with the vascular bundles
                there is a conspicuous development of fibrous sclerenchyma. In the stem as a whole
                parenchymatous tissue largely predominates, and forms a conspicuous water-reservoir
                system.
              Perhaps the most remarkable anatomical feature is the occurrence of the so-called
                "spicular" cells, found in large numbers and scattered throughout all organs. They
                are very large, fusiform or branched, straight or variously curved, with greatly
                thickened walls, in the outer layers of which many finely formed crystals of calcium
                oxalate are imbedded close together.
              Gnetum.—As in Tumboa, the primary cambium
                is short-lived, and successive cortical cambium zones organize concentric series of
                cauline bundles. As in Ephedra, the xylem contains vessels of the
                true tracheary type associated with tracheids of the Gymnosperm type.
            
            
              THE LEAF
              Ephedra.—The opposite leaves of Ephedra are reduced to
                scales, which coalesce to form at each node a two-toothed sheath. The occurrence of
                true foliage leaves seems to be extremely rare
              Tumboa.—In the single pair of long-lived parallel-veined
                leaves the stomata are in rows and deeply sunken. The chlorophyll-bearing tissue
                beneath the epidermis ensheaths a prominent central tissue which is colorless or
                nearly so, and constitutes a conspicuous water reservoir. The colorless middle
                tissue is traversed by the very numerous and strong parallel bundles, which are
                connected by transverse branches. These branches sometimes end freely in the
                mesophyll, or send out branchlets which end blindly. While the general system of
                venation is of the monocotyledonous type, the blind ending of certain branches is a
                dicotyledonous feature.
              Gnetum.—The leaves of Gnetum seem to
                differ in no essential feature from such leaves of Dicotyledons as are leathery in
                texture, having a typical reticulate bundle system of the pinnate variety.
            
            
              THE ROOT
              The very meager accounts of the roots of Gnetales have reference only to species of
                  Ephedra. From these it appears that the group possesses the same
                peculiarities shown by the other  Gymnosperms. The
                root cap is derived in the same way from the outer exfoliating layers of the
                periblem, and the primary vascular cylinder is diarch.
            
          
          
            II. THE SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS
            
              THE MICROSPORANGIUM
              So far as we can discover, there is no recorded information as to the development
                of the microsporangium in Gnetales, but presumably it follows the general sequence
                common to Gymnosperms and Angiosperms. The following account, therefore, can deal
                only with the gross structure of the so-called staminate flowers.
              Ephedra.—The flowers are monosporangiate, and are borne in
                the axils of bracts in a spicate inflorescence. The staminate 
                  FIG. 86.—Tumboa: A, young staminate flower; B, older staminate flower,
                    with the sterile ovule in the center: C, two stamens; D, the sterile ovule; E, the ovulate flower,
                    showing tubular micropyle (i) and winglike expansions of the
                    "perianth"; F, the same after fertilization; G, longitudinal section of a ripe seed, showing conspicuous suspensor
                      (s).—After STRASBURGER, the figure
                    being taken from ENGLER and PRANTL'S Nat.
                    Pflanzenfam.
                 flower consists of two more or less connate scales ("perianth") investing
                a projecting axis, which bears two or more sporangia. The sporangia appear to be
                cauline, the sporangiferous axis remaining simple and bearing two sporangia, or
                branching somewhat above and bearing several sporangia (Fig. 83).
              
              Tumboa.—While the flowers are functionally monosporangiate,
                there is evidence of their derivation from a bisporangiate condition. They are borne
                in the axils of prominent opposite bracts which form conelike strobili. These
                strobili are produced upon branching axes, which arise from the crown above the
                foliage leaves, or rarely beneath them. The staminate flower consists of two
                decussate pairs of free bracts, forming the so-called perianth, within which there
                is a whorl of six (rarely five or four) monadelphous stamens, each of which is
                capped by a group of three sporangia. In the center is a single sterile ovule, whose
                projecting micropyle is spirally coiled and has a flaring expansion at the tip
                (Figs. 86, 87).* The whole structure is
                puzzling and anomalous among Gymnosperms, for it seems to indicate derivation from a
                perfect flower. The microsporangia also seem to be distinctly foliar in origin.
              
                FIG. 87.—Tumboa: A,
                  staminate strobilus; B, ovulate strobilus; both two thirds
                  natural size.—A from the Bot. Mag., B
                  after LE MAOUT and DECAISNE; the whole figure from ENGLER and PRANTL'S Nat. Pflanzenfam.
              
              Gnetum.—The flowers are monosporangiate and mostly
                dioecious, the inflorescence being in the form of spikes of connate bracts with
                numerous flowers in their axils. The staminate flowers resemble those of Ephedra, consisting of two coherent bracts investing a short axis
                which bears two sporangia. Such evidence as we have indicates that these sporangia
                are cauline (Fig. 88).
            
            
              THE MEGASPORANGIUM
              Ephedra.—In the spicate inflorescence one or more ovulate
                flowers occur in the axil of each bract. Each flower consists of two more or less
                connate scales which invest a solitary cauline *Excellent illustrations of the staminate and ovulate
                  strobili may be found in Gardeners' Chronicle III. 24: 63.
                  1898.
                 ovule whose integument is produced into a very long
                tubular projecting micropyle. In fruit the bracts are much modified, becoming red
                and succulent, or much enlarged and chaffy, and the "perianth" persists and becomes
                lignified (Fig. 83).
              The development of the megasporangium, as given by Strasburger3 for E. campyloda,
                indicates the usual sequence of events. The archesporium consists of a group of
                hypodermal cells, which by periclinal division cut off wall cells. The extensive
                periclinal division of the wall cells organizes them into very regular longitudinal
                rows (Fig. 89, A), and places the primary sporogenous cells deep
                within the nucellus. Whether the primary sporogenous cells divide or pass directly
                into mother cells is not clear, but in any event the mother cells form a deep-seated
                group variable in number or even reduced to one.
              Tumboa.—In the conelike strobilus the ovulate flowers are
                axillary, and contain a single ovule, with no trace of stamens. 
                  FIG. 88.—Gnetum: A, branch with leaves and staminate strobili; B, upper
                    portion of a staminate strobilus; C, a staminate flower; D, a branch with ovulate strobili; E, upper
                    portion of an ovulate strobilus; F, an ovulate flower; G, longitudinal section of an ovulate flower, showing the three
                    envelopes (ii, ie, p); A-E, Gnetum latifolia; F-G, Gnetum
                      sp.?—A-E after BLUME, F and G after STRASBURGER: whole
                    figure from ENGLER and PRANTL'S Nat.
                    Pflanzenfam.
                 The perianth consists of a single pair of completely united bracts, which
                close over the ovule like an outer integument and become much flattened laterally,
                forming two opposite winglike expansions. The integument directly investing the
                ovule forms  the usual long projecting tubular
                micropyle, which is neither spirally coiled nor expanded at the tip as in the
                sterile ovule of the staminate flower. In fruit the enlarged bracts become bright
                scarlet, and the seed is winged by the expanded perianth (Figs. 86, 87).
              Very little is known concerning the details of the development of the
                megasporangium beyond the fact that a group of mother cells is deep-seated beneath
                long rows of wall cells, as in other Gymnosperms. The rows of wall cells are
                organized into a somewhat persistent nucellar cap or beak, recalling the Cycadales
                and Ginkgoales. There is no evidence that the beak develops a pollen chamber, but it
                is said to become riddled with passageways which are utilized by the ascending
                archegonial tubes and descending pollen tubes.
              Gnetum.—According to Lotsy,15 in G. Gnemon the very
                young ovulate spike consists of a series of close-set cups, each cup representing
                coalescent bracts. Later the cups are well separated by the lengthening of the
                internodes, and within each a prominent ringlike cushion appears. From the lower
                portion of the cushion abundant yellowish paraphysislike hairs are developed, while
                from the top of the cushion the more or less numerous ovulate flowers arise, each
                flower apparently representing an axillary bud (Figs. 88, E, and
                91, A). The solitary ovule is organized directly from the tip of
                the bud axis, and hence is cauline, while about it there arise in acropetal
                succession three envelops, the homologies of which have given rise to considerable
                discussion (Fig. 91, G). The outermost envelop is green and
                fleshy, resembling the perianth in Ephedra; the middle one is more
                delicate, not green, and does not rise so high as the outer one; while the innermost
                is the long-necked structure called an integument in Ephedra and
                  Tumboa. The tip of the micropylar tube is more or less lacerate,
                and the lobes spread during pollination (Fig. 88, F).
              Strasburger9 discovered that
                there are two kinds of ovulate flowers, those of the ovulate spikes, described
                above, and those found in the staminate spikes. The latter differ in having but two
                envelops about the ovule, the middle one of the complete flower being absent. These
                incomplete flowers do not function, but sometimes they develop far enough to contain
                embryo sacs. In the very rare cases when an ovulate flower on a staminate  spike functions, Lotsy15 observed that it possesses the three
                envelops of the complete ovulate flowers. Karsten10,11,12 found that the
                middle envelop appears during the development of the incomplete ovulate flowers, but
                gradually disappears.
              Strasburger9 regards all
                three envelops as integuments, the middle and innermost corresponding to the inner
                envelop in Ephedra. Beccari4 first described the organogeny of the flower,
                discovering that the three envelops appear in acropetal succession. This seemed to
                militate against the theory of ovular integuments, which appear in basipetal
                succession. Beccari's interpretation, however, seems somewhat fanciful, since he
                regards the middle envelop as the homologue of the staminate cycle in Tumboa, the outermost envelop being a perianth. Lotsy regards the two outer
                envelops as two whorls of bracts, which he calls the perianth, and claims that there
                is only a single integument. He lays stress upon the fact that in the two outer
                envelops there is vascular tissue, claiming that this indicates their foliar
                nature.
              If Čelakovský's general claim be accepted, that there are two integuments in all
                Gymnosperms, the so-called perianth of Gnetales becomes an outer integument, and the
                middle envelop of the ovulate flowers of Gnetum may well be only
                an outer layer of the inner integument, as Strasburger has suggested. In any event,
                there seems to be no question as to the tegumental nature of the innermost envelop,
                and the acropetal succession of the envelops would indicate that the one or two
                outer ones are modified bracts. It must be remembered that this does not necessarily
                militate against Čelakovský's view, since he regards integuments as of foliar
                origin.
              The development of the megasporangium has been described in detail by
                  Strasburger3 for Gnetum Gnemon, and coincides with the general sequence in
                Gymnosperms. The archesporium consists of a group of hypodermal cells which cut off
                wall cells by periclinal division. By repeated periclinal divisions the wall cells
                form the usual thick mass of sterile tissue above the sporogenous region (Fig. 91,
                  F). Before pollination the cells at the tip of the nucellus
                disorganize, an irregular pollen chamber being the result, much as in Pinus. The several primary sporogenous cells divide more or less and
                organize the deep-seated group of mother cells.
            
          
          
          
            III. THE GAMETOPHYTES
            
              THE FEMALE GAMETOPHYTE
              While the female gametophyte conforms in a general way to the Gymnosperm type,
                there are certain remarkable deviations in Tumboa and Gnetum which are suggestive of a possible method of derivation of the embryo
                sac structures of Angiosperms.
              
                FIG. 89.—Ephedra: A,
                  young ovule showing a row of three potential megaspores; B,
                  upper part of nucellus after fertilization, showing the free cells of the
                  proembryo within the two oospores, x 64; C, suspensors
                  developing from the free cells, passing from the oospore into the endosperm, and
                  each bearing at tip an embryonal cell, x 64; D-F, later stages
                  in the development of the embryo, x 154; A, E.
                    campylopoda; B-F, E.
                  altissima.—After STRASBURGER.
              
              Ephedra.—According to Strasburger's account3 for E.
                  campylopoda, the mother cells organize a row of three potential megaspores,
                the lowest of which is the fertile one (Fig. 89, A). In case
                several fertile megaspores begin to enlarge, one finally dominates and develops the
                gametophyte.
              The details of the germination of the megaspore are lacking, but Strasburger's
                outline is the usual one among Gymnosperms. The
                nucleus of the spore begins free nuclear division, the nuclei become imbedded in a
                parietal layer of cytoplasm which surrounds a great central vacuole, and free
                nuclear division continues until numerous nuclei appear within the enlarging embryo
                sac. Walls next appear, and a layer of parietal tissue develops, which by continued
                cell division gradually fills the sac with a compact tissue, as in Conifers. The
                archegonia have unusually long necks, and apparently a remarkably persistent ventral
                canal cell.
              It is evident that in Ephedra there is the least departure from
                what may be called the Gymnosperm type of female gametophyte, and presumably Ephedra may be regarded as the most primitive of the Gnetales.
              Tumboa.—This genus needs reinvestigation from the
                stand-point of modern technique and modern morphology, for the facts recorded
                concerning it are somewhat vague and may be misleading. Nothing is known of the
                development of the solitary functional megaspore further than that it lies at first
                deep within the nucellus beneath long rows of wall cells. As this is true of
                Gymnosperms in general, it may be assumed that the history up to this point is the
                same.
              Apparently the germination of the megaspore also proceeds in the usual way, with
                free nuclear division, imbedding of the free nuclei in a parietal layer of
                cytoplasm, appearance of walls, and gradual centripetal filling of the embryo sac.
                It is evident, however, that the tissue in the micropylar end of the embryo sac is
                less compacted than that in the antipodal end. In any event, the archegonium
                initials upon the micropylar surface of the gametophyte behave in an exceedingly
                peculiar and independent fashion. It is reported that there are from twenty to sixty
                of these initials, and that they proceed no further in the development of archegonia
                than to assume the appearance of ordinary archegonium initials, an egg being
                organized directly within each of them without any division. Just why the
                development of archegonia should stop with the selection and enlargement of initial
                cells is hard to understand except upon the hypothesis that they are practically
                free cells. Each of these cells, representing a greatly reduced archegonium,
                contains an egg which is ready for fertilization. There is suggested an intermediate
                condition between Ephedra, with its complete  archegonia, and Gnetum, with its free eggs. No less
                remarkable than the structure of the archegonium, if such it may be called, is its
                behavior in connection with fertilization. It is reported that each archegonial cell
                develops a long tubular process which penetrates into the sterile tissue of the
                nucellus, and passing along one of the numerous passageways of the beak meets the
                approaching pollen tube (Fig. 90). It is needless to comment upon this peculiar
                structure and behavior until the details are more fully known.
              
                FIG. 90.—Tumboa: the figure to the
                  right represents a group of archegonium initials sending out tubular prolongations
                  into the nucellus to meet the descending pollen tubes; the figure to the left and
                  above represents the suspensorlike elongation of the oospore, bearing at its tip
                  embryonal cells.—After STRASBURGER.
              
              Gnetum.—In Strasburger's account3 of G. Gnemon it is not
                apparent whether or not the mother cells develop a row of potential megaspores. In
                any event, several megaspores begin to enlarge, and free nuclear division may occur
                in a number of them before one finally dominates the rest.
              The germination of the megaspore has been given in detail by Lotsy,15 and his account for Gnetum Gnemon is as follows: The nucleus of the megaspore begins the
                usual series of free nuclear divisions, but since there is such great diversity
                between the micropylar and antipodal contents of the embryo sac, Lotsy raises the
                question whether the polarity of the sac may not have been established by the first
                division of the megaspore nucleus. Unfortunately, the persistent absence of spindles
                in his material prevented him from answering the question. Soon the free nuclei
                become imbedded in a thin parietal layer of cytoplasm surrounding a great central
                vacuole (Fig. 91, H). In this condition a constriction develops in
                the sac somewhat below the middle of its long axis, which persists until the final
                growth of the sac obliterates it. This constriction divides the sac into two very
                distinct chambers. The smaller antipodal chamber speedily fills with a compact
                tissue, in the way usual for the whole embryo  sac in
                other Gymnosperms, while the micropylar chamber still contains only free nuclei
                (Fig. 91, I).
              It is in this stage that fertilization occurs, for the free nuclei, or presumably
                free cells, of the micropylar chamber are all apparently potential eggs. Archegonia,
                therefore, are no more developed than in Angiosperms. If fertilization does not take
                place, the whole sac becomes filled with tissue. After fertilization the tissue of
                the antipodal chamber renews its growth, finally destroys the nucellar tissue, and
                encroaches upon the rest of the sac, a small cavity at the micropylar end
                representing the micropylar chamber. Lotsy also states that certain of the free
                nuclei which are not fertilized organize definite cells, resembling free endosperm
                cells of Angiosperms. The same writer also calls attention to the fact that where
                the tissue of the antipodal chamber projects in conical fashion into the
                constriction certain structures resembling rudimentary archegonia appear.
              The species of Gnetum investigated by Karsten10,11,12
                show still further reduction of the female gametophyte than that exhibited by G. Gnemon. In these the whole sac behaves as does the micropylar
                chamber in G. Gnemon, so that endosperm tissue is not developed
                until after fertilization. It would seem, therefore, that G.
                  Gnemon represents a condition of the gametophyte intermediate between its
                structure in Tumboa and the species of Gnetum
                investigated by Karsten.
              The strong polarity of the sac, the occurrence of naked eggs, the large or entire
                development of endosperm tissue after fertilization, are all features suggestive of
                the Angiosperm condition. Especially striking in the comparison with the Angiosperm
                embryo sac is the occurrence of free cells at the micropylar end of the sac, and of
                a compact tissue at the antipodal end.
            
            
              THE MALE GAMETOPHYTE
              The development of the male gametophyte in Gnetales is practically unknown. In
                Strasburger's account3 of Ephedra campylopoda it is stated that in the germination of the
                microspore three small cells are successively cut off, the first disorganizing, the
                second persisting, and the third presumably representing the primary spermatogenous
                or generative cell. This is an ordinary Gymnosperm outline, and the persistence of
                the second vegetative cell recalls Ginkgo.
              
              
                FIG. 91.—Gnetum Gnemon: A, ovulate strobilus; B, strobilus upon which only one
                  seed has matured; C, longitudinal section of a young ovulate
                  strobilus, x 24; D, later stage, showing ovules and paraphysial
                  hairs (h), x 45; E, longitudinal section of an
                  immature ovulate flower, showing "perianth" (p), inner
                  integument (i), rudimentary outer integument (r), and nucellus (n); F, nucellus
                  showing three mother cells; G, longitudinal section of a mature
                  ovulate flower, showing the "perianth" (p), outer integument
                    (o), and inner integument (i), x 33; H, embryo sac with free nuclei in a parietal layer, and showing
                  the beginning of the constriction which results in the antipodal and micropylar
                  chambers; I, cell formation in the antipodal chamber, another
                  sac which is being pushed aside is shown at the right above, x 50; J, upper portion of sac soon after fertilization, showing a pollen tube
                  with its nucleus (t), oospores (f), and
                  unfertilized eggs, x 340; K, embryo sac showing the
                  suspensorlike development of the oospore (q) advancing toward
                  the antipodal endosperm, x 50.—All from LOTSY excepting
                    F, which is after STRASBURER.
              
              
              In Gnetum our only knowledge of the male gametophyte comes from
                the work of Lotsy15 upon G. Gnemon, in which the pollen tube just before fertilization was
                observed to contain the tube nucleus and two male cells of the ordinary Conifer
                type. Concerning the male gametophyte of Tumboa the only available
                information is contained in a few figures by Strasburger.9 The pollen grain is rather narrowly oblong
                in section, and on one of the broad sides of the section a small lenticular cell is
                shown, undoubtedly representing a vegetative cell. Whether there is only a single
                persistent cell of this kind, as in Cycads, or whether it is but one of two cells,
                as in Ginkgo and Conifers, is not apparent. The figures also show
                the division of the nucleus of the antheridium initial into tube nucleus and
                generative nucleus. Such evidence as is available indicates that the male
                gametophyte conforms to the type observed among other living groups of
                Gymnosperms.
            
            
              FERTILIZATION
              We have no information concerning the fertilization of Ephedra.
                The anomalous behavior of Tumboa has already been referred to, in
                which the wall of the archegonial initial develops a tubular process that penetrates
                the nucellus, meets a descending pollen tube, and receives its discharge. The
                advance of archegonial tubes and pollen tubes is expedited by the numerous
                passageways which riddle the caplike apex of the nucellus. The egg remains in the
                bulbous basal portion of the archegonial initial, and is fertilized there.
              The fertilization of Gnetum Gnemon is given in considerable
                detail by Lotsy.15 One or
                more pollen tubes, each containing a tube nucleus and two male cells, penetrate into
                the micropylar chamber of the embryo sac, either at its apex or at the side. The tip
                of the tube within the sac usually becomes much distended, and discharges both male
                cells through a  terminal pore. Each male cell fuses
                with a free egg, and as many oospores are formed as there are male cells discharged
                into the sac—that is, twice as many as there are discharging pollen tubes
                (Fig. 91, J). The oospore was observed to organize at once about
                the fusion nucleus a comparatively dense layer of cytoplasm, and soon a cell
                membrane appeared. The oospores may remain free, or they may become attached to the
                tips of the pollen tubes which belong to them.
            
          
          
            IV. THE EMBRYO
            Ephedra.—An account of the development of the embryo of Ephedra altissima is given by Strasburger.3 Germination begins with free nuclear
              division, and two to eight free cells, sometimes more, are organized within the
              oospore (Fig. 89, B). These free cells do not organize any definite
              tissue as in Conifers. As a consequence, each cell continues to act independently,
              elongating to form a suspensorlike tube, which emerges from the oospore and penetrates
              the endosperm (Fig. 89, C). The more or less numerous tubes,
              emerging in various directions, are bulbous within the oospore, where they are in
              contact with its nutritive supply, and at the free tip cut off a single cell, from
              which the embryo proper is developed. The embryonal cell divides transversely, which
              is followed by other transverse divisions, forming a short filament (Fig. 89, D, E). Longitudinal divisions succeed, and later periclinal divisions
              (Fig. 89, F). No details of the organization of the growing points
              are recorded.
            Tumboa.—After fertilization, it is reported that the
              archegonium initial elongates and penetrates the endosperm as a suspensor, which is a
              long, much-coiled, and very persistent structure, and carries the egg in its tip. It
              is probably the fact that the so-called archegonial suspensor is a tube developed by
              the oospore, just as in the free oospores of Gnetum, and that the
              so-called egg in its tip is the nucleus of the oospore. In any event, the embryonal
              cell appears as a small cell cut off at the tip of the suspensorlike tube (Fig. 90),
              and gives rise not only to the embryo proper but also to numerous embryonal tubes
              (Fig. 92).
            According to Bower's account6,7 of the embryo, the
              first division of the embryonal cell is longitudinal. Then a  transverse division and other longitudinal divisions follow, until a
              pyramidal mass of cells is organized at the end of the suspensor. From the basal cells
              of this mass the embryonal tubes develop (Fig. 92). No details of the organization of
              the various growing points are given, but the completed embryo consists of a
              well-developed root and a long hypocotyl, between which there is organized a very
              conspicuous footlike process, that remains in the seed during its germination. Two
              cotyledons are developed, as in all Gnetales.
            
              FIG. 92.—Tumboa: a young embryo
                consisting of a pyramidal group of cells, the basal ones giving rise to embryonal
                tubes.—After STRASBURGER.
            
            Gnetum.—According to Lotsy,15 the free oospores develop long tubes, which
              advance toward the mass of antipodal endosperm and penetrate into it deeply, sometimes
              branching. During this advance the nucleus keeps in the tip of the tube (Fig. 91, K). There is every reason to suppose that this is a repetition of the
              behavior noted in Tumboa. It is after this penetration of the
              antipodal region that the endosperm renews its growth and finally encroaches upon the
              whole nucellus. It is in this condition, with the tubular oospore, containing the
              nucleus in its tip, imbedded in the antipodal endosperm, that the seed drops. Lotsy
              reports that occasionally the tubes are not directed toward the antipodal region, but
              may pass out of the micropylar chamber into the nucellus, or may grow directly away
              from the antipodal region. In either of these cases there is no further
              development.
            The further development of the embryo of Gnetum Gnemon has been
              studied by Bower.8 At the tip
              of the oosporic tube an embryonal cell is cut off. This cell divides longitudinally
              and transversely, until a small group is organized (Fig. 93, A), the
              basal cells of which give rise to embryonal tubes, just as in Tumboa. The mature embryo also resembles that of Tumboa in its
              two cotyledons, and prominent hypocotyl and root between which a conspicuous foot is
              developed (Fig. 93, B).
            
              FIG. 93.—Gnetum Gnemon: A, a young embryo at the tip of a suspensor and imbedded in endosperm; B, a germinating seed, the root and stem tips having escaped, and
                the foot remaining within the seed coat.—After BOWER.
            
            
            In the germination of the oospore, and in the structure of the female gametophyte,
              there is evidence that Tumboa and Gnetum are
              allied forms, the latter having proceeded further in the reduction of its gametophyte
              preceding fertilization. It is also evident that Ephedra must be
              associated with them as the least modified form, its gametophyte retaining the
              character of those in other Gymnosperms, while the germination of its oospore is
              fairly transitional between Conifers on the one hand and Tumboa and
                Gnetum on the other. There is free nuclear division in the
              oospore, as in Conifers, but the cells organized in connection with them remain
              independent and behave as do the oospores of Tumboa and Gnetum. It should be remarked, also, that the number of free cells developed
              within the oospore of Ephedra may be reduced to two, and that any
              further reduction would probably result in causing the whole oospore to behave as do
              these of Tumboa and Gnetum. If Ephedra be associated with Tumboa and Gnetum, as seems reasonable, there is equally weighty evidence for regarding
              it as the group of Gnetales most nearly related to the Conifers, for its female
              gametophyte and the early stages in the germination of its oospore are identical with
              those in Conifers.
          
          
            LITERATURE CITED
            1. HOOKER, J. D. On
              Welwitschia, a new genus of Gnetaceae. Trans. Linn. Soc. London 24:
              1-48. pls. 1-14. 1863.
            2. EICHLER, A. W.
              Ueber Welwitschia mirabilis, etc. Flora 47:
              459-464, 473-479, 489-496, 508-510, 513-520. 1863.
            3. STRASBURGER, E.
              Die Coniferen und die Gnetaceen. 1872.
            4. BECCARI, O. Della
              organogenia dei fiori feminei del Gnetunm Gnemon L. Nuovo Giorn.
              Bot. Ital. 7: 91-99. 1877.
            5. STRASBURGER, E.
              Die Angiospermen und die Gymnospermen. 1879.
            6. BOWER, F. O. On
              the Germination and Histology of the Seedlings of Welwitschia
                mirabilis. Quart. Jour. Micr. Sci. 21: 15-30.
                pls. 3-4. 1881.
            
            7. BOWER, F. O. On
              the Further Development of Welwitschia mirabilis. Quart. Jour. Micr.
              Sci. 21: 571-594. pls. 22-23. 1881.
            8. BOWER, F. O. The
              Germination and Embryology of Gnetum Gnemon. Quart. Jour. Micr. Sci.
                22: 278-298. pl. 25. 1882.
            9. STRASBURGER, E.
              Ueber das Verhalten des Pollens und die Befruchtungsvorgänge bei den Gymnospermen.
              Hist. Beitr. 4: 1-158. pls. 1-3. 1892.
            10. KARSTEN, H.
              Beiträge zur Entwickelungsgeschichte der Gattung Gnetum. Bot. Zeit. 50: 205-215, 221-231, 237-246. pls. 5-6. 1892.
            11. KARSTEN, H.
              Untersuchungen über die Gattung Gnetum. Ann. Jard. Bot. Buitenzorg 11: 195-218. pls. 17-19. 1893.
            12. KARSTEN, H. Zur
              Entwickelungsgeschichte der Gattung Gnetum. Cohn's Beitr. z. Biol. d. Pflzn. 6: 337-382. pls. 8-11. 1893.
            13. JACCARD, P. Le
              développement du pollen de l'Ephedra Helvetica. Archives des
              sciences physiques et naturelles. III. 30: 280-282. 1893. See review
              in Bot. Centralbl. Beihefte 4: 230. 1894.
            14. JACCARD, P.
              Recherches embryologiques sur l'Ephedra Helvetica (Inaug.
              dissertation. Zurich 1893). Bull. Soc. Vaudoise des sci. nat. 30:
                pls. 10. March, 1894. See review in Bot. Centralbl. 61: 111-113. 1895.
            15. LOTSY, J. P.
              Contributions to the Life-history of the Genus Gnetum. Ann. Jard. Bot. Buitenzorg II.
              1: 46-114. pls. 2-11. 1899.
          
        
        
        
          CHAPTER V
            FOSSIL GYMNOSPERMS
          THE numerous fossil remains, from the early Paleozoic onward, which
            have been referred to Gymnosperms, have been determined chiefly by their anatomical
            features. This result has come from the nature of the available material, but to the
            morphologist it is suggestive rather than demonstrative. A vast amount of material has
            been named, which has been made somewhat available for the morphologist by
              Solms-Laubach,3 and most
            recently by Scott.6
            Unfortunately, at this writing the second volume of Seward's Fossil Plants, which will
            deal with Gymnosperms, has not appeared. In any consideration of the phylogeny of
            Gymnosperms the historical point of view is absolutely essential, and in so far as there
            are any real morphological data among paleobotanical material they must be considered in
            the present connection.
          Paleobotanists have recognized a group of fossil forms intermediate between Ferns and
            Cycads, to which Potonié has given the name Cycadofilices. They were
            especially abundant during the Carboniferous, and many of them have been described as
            Ferns. Some of the characteristic forms included in this proposed intermediate group are
              Heterangium, Lyginodendron, and Medullosa. The testimony in reference to the position of these forms is entirely
            anatomical, but it is extremely suggestive of the intermediate position claimed for the
            group by most paleobotanists. The historic evidence seems to be clear that the paleozoic
            Ferns merged gradually into the Cycads.
          In addition to these transition forms, concerning which the morphologist must hold his
            judgment in suspense until the more essential structures have been discovered, there are
            certain extinct groups whose Gymnosperm character is undoubted. Among them the most
            conspicuous are the Cordaitales.
          
          
            CORDAITALES
            The amount of information that has been accumulated concerning this great Paleozoic
              group is a matter of surprise. Not only are the vegetative structures abundantly
              preserved, even in 
                FIG. 94.—Cordaites laevis: branch
                  (restored) bearing leaves and strobili, and also a large bud.—After GRAND' EURY.
               their minutest details, but the more telling reproductive structures are
              known sufficiently to indicate general relationships. The Cordaitales become evident
              in the Silurian, and increase  in display to the
              Carboniferous, when they were astonishingly abundant, the leaves often being packed
              together in masses on every layer of the deposits. It seems clear that this was the
              prevailing Gymnosperm forest type of the Paleozoic. They were tall, rather slender
              trees, with shafts from 10 to 30 meters in height, branching only above, and with a
              dense crown of branches on which simple large leaves were produced in great abundance
              (Fig. 94). The leaves were usually long, ribbonlike, and parallel-veined, from 20 to
              100 centimeters long and 15 to 20 centimeters broad. Scott6 says that "the habit of the Cordaitales must
              have been different from that of any trees with which we are now familiar. The species
              with comparatively short leaves may be compared with such Coniferae as Dammara (the Kauri Pine of New Zealand), or with some forms of Podocarpus, and these trees may best serve to give us some idea of the extinct
              family. But the large-leaved species must have had a habit very different from
              anything which we are accustomed to associate with the Gymnosperms at the present
              day."
            The anatomical character of the stem is in general plan that of the Conifers, but the
              very large pith, which appears in transverse diaphragms, is more suggestive of the
              Cycads. As in Conifers, the tracheary tissue begins with spiral vessels lying next to
              the pith, and the secondary wood is composed exclusively of tracheids with bordered
              pits which are usually in two or more rows and are densely crowded, so that they have
              a hexagonal outline. As this secondary wood resembles very closely that of Araucaria, it was named Araucarioxylon by Kraus. The
              cortex contains strands of fibrous sclerenchyma, and isolated gum receptacles.
            The leaves have conspicuous parallel veins, and in the majority of forms are
              elongated and strap-shaped, having very much the appearance of such monocotyledonous
              leaves as those of Yucca or Dracaena. The venation
              is repeatedly dichotomous, excepting in the narrowest leaves, which are almost
              grasslike. Sometimes, however, the leaves are short and obovate, and are said
              occasionally to branch dichotomously and even to become incised. In such leaf forms
              and venation there are suggestions of Ginkgo and of certain Ferns,
              while the ordinary elongated type, with its parallel veins, suggests Tumboa.
            The anatomical character of the leaf is practically that of  Cycads, and Scott calls attention to the fact that the structure of the
              leaf of Cordaites resembles that of a single pinna of the leaf of
              such a Cycad as Zamia, or one of the larger-leaved Araucarias. Leaf
              sections show a very xerophytic structure, hypodermal masses of sclerenchyma producing
              great firmness, if not rigidity. In the interior of the leaf, between the bundles,
              "transfusion tissue" is developed, the cells being elongated parallel to the epidermal
              layers, and so loosely organized as to appear like thin diaphragms between very large
              intercellular spaces, just as in the Cycads and Sciadopitys. Each
              vascular bundle is surrounded by a strong sheath, which connects with the hypodermal
              mass of sclerenchyma. Each bundle is of the mesarch type—that is, the secondary
              xylem occurs in two parts, with the primary spiral elements between them. This is
              exactly the structure of the leaf bundles of Cycads, and of other Paleozoic plants.
              The numerous stomata are depressed and occur in rows, apparently only upon the under
              surface. It is an interesting fact that the form and general structure of the leaf
              suggest the leaves of Conifers, while the anatomical features are more those of the
              leaves of Cycads.
            The roots which are regarded as belonging to the Cordaitales show structures which
              relate them easily to the stem. In the various specimens recorded the vascular
              cylinder of the root is diarch, triarch, or tetrarch.
            Chiefly through the researches of Renault, some knowledge of the strobili of a few
              species has been obtained. The strobili occur upon special shoots, which may be small
              or branched, and bear small catkinlike clusters (Fig. 94), which do not often exceed a
              centimeter in length. Externally the staminate and ovulate clusters are alike,
              although in some cases an ovulate strobilus may consist of a solitary ovule with few
              bracts. Each strobilus usually consists of a series of prominent leaflike bracts, in
              the axils of which the spore-bearing structures occur. It should be borne in mind that
              the following account is derived from the examination of a few sections of one or two
              species of a very large and probably diverse group.
            The staminate strobilus consists of a thick axis covered by long spirally arranged
              bracts, which resemble reduced leaves. Many of the bracts are sterile; but especially
              toward the apex of the strobilus these are replaced by structures which may be  fairly regarded as sporophylls. These sporophylls are
              narrower than the sterile bracts, and each bears at the apex a cluster of two to six
              sporangia, which are linear and erect, and dehisce by a longitudinal slit (Fig. 95,
                B). The sporophyll character of this structure is the view
              suggested by Renault, and according to this view it is morphologically a stamen.
              Solms-Laubach, however, regards each of these so-called stamens as a staminate flower,
              the 
                FIG. 95.—Cordaites, staminate
                  strobilus: A, transverse section; B,
                  longitudinal section of strobilus of C. Penjoni; C, a pollen grain, showing the group of internal cells.—After RENAULT.
               sporangia being sessile upon the summit of a pedicel. Such a view would
              suggest, as a parallel, the staminate flowers of Ephedra and Gnetum, in which two or more sessile sporangia are borne by a special
              axis which may be regarded as a pedicel, or at least a shoot. Scott suggests, however,
              that the whole cluster of strobili corresponds more to the staminate cluster of Ginkgo than to any other known Gymnosperm. In any event, the
              inflorescence is different from that of any other Gymnosperm, and  suggests a condition which needs further material before it can be
              homologized with any of them.
            The pollen grains are remarkably well preserved, the exine being cuticularized and
              covered with a fine "shagreenlike" reticulation. As these spores have been found both
              in the sporangia and in the pollen chamber, there can be no doubt as to their relation
              to the ovules examined. The most remarkable feature of the group is the presence of a
              distinct tissue within the pollen grain while still in the sporangium. This tissue
              consists of a group of small polygonal cells against the wall on one side (Fig. 95,
                C). After pollination, while in the pollen chamber, the spore is
              said to increase very much in size, and the internal tissue develops still further. If
              these statements can be relied upon, the male gametophyte of Cordaitales is one of
              extraordinary interest, for it is far more primitive in character than that of any
              other known Gymnosperm, and points to the earliest stages of heterospory, earlier than
              in any existing heterosporous Pteridophyte. Whether the cells of this internal tissue
              are vegetative or sperm-producing is a matter of conjecture. In any event, the
              reduction of the male gametophyte is very much less than in any other known
              Seed-plant. Taken in connection with the presence of ciliated male cells in the Cycads
              and Ginkgo, and of a very deep pollen chamber which eventually
              deepens down to the embryo sac, it might be inferred that in Cordaitales there was
              little if any development of a pollen tube, and that swimming male cells, if not
              actually sperms, were discharged within easy reach of the archegonia. It must be
              remembered that in the Cycads and Ginkgo the pollen tube does not
              serve the purpose of a sperm carrier, and there is no reason to suppose that there was
              any such method of sperm transfer in the Cordaitales. In case the internal tissue of
              the pollen grain is antheridial, it would indicate the production of more numerous
              male cells than in any other Seed-plant. The whole structure is so suggestive of a
              theoretical transition stage between Pteridophytes and Spermatophytes that it is a
              temptation to make more out of it than the amount of observed material may
              justify.
            The ovules occur in strobili similar to those which bear the stamens, but the bracts
              are longer and more overlapping, and a terminal tuft of long bracts crowns the
              strobilus. The solitary  ovules are evidently cauline,
              being borne at the summit of a short bractlet-bearing shoot, which arises from the
              axil of a bract. As has been mentioned before, the ovules may be reduced to a solitary
              one in a strobilus, and the bracts may be very few in number. Two envelops are
              apparent, and permit the same diversity of opinion as exists in reference to the
              ovular envelops in the Gnetales. It seems altogether simpler to regard the two
              envelops in Cordaites as two integuments, although there is no
              tubular prolongation of the inner integument as in the Gnetales. The nucellus develops
              a remarkably prominent and persistent beak, composed of modified and heavy-walled
              cells, through which a passageway leads to a large pollen chamber (Fig. 96). The whole
              structure of the nucellus recalls the Cycads and Ginkgo, and, as is
              the case with them, the nucellar tissue which caps the embryo sac disorganizes,
              permitting the persistent beak to settle down upon the embryo sac (Fig. 97). There is
              also a striking resemblance to the nucellus of Ginkgo, as described
              by Hirasé, in the fact that the endosperm develops a protuberance which supports the
              settling beak like a "tent-pole." Under the shelter of this improvised tent the
              archegonia are found and the male cells are discharged. The situation is so suggestive
              of Cycads and of Ginkgo that one can hardly escape the conviction
              that in the process of fertilization they are approximately the same. Traces of the
              archegonia have been found, so that their position is definitely determined.
            
              FIG. 96.—Cordianthus Grand' Euryi,
                showing the beak of the nucellus; wedged in the passageway are the large pollen
                grains, which show the shagreenlike surface and the internal group of
                cells.—After RENAULT.
            
            The ovulate structures of the Cordaitales as described above  are very suggestive of Taxus. The terminal ovule upon a
              short bractlet-bearing axis seems to be common to both. The similarity is increased by
              the fact that in most of the Cordaitales the testa develops into a fleshy outer layer
              and a stony inner one, which suggests the fleshy aril and stony seed coat of Taxus. Abundant remains of seeds are found, which apparently belong to
              the Cordaitales. In most cases the testa develops as indicated above, and closely
              resembles the seeds of Cycads and Ginkgo, as well as certain
              Conifers. In other cases, however, the seeds ripen dry and bear wings, which are
              exceedingly variable in form and position. Curiously enough, while seed sections have
              brought to light most of the structures referred to above, no embryos have been found.
              Probably their formation was much delayed, as in Ginkgo, Gnetum, and some Cycads.
            It seems evident that we are dealing here with a group of Gymnosperms which deserves
              to be set apart as of equal rank 
                FIG. 97.—Cycadinocarpus
                    Augustodunensis, showing upper part of ovule in longitudinal section: int, integument; mi, micropyle; pc, pollen chamber containing pollen grains; nu, remains
                  of nucellus; ar, archegonia; pr,
                  endosperm.—After RENAULT.
               with Cycadales, Ginkgoales, and Coniferales. It certainly presents important
              characters which serve to define it as clearly as any of the living groups, and its
              ancient character suggests that it must have been very intimately associated with the
              beginnings of the Gymnosperm phylum.
          
          
          
            BENNETTITALES
            Cordaitales were the dominant Paleozoic Gymnosperms, and associated with them were
              the numerous Cycadofilices, whose synthetic character is indicated by the name. The
              true Cycadean type, however, does not become apparent until the Mesozoic; and all
              through that age, from the Triassic to the Lower Cretaceous, there was an
              extraordinary display of Cycadean forms. In anatomy and general vegetative characters
              the resemblance to living Cycads is undoubted, but in the majority of cases the
              spore-producing structures are remarkably different. These so-called anomalous
              Cycadean forms of the Mesozoic have been taken to represent a fifth great Gymnosperm
              phylum, which constituted the dominant vegetation of the Mesozoic, much as the
              Dicotyledons dominate the flora of to-day.
            The remains of Bennettitales have been found in abundance in the explored regions of
              both hemispheres, and they have been described under a variety of generic names, Bennettites, Cycadeoidea, and Cycadella being the principal ones. The trunk is of the tuberous type, and is
              covered by an armor of closely imbricated persistent leaf bases. This character,
              together with the histological details of the stem tissues, the arrangement, form, and
              anatomy of the leaves, all have their counterpart in living Cycads. In two important
              respects, however, the Bennettitales differ from the Cycadales in external features.
              One is in the occurrence of numerous short, lateral, and probably axillary shoots
              which bore the inflorescence; the other is in the presence of scalelike hairs, which
              were packed between the leaf bases and about the inflorescence and its bracts, and
              resemble the so-called "ramenta" of Ferns rather than any known structure in
              Cycadales. The course of the leaf traces in Bennettitales differs decidedly from that
              in living Cycadales. In the latter, two bundles leave the stele near together, "and
              curving in opposite directions pass nearly halfway round the stem, thus entering the
              leaf base on the opposite side from their starting points." Scott6 describes the leaf traces in Bennettitales as
              follows: "A single bundle leaves the ring, starting from the lower angle of one of the
              meshes. . . . As the leaf trace passes out through the cortex, it assumes a horseshoe
              form, with the concave side  inward. It then breaks up
              into about twenty smaller bundles, which enter the base of the leaf."
            The ovulate inflorescence, however, is most remarkable, and unlike anything known in
              Gymnosperms. The description of Bennettites Gibsonianus given by
                Carruthers1 and by
                Solms-Laubach,2 and found to
              apply to other forms, is as follows: The strobilus is a pear-shaped body, which
              terminates a short axillary shoot from the main stem, and in the species cited is
              about 5 centimeters long. Only fully ripened specimens, as shown by the seeds, have
              been examined. The strobilus is completely invested by bracts, which spring from the
              shoot and close in over the apex (Fig. 98).
            
              FIG. 98.—Bennettites Gibsonianus,
                diagram of ovulate strobilus: re, receptacle; br, ensheathing sterile bracts; s, seeds, each borne on a
                long stalk which arises from the receptacle, and in each an embryo with two
                cotyledons; p, dilated ends of the interseminal scales, which
                become confluent.—Modified by SCOTT, after SOLMS-LAUBACH and POTONIÉ.
            
            An account of the details of the structure is adapted from Scott6 as follows: The stalk is expanded into a
              hemispherical receptacle, on which all the organs of the fruit are inserted. From the
              convex surface of the receptacle spring a great number of slender stalks, which pass
              vertically upward, or diverge slightly toward the curved surface of the fruit. Each of
              these stalks bears at its end a single erect seed, with the micropyle directed
              outward. The seeds are so placed that the longitudinal axis always meets the surface
              of the fruit approximately at a right angle. The spaces between the stalks are packed
              with scales, which are dilated at their distal ends, between the seeds, so as to form
              a continuous envelop, only interrupted by narrow pits, into which the seeds exactly
              fit. The surface of the strobilus, therefore, appears as a continuous tissue, which is
              perforated only by the micropyles of the seeds.
            The whole structure presents the appearance of a remarkably  modified strobilus, whose axis has become shortened and dilated into a
              receptacle, resulting in a massing of bracts and axillary sporangiferous shoots, the
              bracts in ripening organizing by their tips a continuous investment. Whether this
              peculiar character of the bracts represents a post-fertilization change, or is
              developed before pollination, is a question for future discovery to answer. In any
              event, the solitary cauline ovule, terminal upon an axis of variable order, seems to
              represent an ancient Gymnosperm condition.
            
              FIG. 99.—Bennettites Gibsonianus,
                longitudinal section of seed: a, the entering vascular bundle; b, its expansion at base of nucellus; c, the
                embryo with two unequal cotyledons; d, the testa, terminating
                above in the tubular process (d'), which leads to the surface; e, probably remains of the nucellar beak, containing the pollen
                chamber.—After SOLMS-LAUBACH.
            
            From the testa of the seed it is impossible to determine the nature of the
              integuments. The testa is closely adherent on the outside to the inclosing and
              confluent tips of the bracts, and shows three layers, the middle one composed of very
              thick-walled tissue, and much dilated toward the micropyle. The innermost layer forms
              the tubular micropyle, which becomes somewhat dilated at the apex and opens upon the
              surface of the strobilus. It would appear that two integuments are indicated, an inner
              delicate one continued into the tubular micropyle, and a much heavier outer one. The
              third or outermost layer of the testa, which is closely adherent to the surrounding
              bract tissue, may represent either an external layer of the outer integument, or a
              limiting layer of the bract tissue. Such an interpretation would conform in general
              with the structure of the ovule in all the more primitive Gymnosperm types.
            Longitudinal sections of the seeds have also revealed a nucellar beak and a large
              pollen chamber, which suggests Cordaitales, Cycadales, and Ginkgoales. One of the most
              striking characters revealed by the seed, however, is the occurrence of a large
              dicotyledonous embryo completely filling the embryo sac,  in fact the whole seed with the exception of the beak (Fig. 99). The evident
              absence of a suspensor at once suggests Ginkgo, but the nearly
              complete disappearance of the endosperm is without a parallel among Gymnosperms, so
              far as studied.
            The morphological features of Bennettitales have been obtained heretofore almost
              exclusively from European material, but the remarkably rich display of this group in
              the Mesozoic flora of the United States, as developed by Professor Lester F. Ward and
              his associates, promises to supply much additional information. Large collections of
              this material are in the possession of the United States National Museum, and of the
              Yale University Museum, and the minuter structural characters are being investigated
              by Dr. G. R. Wieland, who has published preliminary papers concerning the "male
                flower"4 and the "female
                fructification"5 of species
              of Cycadeoidea. In some of the species, as C.
                Wielandi, the ovulate strobilus seems to conform almost exactly to the
              description of the strobilus of 
                FIG. 100.—Cycadeoidea Wielandi,
                  transverse section of a portion of the ovulate strobilus, showing the seed-stalks
                  with their central bundles, and the interseminal scales packed in
                  between.—From a photograph by C. E. BEECHER from a
                  section made by G. R. WIELAND from a specimen in Yale
                  University Museum.
              
              Bennettites Gibsonianus, as given above. There is the same broad
              receptacle bearing thickly set stalked seeds and interseminal scales (Fig. 100), and
              all ensheathed by overlapping bracts to form an ovoid body (Fig. 98).
            The discovery of microsporophylls and of bisporangiate 
                strobili,7 however, are the
              most interesting of Wieland's results thus far. The staminate strobili originally
                described4 were taken from
              specimens of Cycadeoidea ingens, and apparently resemble the ovulate
              strobili of the group in all important features. Each strobilus is borne terminally
              upon an axillary dwarf shoot, and is ensheathed by a cluster of bracts. There is plain
              indication of the existence of a thick central axis upon which the numerous
              sporophylls were crowded, each sporophyll bearing numerous sori. This first meager
              description of a staminate strobilus has been supplemented by later preparations of
              Wieland from the strobili of the remarkable Cycadeoidea
                Dacotensis.5 With great
              generosity Dr. Wieland has placed these recent preparations at our disposal, and from
              them the following account is written:
            
              FIG. 101.—Cycadeoidea Dacotensis, a
                small part of a radial oblique section of a strobilus, showing some of the numerous
                synangia, x 8.—From preparation made by G. R. WIELAND from
                specimen in Yale University Museum.
            
            The strobilus of Cycadeoidea Dacotensis is of the usual ovoid form,
              being completely ensheathed by overlapping sterile bracts. Just within the ensheathing
              bracts there is a set of very prominent microsporophylls, whose abaxial surfaces are
              densely covered by well-defined sori (Fig. 101). As is evident from the figure, and
              much more conspicuously so in other preparations, the sori occur closely packed
              together in well-defined lines. The section of a sorus reveals characters unknown
              heretofore among Gymnosperms, and remarkably similar to those of Marattiaceae (Fig.
              102). The structure seems to be almost identical with that of the synangium of Marattia or of Danaea, and presents more the
              appearance of a plurilocular sporangium than of a sorus. Superficially there is a wall
              of heavy cells, and between it and the regular sporangial chambers there is a more
              delicate tissue. The sporangial chambers, separated from one another  by septa consisting of a single plate of cells, extend
              the full length of the broad synangium—that is, from its base to its apex, and
              form two rows, one on each face of the synangium, probably separated from each other
              by a few layers of intervening tissue. There is every evidence that the whole
              structure at first consisted of a mass of homogeneous tissue, in which regularly
              placed sporogenous masses were differentiated, each mass standing for a sporangium,
              exactly as in Marattia and in Danaea. At maturity
              the tissue between the two rows of sporangia apparently breaks down, at least the
              synangium splits into two valves, just as in the genera of Marattiaceae referred to.
              In Fig. 101 transverse sections of the two rows of sporangia may be seen in most
              cases, and in a few instances a different point of view has made visible the septa
              which separate the sporangial chambers. In Fig. 103 this is especially evident, where
              a single synangium presents a somewhat striking resemblance to the trabeculate
              sporangium of Isoetes.
            
              FIG. 102.—Cycadeoidea Dacotensis,
                transverse section of a small portion of a synangium, showing outer layer of
                heavy-walled cells, the inner more delicate tissue, and three sporangial chambers
                containing pollen grains (p).
            
            We have used the terms sorus and synangium indiscriminately in describing these
              sporangial structures, upon the hypothesis that a synangium and a sorus are
              morphological equivalents. We recognize the fact that such a synangium as we have
              described may be regarded as a single plurilocular sporangium, resulting from the
              sterilization of potential sporogenous tissue, as in Isoetes. To
              discuss this question, however, does not fall within the purpose of this book. The
              important fact to the student of Gymnosperms is that among the Bennettitales there are
              forms whose microsporangiate structures are almost identical with those of such Ferns
              as Marattia and Danaea, whether these structures
              be called sori, synangia, or plurilocular sporangia.
            
            
              FIG. 103.—Cycadeoidea Dacotensis, a very
                small part of a somewhat tangential longitudinal section of a strobilus, to show in
                side view the septa of a synangium, x 8.—From preparation made by G. R. WIELAND from specimen in Yale University Museum.
            
            We have described the strobilus of Cycadeoidea Dacotensis as
              consisting of a sheath of overlapping bracts, within which microsporophylls bearing
              Marattialike synangia occur. Within the microsporophylls, and towards the base of the
              strobilus, there is discovered what at first sight appears to be merely the conical
              apex of the axis of the strobilus, but which proves to be the ovulate region (Fig.
              104). The conical receptacle is covered all over with the characteristic stalked seeds
              and "interseminal scales." In this case the "receptacle" really resembles an axis, and
              is of the ordinary Gymnosperm type; while in Bennettites and certain
              species of Cycadeoidea the receptacle is flattened. This elongated
              ovulate axis is not always associated with a bisporangiate strobilus, as it occurs in
              strictly ovulate strobili. 
                FIG. 104.—Cycadeoidea Dacotensis,
                  longitudinal section through basal portion of strobilus, showing at the left
                  portions of synangium-covered sporophylls, and at the right the ovulate region of
                  the strobilus, x 4.—From preparation made by G. R. WIELAND from specimen in Yale University Museum.
               In Fig. 105 there is shown a transverse section of a young ovulate strobilus
              of Cycadeoidea colossalis, whose axis is of the elongated type, as
              in the bisporangiate C. Dacotensis (Fig. 101), but which is invested
              directly by the ensheathing sterile bracts. The illustration also shows some of the
              characteristic ramenta which were packed between the superficial sheath and the
              ovuliferous  part of the strobilus. The two distinct
              ovules show that they are young by the fact that their stalks have not elongated.
            
              FIG. 105.—Cycadeoidea colossalis,
                transverse section through the central region of a very young strobilus, showing the
                axis-bearing stalked ovules and interseminal scales, x 10.—From preparation
                made by G. R. WIELAND from specimen in Yale University
                Museum.
            
            The monoecious habit among Gymnosperms is not unusual, although it has never been
              found among Cycads; but that this habit should take the form of a bisporangiate
              strobilus is especially interesting. Such strobili are found occasionally among
              Conifers, but they are regarded as abnormal (Fig. 59). To discuss the significance of
              these bisporangiate strobili seems to us premature at present, since the results thus
              far announced are very meager as compared with those we have a right to expect. It may
              be well, however, to make the following statements. That a bisporangiate strobilus
              must have existed at some time among the ancestral forms of Gymnosperms has already
              been indicated by Tumboa, in which the association of the two forms
              of sporangia is more intimate than in Cycadeoidea. It seems evident,
              also, that a bisporangiate strobilus holds no more relation to an angiospermous
              "flower" than does a monosporangiate strobilus; and that neither type of strobilus
              among Gymnosperms is related to the angiospermous flower in any way. Whether a
              bisporangiate or a monosporangiate strobilus is the more primitive is a question that
              probably finds its answer in the statement that both conditions exist in the most
              primitive forms. In Bennettitales, therefore, we are discovering interesting
              transitions between Pteridophytes and living Gymnosperms, but there is not as much
              suggestion of Angiosperms as the living Gymnosperms have already given.
            While the characters of Bennettitales justify the belief that they must be closely
              associated with Cycadales, the axillary  dwarf shoots,
              the synangia, the remarkably modified and complex ovulate strobili, the occasional
              bisporangiate strobili, and the entire replacement of endosperm by an embryo which
              develops without a suspensor, are characters which strongly confirm the suggestion
              that the group should be regarded as one of the main divisions of the Gymnosperms.
          
          
            CYCADALES
            During the Mesozoic, along with the Bennettitales, the Cycadales undoubtedly existed,
              but the evidence is scanty. The reputation of the Mesozoic as "the age of Cycads"
              seems to have come rather from the abundant remains of Bennettitales. Certain remains
              may be taken fairly to represent Cycads, and doubtless numerous extinct genera of
              Cycads may have existed, but no modern genus seems to have an unclouded title in the
              Mesozoic except Cycas, which has been recognized in the Rhaetic beds
              between the Lias and the Trias. The antiquity of Cycas confirms
              morphological opinion concerning it, as it is well separated from the other Cycads in
              features which are recognized as primitive.
          
          
            GINKGOALES
            The characteristic foliage of Ginkgo makes it easy of recognition,
              although some forms which have been referred to it may prove to be Ferns. However,
              putting together the evidence of foliage, flowers, and seeds, it is evident that the
              group was a very widespread one in the Jurassic, and that the testimony is very strong
              for claiming its existence during the Paleozoic. The indefiniteness of its occurrence
              in the Paleozoic is based upon the fact of its association with the great group
              Cordaitales, into which it seems to merge. The conclusion reached by Scott6 is as follows: "On the whole,
              the sum of the fossil evidence is of sufficient weight to prove the great antiquity of
              the gymnospermous family now represented by the Maidenhair tree, which appears to be
              best regarded as the one surviving member of an ancient stock, derived from the same
              cycle of affinity as the Paleozoic Cordaiteae, once the dominant type of
              Gymnosperms."
          
          
          
            CONIFERALES
            It would be a matter of great interest if the relative antiquity of the various
              groups of Conifers could be determined. The varied structures of this dominant group
              are extremely perplexing to relate phylogenetically, and some definite historical data
              would go far toward suggesting the possible sequence. Upon morphological grounds one
              might be tempted to regard the Taxeae as the most primitive of Conifers, and Abieteae,
              especially Pinus, as the most highly specialized and recent, but so
              far as there is any historical testimony it is diametrically opposed to such a
              view.
            The remains of undoubted Conifers occur from the later Paleozoic (Permian) on, and
              the total amount of material is enormous. Elaborate studies have sought to determine
              this material upon the basis of anatomical structure, and the literature of
              paleobotany is full of names suggestive of affinities with modern genera, but these
              methods have proved to be absolutely untrustworthy. The sure evidence of
              well-preserved strobili associated with vegetative structures is lacking, so that the
              ancient history of this great group is still in a chaotic condition.
            That the phylum is a very ancient one is evidenced by the fact that it is known to
              have existed during the later periods of the Paleozoic, and possibly earlier, but to
              what modern group these Permian forms are most nearly allied is absolutely unknown.
              Their resemblance to the Araucarieae in general vegetative habit has suggested an
              Araucarian affinity, but such evidence as the strobili furnish contradicts this.
            Leaving these earliest Permian forms of doubtful affinity, the first suggestion of a
              modern group is furnished by the extinct genus Voltzia of the Upper
              Permian and Triassic, which has been referred, apparently on fairly safe evidence, to
              the Taxodieae, approaching Cryptomeria in the lobed character of the
              ovuliferous scale. True Araucarieae and Cupresseae can not be traced with certainty
              below the Jurassic; Abieteae, allied to Pinus, are not recognized
              earlier than the Wealden; while Taxeae have not been discovered lower than the
              Cretaceous.
            
            It is hardly possible that such a sequence represents the relative age of the
              distinct differentiation of these groups, for it can not be corroborated upon any
              theory of morphological relationship.
          
          
            LITERATURE CITED
            1. CARRUTHERS, W. On
              gymnospermatous Fruits from the Secondary Rocks of Britain. Journal of Botany 5: 1 seq. 1867.
            2. SOLMS-LAUBACH, H. Ueber die Fructification von Bennettites
                Gibsonianus Carr. Bot. Zeit. 48: 789-798, 805-815, 821-833,
              843-847. pls. 9-10. 1890.
            3. SOLMS-LAUBACH, H. Fossil Botany. 1891.
            4. WIELAND, G. R. A
              Study of some American Fossil Cycads. Part I. The Male Flower of Cycadeoidea. Am.
              Jour. Sci. IV. 7: 223-226. pls. 2-4. 1899.
            5. WIELAND, G. R. A
              Study of some American Fossil Cycads. Part III. The Female Fructification of
              Cycadeoidea. Am. Jour. Sci. IV. 7: 383-391. pls.
                8-10. 1899.
            6. SCOTT, D. H.
              Studies in Fossil Botany. 1900.
            7. WIELAND, G. R. The
              Yale Collection of Fossil Cycads. The Yale Scientific Monthly 6:
              March, 1900.
          
        
        
        
          CHAPTER VI
            COMPARATIVE MORPHOLOGY OF GYMNOSPERMS
          AFTER having considered the details of structure presented by the
            living and extinct groups of Gymnosperms, it will be well to summarize them, and to
            obtain some conception of Gymnosperms as a single well-defined assemblage of forms. In
            this way the contrasting characters of the different groups may be emphasized, and the
            relations of Gymnosperms to Pteridophytes on the one hand, and to Angiosperms on the
            other, may be made to stand out more sharply.
          
            I. THE VEGETATIVE ORGANS
            
              THE STEM
              All known Gymnosperms are woody plants, almost all being trees. Whether the group
                ever contained herbaceous members or not is an interesting but an unanswerable
                question. The short tuberous stems of many Cycads, of Bennettitales, and of Tumboa; the simple, palmlike column of certain Cycads; the tall
                trunk of the Cordaitales, branching only above; the excurrent shaft of most of the
                Conifers and of Ginkgo with its symmetrical monopodial branching;
                the trailing and spreading habit of certain Conifers; the straggling shrubby habit
                of Ephedra; and the high climbing habit of certain species of Gnetum, is a list which seems to exhaust the possible habits of
                woody stems. Amidst all this great variety of form there is a uniform xerophytic
                structure, indicating adaptation to relatively hard conditions of living. The
                habitats of Gymnosperms to-day indicate that they either are not at home in the more
                genial conditions affected by Angiosperms, or have not been able to maintain
                themselves in competition with this great group. In any event, it seems clear that
                the conditions for plant  life are more favorable now
                than at any previous time in the history of plants.
              The anatomy of the stem shows characters in common with Pteridophytes, others
                suggestive of Dicotyledons, and still others peculiar to the group. In all
                Gymnosperms the primary vascular bundles are open collateral, contain true tracheae,
                and are organized into a hollow cylinder inclosing a more or less extensive pith
                region. At this point the resemblance to the dicotyledonous stem ceases. In many
                Cycads the primary cambium is very short-lived, a succession of secondary cortical
                cambium cylinders developing successive sets of cauline bundles. This development of
                successive cortical cylinders of vascular strands seems to represent a very ancient
                type of stem. It is displayed by Cycas, Encephalartos, Macrozamia, and Bowenia,
                among the Cycads, belonged to the Bennettitales, and is apparently shared by Gnetum and Tumboa. Furthermore, these secondary
                vascular bundles are of the concentric type in Cycas, and give
                evidence in Macrozamia and Bowenia of a
                transition from the concentric to the collateral type. The concentric type of bundle
                is also displayed in the peduncles and leaves of other genera, as Stangeria, Zamia, and Ceratozamia, as
                well as in Bennettitales. It is significant, also, that this type of stem
                characterized the so-called Cycadofilices.
              The gradual abandonment of the cortical cambiums, and the conversion of concentric
                into collateral bundles, seems to have taken place in the Cycads, as evidenced by
                  Zamia, Dioon, and Stangeria.
                In Cordaitales, Coniferales, and Ephedra, the primary cambium
                develops all of the secondary vascular tissue, and the collateral type of bundle is
                fixed. It is interesting to note that Cordaitales, the most ancient distinct group
                of Gymnosperms, are included in this last list, and it indicates an improbability
                that there is any definite and single type of Gymnosperm stem that can be regarded
                as the most ancient.
              The development of tracheids with bordered pits has long been regarded as a
                distinctly Gymnosperm character, but they seem to be wanting in Tumboa, and are said to be present in certain fossil Pteridophytes. In any
                event, it is a type of vessel displayed almost exclusively by Gymnosperms, and
                almost without exception among them. A transition from tracheids with bordered pits
                to true tracheary vessels seems to be evident in 
                Ephedra, if not in the other Gnetales, while the very regular
                massing of these tracheids to form the secondary wood is characteristic of
                Conifers.
              It is also worthy of note that there are no distinct nodes in the stems of
                Cycadales and Bennettitales; that they are usually evident, but often indistinct in
                Ginkgoales, Cordaitales, and Coniferales; and that in Gnetales they are distinctly
                developed.
            
            
              THE LEAF
              The spiral and cyclic arrangements are definitely separated by great groups, the
                Cupresseae and Gnetales being cyclic, the other Gymnosperms spiral.
              The tendency to heterophylly is a very strong one, scale leaves being associated
                with foliage leaves in every great group. In Cycadales there is a regular
                alternation of the two types, while in Coniferales the extreme of diversity is
                reached. In Coniferales the primitive type of shoot seems to have consisted of axes
                all of which were clothed with free needle leaves, which later became intermixed
                with scales; while in the highly specialized genus Pinus the
                foliage leaves abandon the main axes, and are pushed out on dwarf shoots to the
                extremities of the branch system.
              The foliage leaves are remarkably varied in form and size and venation, being
                pinnately branched and more or less dichotomously veined in Cycadales and
                Bennettitales, broad and dichotomously veined in Ginkgoales, characteristically
                acicular in most Coniferales, ribbonlike and parallel-veined in Cordaitales and Tumboa, and broad and reticulately veined in Gnetum. It is also a noteworthy fact that the fernlike leaves of some of the
                Cycads also show the characteristic circinate vernation of Ferns.
              Although variable in form and venation, the foliage leaves of Gymnosperms are
                fairly constant in certain points of structure, all of them, with few exceptions,
                developing rigid protective structures, and having a limited distribution of the
                vascular system, with a characteristic development of "transfusion tissue."
            
            
              THE ROOT
              So far as studied, the roots of Gymnosperms seem to be of very uniform structure.
                As distinct from Pteridophytes the  strong tap root is
                to be noted; while the peculiar origin of the root cap seems to distinguish the
                group as a whole from Angiosperms. There is no distinct calyptrogen, but the
                periblem layers are continuous over the tip, and according to Strasburger each with
                its own meristem. As the layers over the tip continue to divide, the outer ones
                become more or less separated and dead, and function as a cap. The primary vascular
                cylinder seems to be very uniformly diarch, a simpler type than prevails among
                Dicotyledons, and much simpler than in Monocotyledons.
            
          
          
            II. THE SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS
            
              THE MICROSPORANGIUM
              The microsporangia are always developed in connection with a strobilus or
                strobiluslike structure, which in the genus Cycas is terminal upon
                the main axis, and may be so in the other genera of Cycadales; but it is lateral in
                all other Gymnosperms, and either axillary or borne upon axillary spur shoots. The
                strobili are almost universally monosporangiate, Tumboa giving
                evidence of a former bisporangiate condition in the occurrence of a sterile ovule in
                the staminate "flowers," and the Bennettitales, in some cases at least, displaying a
                bisporangiate strobilus.
              In most Gymnosperms the microsporangia seem to be distinctly foliar, being borne by
                an undoubted sporophyll. In some genera of Cycadales (as Cycas,
                  Macrozamia, Ceratozamia, and Stangeria), and in Bennettitales, so far as known, the very numerous
                sporangia, often in definite sori, and borne upon the under surface of broad scales,
                are very suggestive of Filicales. In other Gymnosperms, however, the sporophylls are
                more modified, and the sporangia are much fewer in number, frequently being reduced
                to two upon each sporophyll. In certain genera of Cycads (as species of Zamia) and of Conifers (as Taxus), the peltate type of
                sporophyll is found, and the sporophyll of Ginkgo may be regarded
                as a modification of it. In Conifers in general, however, the expanded portion of
                the sporophyll develops in the plane of the stalklike base.
              In Ephedra and Gnetum the microsporangia seem
                to be distinctly cauline, and are developed near the apex of a short lateral axis
                which bears coalescent bractlets ("perianth"); but in Tumboa there
                seems to be no question as to the sporophyll 
                character of the sporangium-bearing structure, which usually consists of six
                monadelphous stamens. Of course it is possible to conceive of the so-called short
                axis in Ephedra and Gnetum as monadelphous
                stamens, but this hypothesis does not seem to be necessary.
              Special interest attaches to the sporangium-bearing structure of the Cordaitales,
                both on account of its peculiarity, and on account of the antiquity of the group. It
                is a debatable question whether the structure is a sporophyll or a lateral axis, but
                in any event the sporangia are erect and in a terminal cluster. The terminal
                position of the sporangia finds its parallel in all the genera of Gnetales, and is
                no indication of their foliar or cauline character. It seems that the most primitive
                type of microsporophyll among Gymnosperms must be that displayed by Cycas and its related genera, and by the Bennettitales, but the oldest
                microsporophylls known, those of Cordaitales, seem to hold no clear relation to
                them. It may be that when the spore-producing members of the Cycadofilices are known
                some light will be thrown upon the evolution of the microsporophyll in
                Gymnosperms.
              The development of the sporangium in all the forms investigated is quite uniform,
                and is of the ordinary eusporangiate type. The archesporium consists of a hypodermal
                plate of cells, which divide by periclinal walls, separating an outer and sterile
                wall layer from an inner sporogenous one. By subsequent divisions a wall of three to
                seven layers is developed outside of the sporogenous tissue and within the
                epidermis. Numerous spore mother cells are organized, and in this condition the
                sporangium passes the winter or the rest period.
              Gymnosperms seem to be universally anemophilous, although it is claimed that Tumboa is probably entomophilous. The extreme of anemophilous
                adaptation has been attained by the winged pollen grains of the dominant modern
                genera Pinus and Podocarpus.
            
            
              THE MEGASPORANGIUM
              The presence or not of a megasporophyll is one of the problems of the group, which
                has been discussed sufficiently elsewhere. It seems clear that the ovules are both
                foliar and cauline. They are certainly foliar in most if not all of the  Cycadales, and probably so in Ginkgo,
                although in the latter case the supposed carpel is a very rudimentary structure.
                Among the Cordaitales, Bennettitales, Gnetales, and Taxaceae, the ovules seem to be
                clearly cauline; while among the Pinaceae the carpel is said to be "reduced to the
                ovule"; the latter therefore would be essentially cauline. One is tempted to regard
                the foliar ovule as the more primitive type, and to trace the reduction of the
                sporophyll from Cycas, where it is well expressed, through Ginkgo, in which it is much reduced, to the Conifers and Gnetales,
                in which it is eliminated. To such a view, however, the testimony of history is
                opposed, for among the Cordaitales, the most ancient of recognized Gymnosperm
                groups, the ovules were plainly cauline, and apparently so among the Bennettitales,
                the most ancient of the Cycadean forms. The evidence seems to be that the foliar
                ovule does not necessarily indicate a more primitive group than the cauline, and
                that the distinction between these two types of ovules is more arbitrary than real,
                often impossible to apply, and of no special significance.
              The question of integuments is another Gymnosperm problem. The usual statement is
                that the integument is single in all Gymnosperms except Gnetum,
                and this certainly expresses the result of ordinary observation. If the definition
                of integument be restricted to such structures as receive the name in Angiosperms,
                then it can be claimed that one integument is the rule among Gymnosperms. If it be
                allowed, however, that the integument may become so modified as to lose its
                character of an ordinary investment of the ovule, we are launched into a discussion
                whose merits can not be decided by demonstration. It is not clear why it is
                essential for so ancient and diversified a group as the Gymnosperms not to vary in
                the number of its integuments.
              As opposed to the ordinary view that one integument characterizes the group, and
                Lotsy would even include Gnetum in this generalization, is the
                view of Čelakovský that the whole group is characterized by two integuments, the
                outer one of which is often remarkably modified. This view certainly sweeps into one
                category a number of problematical structures and has the attractiveness of
                uniformity. The application of this theory would result somewhat as follows: Among
                the  ancient Cordaitales the most obvious explanation
                of the ovule section is the presence of two distinct integuments, and the testa of
                the Bennettitales indicates the same fact in that group. In Cycads, Ginkgo, Cephalotaxus, Podocarpus, etc.,
                the outer fleshy and inner bony layers may be regarded as representing two
                integuments structurally, which have become connate; while in Taxus, Dacrydium, Microcachrys, etc.,
                the outer flesh-forming integument has remained or has become distinct as the
                so-called "aril." In the Pinaceae the most remarkable modification is displayed, the
                outer integument having entered into the structure of the "ovuliferous scale." Among
                the Gnetales the inner integument is produced into the remarkably long and tubular
                micropyle, while the outer one has been usually designated a "perianth."
              It is evident that between distinct bracts on the one hand and a genuine integument
                on the other there may be all sorts of intergradations, and that a hard-and-fast
                morphological line probably does not exist. We can recognize in all Gymnosperms a
                single undoubted integument, but whether the next outer structure should be called
                an outer integument, an aril, a perianth, an ovuliferous scale, or what not, seems
                impossible and perhaps unimportant to decide.
              The nucellus of the group presents some features which seem to be important. In the
                whole group there is a remarkable development of sterile tissue above the single or
                several sporogenous cells, which thus appear imbedded in the chalazal region of the
                ovule. Among the more primitive Gymnosperms (Cordaitales, Bennettitales, Cycadales,
                and Ginkgoales) this sterile mass differentiates into a firm persistent beak at the
                apex, and a loose tissue between the beak and the embryo sac. In the same groups a
                deep pollen chamber is developed within the beak, the loose tissue becomes broken
                down by rhizoidlike pollen tubes, and the beak settles down upon the embryo sac.
                This uniform structure in all the more primitive forms certainly has to do with the
                more primitive phases of siphonogamy, which will be discussed more fully under
                fertilization. Among the Coniferales and Gnetales the beak is not developed, but the
                outer micropylar layers of the nucellus are of firmer tissue than those beneath, and
                occasionally the tip of the nucellus breaks down into a cup-like depression which
                holds the pollen grains, as has been  observed in Pinus and in Gnetum. An exception must be made of
                  Tumboa, in which the persistent beak is formed, which is riddled
                with passageways but contains no definite pollen chamber. Sequoia
                also presents an interesting modification, the micropylar sterile region of the
                nucellus being but feebly developed, the sterile tissue beneath the sporogenous mass
                growing in a remarkable way and being penetrated by the elongated and tubelike
                megaspore.
              The origin of the deep-seated sporogenous cell or group is an open question for
                most forms. The general statement is that it is derived from an archesporium
                consisting of hypodermal cells, and that periclinal divisions cut off outer sterile
                cells which build up the remarkable mass of sterile tissue. This has been definitely
                observed in a very few forms and has been inferred for the rest. It coincides with
                the well-known sequence in Angiosperms, and may prove to be true of Gymnosperms in
                general, but we have not been able to verify it as yet in Pinus.
                The first differentiation of sporogenous tissue usually visible is the appearance of
                one or several sporogenous cells in the chalazal region of the ovule.
            
          
          
            III. THE GAMETOPHYTES
            
              THE FEMALE GAMETOPHYTE
              With the exception of Tumboa and Gnetum, the
                structure of the female gametophyte is very uniform in Gymnosperms, and recalls in a
                general way the female gametophyte of such heterosporous Pteridophytes as Selaginella and Isoetes. This resemblance,
                however, is very general, and should not be pushed too far, as is shown by recent
                investigations.
              The general statement is that the mother cell divides and organizes a row of
                potential megaspores, the lowest of which becomes the functional megaspore. We have
                recently succeeded in verifying this statement for Pinus (Fig.
                106). In this genus we have repeatedly observed a single cell, usually centrally
                placed in the chalazal region, which by its increase in size and its contents is
                evidently the functional mother cell; but we have only a single preparation to show
                that it develops a row of potential megaspores. We suspect that in Pinus, and in many other Gymnosperms, there is but a single primary
                sporogenous cell,  which passes over directly into a
                mother cell, and that the peculiar differentiation and breaking down of a zone of
                tissue about it has led to the impression of a sporogenous mass.
              In some cases where there is more than one mother cell, two or more megaspores
                begin to develop, and in Sequoia the sterile megaspores are
                prominent and persistent, but as a rule one soon becomes dominant at the expense of
                the rest and of the adjacent nucellar tissue.
              
                FIG. 106.—Pinus Laricio, showing the
                  four potential megaspores derived from the mother cell, x 666.
              
              The mother cell increases in size in the usual way, and early in its history begins
                to germinate. The sequence of events seems to be very uniform, being free nuclear
                division (usually about eight simultaneous divisions), parietal placing of free
                nuclei in a cytoplasmic layer, organization of parietal tissue, and gradual filling
                of the embryo sac by centripetal growth. The cases of Tumboa and
                  Gnetum are peculiar in that there is a distinct polarity in the
                tissues of the sac, and an appearance of reproductive cells in a sac not filled with
                tissue. In Tumboa the micropylar region of the sac contains cells
                but loosely aggregated when the reproductive cells appear, while in Gnetum the micropylar end of the sac, and in some species the whole sac,
                contains only free nuclei when fertilization occurs. Indications of the same
                tendency in other forms are not lacking. In Sequoia it is reported
                that while cell formation is taking place at the two extremities of the sac, free
                nuclear division continues in the middle region, the sac thus being distinctly
                divided into its reproductive and nutritive regions.
              In the development of the archegonia, which are variable in number and in
                distribution, there are some features that seem peculiar to the group. The neck
                canal cell series, which is by no means prominent in the Pteridophytes, is not
                represented at all in the Gymnosperms; and the ventral canal cell, cut off
                immediately before fertilization, is usually very minute and ephemeral. Probably the
                most noteworthy fact in connection with the archegonium is the organization of a
                sheath of  jacket cells about the central cell, which
                through numerous wall pores empty their contents, nuclei and all, into the rapidly
                enlarging central cell, and this material remains conspicuous in the large egg. The
                neck is quite variable in structure, organizing from two cells to several tiers with
                eight cells in each tier. Probably the most common structure is two tiers with four
                cells in each tier. The two-celled neck, so far as recorded, occurs in Cycadales,
                Ginkgoales, Tsuga Canadensis, and Cephalotaxus
                  Fortunei. Tumboa and Gnetum develop no
                archegonia, as would be expected from the nature of their endosperm tissue. In Tumboa the archegonium initials are selected, but no division
                occurs, the egg organizing directly in the initial; while in Gnetum the eggs are as free and naked as in the Angiosperms. The last two
                forms are particularly suggestive in representing the possible method of transition
                from a compact ante-fertilization endosperm to one that consists of free nuclei when
                fertilization occurs, a very characteristic feature of Angiosperms.
            
            
              THE MALE GAMETOPHYTE
              While information concerning the germination of the microspores of Gymnosperms is
                still very much needed, enough has been observed to indicate the general character
                of the gametophyte. In most cases one or two vegetative ("prothallial") cells are
                first cut off. In Cycadales a single such cell is cut off and persists; in
                Ginkgoales and Ephedra two such cells are successively cut off,
                the first being ephemeral; while in Abieteae two cells are cut off, and both are
                ephemeral. In certain forms studied, as Taxus, Juniperus, Cupressus, and Sequoia, no
                evidence of vegetative cells has been obtained. It should be remembered, however,
                that these cells are cut off rapidly and are very ephemeral, so that traces of them
                may be lost quickly, or they may easily escape observation. We venture the opinion,
                therefore, that one or two vegetative cells, more or less evanescent, will be found
                to be of common occurrence among Gymnosperms—cells which are almost unknown
                among Angiosperms.
              The large cell which remains after the cutting off of the vegetative cells we have
                taken to be the morphological equivaleny of the antheridium initial as it appears in
                the heterosporous  Pteridophytes, although we
                recognize the fact that there may be grounds for considering the generative cell as
                the antheridium initial, in which case the structures can not be homologized with
                those of the heterosporous Pteridophytes. This large cell divides unequally, giving
                rise to a sterile tube cell (the larger), which is concerned with the development of
                the pollen tube, and a smaller primary spermatogenous cell or generative cell. The
                spermatogenous series, beginning with the generative cell, seems to be very uniform
                in Gymnosperms, and is longer by one generation than is the series in Angiosperms.
                The generative cell divides and forms the stalk and body cells, the former of which
                functions no further. The body cell divides and organizes the two functional male
                cells, the morphological equivalents of the sperm mother cells of Pteridophytes. If
                the stalk cell, sister of the body cell, should also divide, four male cells would
                result, and the sequence would be that of Isoetes. In the Cycads
                these male cells become ciliated, through the very peculiar activities of
                blepharoplasts, but they should not be regarded as the homologues of the
                multiciliate sperms of Pteridophytes. Whether the ciliated sperm of Ginkgo is the transformed mother cell or not is a matter of doubt, for
                although the details of its formation seem to be identical with those of the
                ciliated male cells of the Cycads, there is evidence that they are organized within
                the mother cells and discharged, in which case they are the morphological
                equivalents of the sperms of Pteridophytes. It is barely possible that there is here
                a transition form between a discharged ciliated sperm and a retained sperm resulting
                in a ciliated mother cell.
              Some meager evidence as to the nature of the male gametophyte of Cordaitales is
                very suggestive. Within the well-preserved pollen grains a mass of tissue has been
                observed, whose nature, whether vegetative or antheridial, it is impossible to
                determine. In either event it indicates a much more primitive male gametophyte than
                has been found in any living Gymnosperm. The testimony from the structure of the
                male gametophyte indicates an origin of Gymnosperms from forms whose gametophytes
                had more complex vegetative tissue than is shown by any living heterosporous
                Pteridophyte.
            
            
            
              FERTILIZATION
              It is now known in Cycadales and Ginkgoales, forms with ciliated male cells or
                sperms, that these cells are not transferred through the pollen tubes. Branching
                tubes penetrate in every direction through the loose nucellar tissue which lies
                between the beak and the embryo sac, and seem to be purely absorptive in function.
                As the nucellar tissue is broken down, the pollen grains containing the body cell
                are brought into close proximity to the archegonia, so that when the ciliated male
                cells or sperms are organized and discharged they are able to reach the necks by
                swimming. As the Cordaitales and Bennettitales show nucellar structures identical
                with those of Cycadales and Ginkgoales, it seems reasonable to suppose that their
                pollen tubes, if any existed, were also rhizoidal in character, and that their
                sperms were ciliated. The conclusion seems to be inevitable that pollen tubes
                appeared primarily as absorbing organs, and that their function as sperm carriers is
                one that should be regarded as secondary.
              In the other groups of Gymnosperms, so far as known, the pollen tube, while
                retaining more or less of its rhizoidal character, is also distinctly a sperm
                carrier, and this function seems to be associated with the development of
                nonciliated male cells. In these cases the whole of the contents of the swollen tip
                of the tube, consisting prominently of the two male cells, tube nucleus, and
                stalk-cell nucleus, has been observed to be discharged into the cytoplasm of the
                egg.
              The development of two male cells seems to be thoroughly established throughout the
                Spermatophytes. In the grouped archegonia of Cupresseae both male cells may
                function, and the same may be true in the case of branching tubes which are sperm
                carriers. In Taxus, however, the inequality of the male cells
                indicates that one of them has long since ceased to be functional.
              The discharge of the contents of the pollen grain or pollen tube is in every case
                closely preceded by the cutting off of the ventral canal cell. Occasionally the
                nucleus of this cell becomes as highly organized as that of the egg, and there is
                reason to believe that in some instances it may be fertilized. The cytoplasm of the
                egg receives the various contents of the grain or tube, but everything remains near
                the periphery of the  cytoplasm except the nucleus of
                the male cell, which advances toward that of the egg and becomes imbedded in it.
                There is some evidence that the fusion of the two nuclei does not involve a fusion
                of their chromatin, and that the male and female chromatin continues to exist as
                separate groups at the first segmentation of the fusion nucleus. How far this may be
                true of Gymnosperms in general it is impossible to say, but in any event it is an
                interesting problem, involving not only a departure from the habit of other known
                plants, but also a resemblance to the phenomena of fertilization observed in certain
                animals, as Ascaris.
              It is perhaps well to call attention to the fact that the cytoplasm of the male
                cell enters the cytoplasm of the egg and fuses with it. The importance of this in
                connection with fertilization is a matter of opinion rather than of demonstration.
                It is certainly true that the nucleus of the male cell of Gymnosperms, and probably
                of all plants, becomes relatively very large, being covered by a thin layer of
                cytoplasm. Whether this cytoplasm is directly necessary to fertilization, or merely
                necessary to the male nucleus preceding fertilization, is a question for the future
                to answer.
            
          
          
            IV. THE EMBRYO
            The germination of the oospore is one of the most characteristic features of
              Gymnosperms, and although the details seem to vary widely there is underneath them all
              a general method which belongs to the group and has been observed in no other. A
              natural series may be arranged, beginning with the Cycadales. In them, germination
              begins with free nuclear division, followed by the placing of the free nuclei in a
              cytoplasmic layer which lines the wall of the oospore and surrounds a central cavity.
              The free nuclei then organize a parietal layer of cells, which are apt to be more or
              less massed at the base of the oospore (towards the main mass of the endosperm), the
              whole of the endosporic tissue being known as the proembryo. These basal cells of the
              proembryo then begin a remarkable elongation, forming the very long and massive
              suspensor, which bears at its tip the group of cells which is to develop into the
              embryo proper. The three regions of the embryo which thus appear are (1) the
              proembryo, an endosporic structure, which relates the embryo to  the nutritive supplies stored up in the egg, (2) a suspensor, which
              develops from the proembryo and relates the embryo to the nutritive supplies of the
              endosperm, and (3) the embryo proper.
            In the case of the Coniferales the same sequence is repeated, except that free
              nuclear division becomes much reduced, usually resulting in but four nuclei, which
              pass to the base of the oospore and organize a definite basal proembryo of three tiers
              of cells, with four cells in each tier. It is interesting to note that in Cephalotaxus Fortunei the free nuclear division is not so restricted, but
              results in eight or sixteen free nuclei, which pass to the base and organize the
              proembryo. The difference between Coniferales and Cycadales, therefore, is that in the
              former the number of free nuclei is restricted, and therefore the formation of a
              proembryonic tissue takes place only in the basal region of the oospore. In both cases
              the suspensor is formed by the elongation of some of the cells of the proembryo, and
              in Coniferales a single plate ("rosette") of cells retains connection with the
              nutritive supplies of the oospore, rather than a parietal layer. Another feature in
              the formation of the proembryo of Coniferales is worthy of note. The first walls
              formed about the nuclei of the primary basal group are not an accompaniment of nuclear
              division, but seem to be formed directly by fibers investing the nuclei, and they do
              not cut off these nuclei from the general cavity of the oospore above. The subsequent
              walls which result in building up the tiers are associated with nuclear division, but
              the uppermost nuclei always remain exposed to the cavity of the oospore, and are
              separated from one another by walls which extend more or less into the mass of the
              oospore.
            In Ephedra free nuclear division also occurs, two to eight such
              nuclei being formed, but they organize as free cells, and do not form a definite
              tissue. As a consequence, the cells act independently, and each one develops a long
              tubular process (suspensor), the bulbous base remaining in touch with the nutritive
              supplies of the spore, and at the tip of each suspensor an embryonic cell is cut off.
              This independence of the cells may be observed also in Pinus, where,
              although there is a regular tier formation of the proembryo, each cell of the
              suspensor set develops a separate suspensor bearing at its tip an embryonic cell.
            
            In Tumboa and Gnetum, free nuclear division,
              which in Ephedra sometimes results in but two nuclei, is abandoned
              entirely, and the whole oospore behaves as do one of the free cells in Ephedra, elongating in suspensor fashion, and cutting off at the tip an
              embryonic cell.
            The case of Ginkgo is a very interesting departure from the
              ordinary sequence. The germination of the oospore begins with free nuclear division,
              but suspensor development is entirely omitted, and as a consequence the oospore is
              filled with a compact tissue which organizes directly into the embryo, and this
              encroaches upon the endosperm by the growth of the whole mass. It is important to note
              that the method of Ginkgo was also that of the Bennettitales, and
              this fact raises the question whether this does not represent the type of embryogeny
              among the primitive Gymnosperms, in which the three embryonic regions of modern
              Gymnosperms have not been differentiated. No evidence as to the embryo of the
              Cordaitales has been obtained, so that the very important testimony which they might
              give is not available. If this be the more primitive type of embryogeny, it would
              follow that the conspicuous suspensor of most living Gymnosperms is a structure of
              secondary origin in the group. However, these two types of embryogeny may not hold any
              definite relation to each other.
            The development of the embryo proper seems to follow no rigid sequence. The first
              division may be transverse or vertical, and the subsequent divisions may be in almost
              any order or direction. Perhaps too much emphasis has been laid upon the sequence of
              events in the earliest stage of the embryo; at least, the data now at hand seem to
              indicate the entire lack of a definite sequence. A study of the organization of the
              growing points of the great body regions, however, should lead to important results,
              but unfortunately the knowledge of Gymnosperms in this regard is too meager to justify
              any definite statement.
            It is evident that polyembryony is natural in the group, and numerous embryos in
              various stages of development are commonly found imbedded in the endosperm, but for
              more than one embryo to come to maturity seems to be a rare phenomenon.
          
        
        
        
          CHAPTER VII
            THE PHYLOGENY OF GYMNOSPERMS
          ANY statement as to the phylogeny of a group must be largely
            hypothetical. The data upon which opinions are based are never sufficient, but such
            opinions serve to coordinate knowledge and to suggest profitable research. Only a small
            fraction of living forms have been studied adequately; while the extinct forms, which
            represent the early history essential to phylogeny, will probably never be known except
            in an uncertain and fragmentary way. In the case of Gymnosperms we have the advantage of
            dealing with a woody group, whose fossil remains may be taken to represent their ancient
            history with unusual completeness. But even in the presence of an abundance of remains,
            the facts of greatest service to morphologists are for the most part inaccessible.
          Before suggesting a possible phylogeny for the group and its various members, it may be
            well to state certain factors which must enter into any consideration of such a subject.
            In the first place, it should be remembered that it is exceedingly improbable that any
            important group of living forms has been derived from another group of living forms.
            Resemblances in structure which are regarded as essential may be pointed out, but this
            is not likely to mean the origin of one group from the other; it may mean that the two
            groups can be traced to one, probably now extinct, which combines the characters now
            differentiated. Most living groups are best regarded as divergent rather than
            consecutive series.
          Another important point is that similar changes in structure may have appeared
            independently in different lines. The response of organisms in their structure to
            environment is deeper seated than we were once inclined to believe, and testimony from
            the similarity of certain structures, when contrary to the  testimony of the majority of other structures, argues feebly for recent community of
            origin. For example, we are compelled to believe that so important a condition as
            heterospory was attained independently by several lines. To put into the same genetic
            group all heterosporous Pteridophytes would be regarded as a morphological absurdity. If
            heterospory appeared independently in several lines, the same conclusion must be reached
            in reference to its natural outcome, the seed, and the polyphyletic origin of the
            Spermatophytes becomes extremely probable. A corollary of the point last mentioned is
            that a living group may not have a common phylogeny with any other living group showing
            similar structures. For example, we are not necessarily restricted to the heterosporous
            Pteridophytes in searching for the ancestral forms of the Gymnosperms, for the latter
            may represent a distinct heterosporous line. While this increases the perplexities of
            phylogeny, it broadens its horizon, and homosporous Pteridophytes may be included in the
            search for the origin of the Gymnosperms.
          What seems to be a conspicuous error in many schemes of phylogeny is the tendency to
            focus attention upon very few structures. It may be that the structures selected are the
            most significant in a general way, but the organism is a plexus of structures and must
            be considered in its totality. Very different structures must have been laid hold of by
            the processes of evolution, and it may not be possible to relate the resulting forms
            properly upon the basis of any one or two structures. With all of these uncertainties in
            mind, we may reach not a clear phylogeny of the Gymnosperms, but a clearer understanding
            of the complexity of the problem and of the uncertainty of conclusions.
          Ever since Hofmeister's classic researches, it has seemed clear that the Gymnosperms
            have been derived from Pteridophyte stock. As this view meets general consent there is
            no need to discuss it. It was also natural for a time to regard Gymnosperms as
            phylogenetically intermediate between Pteridophytes and Angiosperms, for it was not easy
            to believe that such a structure as the seed could have appeared in more than one
            genetic line. It is probably not going too far to say that there is now no serious
            opposition to the view that the Gymnosperm and Angiosperm lines are genetically
            independent. The problem, therefore, has to do with the relation of the  Gymnosperms and the Pteridophytes to one another, and does
            not concern itself in any way with the Angiosperms.
          Assuming the origin of Gymnosperms from Pteridophytes as true, the question is as to
            the monophyletic or polyphyletic origin of the group. Was a single group of archaic
            Gymnosperms derived from Pteridophytes, which subsequently differentiated into distinct
            lines; or have several Gymnosperm lines originated independently from the Pteridophyte
            stock? The great diversities which exist among the living representatives of the group
            suggest a polyphyletic origin; but the numerous important structures in common, and more
            than all the testimony of the great Gymnosperm plexus of the Paleozoic, seem to argue
            far more strongly for a monophyletic origin. The reasons for these views will become
            more clear as the interrelationships of the groups are considered.
          Assuming the monophyletic origin of Gymnosperms, the question is at once suggested as
            to the special group of Pteridophytes which gave rise to them. Curiously enough, each of
            the three living phyla of Pteridophytes has been claimed as having been the source of
            the Gymnosperms. The hypothesis which looks to the Calamodendreae among the Equisetales
            as the ancestral forms has now few if any supporters. A persistent hypothesis, however,
            associates Gymnosperms with the Lycopodiales, through such ancient forms as the
            Sigillarieae, an origin which is claimed for the Coniferales, even when the Cycads are
            acknowledged to be of filicinean origin. A third hypothesis would derive the Gymnosperms
            from the Filicales. As Professor Scott has said:* "These interpretations, whether right or wrong in the particular cases, at
            least indicate the broad fact that important anatomical characters, which we are
            accustomed to associate with Gymnosperms and dicotyledonous Phanerogams, were in
            Paleozoic times common to a large proportion of the vascular cryptogams. Community of
            secondary tissue formation, however, is by itself no proof of affinity, and the problem
            must be attacked on other lines."
          The view which we maintain is that the Cycadales have undoubtedly been derived from the
            Filicales, and that it is impossible to dissociate the other Gymnosperm lines from the
            Cycads. * Studies in Fossil Botany, p.
              513, 1900.
             In the present state of knowledge, it is scarcely
            necessary to recapitulate the arguments which favor a filicinean origin for the Cycads,
            especially since this view seems to meet with general consent.
          Approaching the subject from the historical standpoint, we find that the Filicales
            represent an extremely ancient line, probably the most ancient of the Pteridophyte
            lines, reaching back in history at least into the Silurian. The group is such an ancient
            one that in all of its known history it seems to be entirely independent of the other
            series of Pteridophytes. In the Carboniferous the display of Filicales was an
            extraordinary one. Associated with true Ferns was an almost equally extensive group
            which the paleobotanists have called Cycadofilices. The latter forms so much resembled
            the Ferns in outward aspect that they were originally all included among the Ferns; but
            subsequent study has revealed the fact that their anatomical structure shows a
            remarkable commingling of Fern and Cycad characters. Unfortunately, the sporangia of
            Cycadofilices are unknown, and the group must at present remain of indefinite
            limitation. The main fact, in the present discussion, however, is that a very extensive
            group, showing characters intermediate between Ferns and Cycads, existed during the
            Carboniferous period in connection with undoubted Ferns. From the great antiquity of the
            Filicales, the conclusion seems to be rational that during the great vegetative display
            of the Carboniferous there was a differentiation of the phylum, which gave rise to the
            Cycadofilices, the old Fern stock continuing to display itself in forms which would be
            recognized to-day as members of the Marattiaceae. The first conclusion, therefore, would
            be that the Gymnosperm phylum began with the separation of the Cycadofilices from
            ancient marattiaceous Filicales.
          Associated with the Cycadofilices during the Carboniferous was the great group
            Cordaitales, undoubted Gymnosperms, and related to both Cycads and Ferns in such a way
            as to suggest very definitely an origin similar to that of the Cycads. Whether the
            Cordaitales came directly and independently from the Filicales or not is doubtful, but
            our judgment favors the latter view, since we are inclined to regard the Cycadofilices
            as representing the original indefinite plexus out of which all the Gymnosperm lines
            have been derived.
          
          During the Carboniferous, also, forms appeared which seem to be referable distinctly to
            Ginkgoales, a line which in its beginnings has seemed hard to distinguish from certain
            of the Cordaitales. Ginkgo has always been peculiar in its combination
            of Cycad and Conifer characters, and this may be accounted for by its early origin in
            connection with the Cycadofilices and Cordaitales.
          During the Mesozoic there appeared the Bennettitales and Cycadales, the former making
            much the greater display. It is reasonable to suppose that these two lines were derived
            either independently or together from the Paleozoic Cycadofilices.
          The historic evidence concerning the Coniferales is most indefinite and uncertain. The
            group, as we understand it to-day, is relatively modern, but there is no evidence as to
            the relative ages of the two great lines, Taxaceae and Pinaceae, which compose it. For a
            long time the genus Araucaria has been regarded as the most ancient
            representative of the Conifers, but this idea seems to have arisen from the
            Araucaria-like wood which is so abundant in the Paleozoic, which has proved to belong to
            the Cordaitales. Just which of the Conifer lines is the most ancient remains for future
            investigation to discover; that the line as a whole was an offshoot from the Cordaitales
            seems to us most probable. In fact, the Cordaitales, as ordinarily recognized in the
            Carboniferous, seem to us to be forms well on their way toward the Coniferales.
          
          In reference to Gnetales, there seems to be absolutely no historic evidence, and
            morphology is equally at fault. That the three genera now existing are a fragmentary
            representation of some ancient line seems to be a reasonable conclusion; and the
            characters are related so distinctly to those of other Gymnosperms that it seems hardly
            a question but that the group has the same origin, although one can not venture upon any
            more detailed hypothesis.
          In order to summarize clearly the statements made above, the accompanying diagram is
            introduced, but it must be interpreted in a most general sense.
          
          The origin of both Gymnosperms and Angiosperms is bound up with the evolution of
            heterospory and the seed habit, a statement concerning which is presented in the
            following quotation:* "The evolution of
            heterospory seems simple enough. The physiological differentiation of the spores was
            complete when prothallia became persistently dioecious. This division of labor is to be
            expected in the case of two such distinct functions as the production of antheridia and
            of archegonia. A prothallium producing both sex organs equally well may be regarded as
            in a state of equilibrium, an equilibrium which is disturbed by any conditions which
            favor the production of one sex organ rather than the other, in this case probably
            nutritive conditions. This disturbance of the equilibrium of a bisexual prothallium
            would certainly find expression first in a dioecious tendency, and finally in a
            dioecious habit. With the habit once fixed the morphological differentiation of spores
            becomes inevitable, since the nutritive requirements of the two prothallia are so
            different. The evolution of heterospory seems to be one of the simplest of selective
            processes, with inequalities of nutrition to furnish the variations. From this point of
            view it would seem natural to expect that it may have been derived frequently from
            homospory.
          "The retention of the megaspore, however, does not seem to be so simple a problem. In a
            certain sense it is correlated with the reduction of the gametophyte, since retention
            would not seem practicable until reduction had proceeded far enough to make the
            gametophyte endosporic. Even greater reduction, however, is attained by the male
            gametophyte, but the spore is shed. It should be noted that even in the case of the
            microspore the male gametophyte is usually completely organized before pollination; but
            the fact remains that the reduction does not compel retention.
          "It has seemed to me that this phenomenon is to be explained by the law of progressive
            sterilization. This law certainly finds expression in the megasporangia of heterosporous
            Pteridophytes, in which the sterilization of mother cells is conspicuous. This method of
            increasing the nutrition of the fertile cells is too common a phenomenon to need
            illustration; but it is *COULTER, JOHN M. The Origin of Gymnosperms and the Seed
              Habit. Bot. Gaz. 26: 153-168. 1898.
             a tendency that would seem very consistent with the
            development of megaspores, whose peculiar work holds so definite a relation to abundant
            nutrition. For this very reason high numbers of microspores may be continued, and a
            diminishing number of megaspores produced. This would reach its culmination in the
            production of but a single megaspore by a sporangium, and a proportionate increase in
            the size of the megaspore. With the development of a single spore imbedded in a sterile
            tissue, shedding becomes not only mechanically difficult, but meaningless, since the
            necessity for scattering abroad of gametophytes, to avoid competition, has disappeared.
            It is further true that the development of such a spore involves nutritive supplies from
            numerous neighboring cells, and a certain amount of retention becomes necessary for this
            reason. Still further, the advantage to a single megaspore in being retained, thus
            securing more abundant outside nutrition during germination, would fix the habit if any
            selective process were at work. For these various reasons it would seem evident that
            when the sterilization of a megasporangium had reached its extreme limit, by organizing
            a single spore, retention is likely to follow sooner or later. If this line of reasoning
            be true, the seed habit might have been developed in any heterosporous line."
          Some unpublished results obtained by Miss F. M. Lyon in a study of species of Selaginella are of interest in this connection. The usual condition was
            found in which the one or two fully formed megaspores were retained in the sporangium
            until they germinated. Not only this, but the eggs were fertilized and complete embryos
            formed within the retained megaspores. Fertilization was effected not by the entrance of
            sperms into the sporangium, but by the entrance of microspores, which discharged sperms
            through papillate protuberances. Moreover, the embryos thus formed escaped from the
            megaspores and developed into young plantlets, a strobilus often being covered with
            sprouting plantlets. It should be remarked that such strobili had fallen from the parent
            plant, so that the megaspores had been physiologically separated from the individual
            which produced them, but the permanent retention of the megaspore within the sporangium,
            without interfering with germination, fertilization, or the development and escape of
            the embryo, are facts which contain a morphological suggestion.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER VIII
            GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF GYMNOSPERMS
          ALTHOUGH geographic distribution is not a part of morphology, the
            special student of Gymnosperms should be familiar with the broad outlines of the
            distribution of the living forms. No attempt will be made to trace the historical
            migrations of the different types, or to indicate natural physiographic areas. It is
            sufficient to say in general that there is evidence that most of the forms once had a
            very much more extended range than now, and that the change has consisted chiefly in a
            gradual restriction of the areas occupied.
          
            CYCADALES
            At present the Cycads are strictly tropical forms, the nine genera, containing
              something less than one hundred species, being distributed about equally between the
              oriental and occidental tropics. Cycas, the oldest genus, containing
              about sixteen species, is the most widely distributed oriental genus, ranging
              throughout tropical Asia, the East Indies, and the Australian region; while Macrozamia, with fourteen species, and the monotypic Bowenia, are strictly Australasian; Encephalartos, with
              twelve species, and the monotypic Stangeria, are African.
            In the occidental tropics the largest genus is Zamia, with about
              thirty species, ranging through tropical and subtropical America; Ceratozamia, with six species, and Dioon, with two species,
              are Mexican; while the monotypic Microcycas is Cuban.
            It may be remarked in general that Cycas and Zamia represent the typical Cycads of the two hemispheres, while the other
              genera represent relatively isolated forms which bear the stamp of local
              conditions.
          
          
          
            GINKGOALES
            This phylum, once with a very extensive range, is now represented by a single
              species, which is restricted to China and Japan. It was formerly supposed that even
              this species had long ceased to exist in the wild state, but specimens which seem to
              be undoubtedly wild have been reported from China and Japan.
          
          
            CONIFERALES
            While Cycads are tropical forms, Conifers belong as distinctly to temperate regions,
              forming vast forest areas, especially in the northern hemisphere. A map indicating
              their general distribution would show a heavy north temperate massing, and a lighter
              south temperate massing, the two separated from one another by a broad tropical belt,
              traversed in but two places—namely, the East Indian region and the Andean
              region. These northern and southern masses contain mostly what are regarded as
              different generic types, Pinus dominating at the north, and Podocarpus at the south. Through the East Indian region Podocarpus reaches China and Japan; while the northern genus Libocedrus reaches Australia by the same route, and penetrates far into
              temperate South America by way of the Andes. Aside from these two lines of
              communication, and these two genera, there is no crossing of the tropics, all other
              genera being exclusively northern or southern.
            Before considering the main groups in some detail, it may be well to note a few facts
              of general interest. By far the greatest Conifer display in genera and species is that
              which borders the Pacific Ocean, the chief areas being the China-Japan region, the
              Australasian region, and western North America; while the whole of this vast border
              region is occupied by Libocedrus.
            The most remarkable displays of endemic genera are found in the China-Japan and the
              Australasian regions, the former containing Cephalotaxus (4 spp.),
                Pseudolarix (1 sp.), Keteleeria (2 spp.), Sciadopitys (1 sp.), Cunninghamia (1 sp.), Cryptomeria (1 sp.), Glyptostrobus (2 spp.), Thujopsis (1 3 sp.); while the latter contains Microcachrys (1 sp.), Phyllocladus (3 spp.), Agathis (4 spp.), Arthrotaxis (3 spp.), and 
              Actinostrobus (2 spp.). It will be noted that these restricted
              genera are well distributed among the great groups, and that many of them are
              monotypic. It should be remarked that in the Australasian region are included the
              principal East Indian and Polynesian Islands. Many of these genera are known to have
              had formerly a very extensive range, but why the two regions cited, together
              constituting practically the western coast region of the Pacific, should have proved
              so favorable for the preservation of types otherwise extinct is an interesting
              question.
            The other regions of endemic genera are North America, with Sequoia
              and Taxodium; and South America, with the monotypic Saxogothaea of the mountains of Patagonia.
            Throughout the northern hemisphere the dominant and widely distributed genera are Pinus (70 spp.), Juniperus (30 spp.), Abies (20 spp.), Picea (12 spp.), Cupressus (12 spp.), Larix (8 spp.), and Taxus (8 spp.). There is also a remarkable pairing of western North America
              and eastern Asia in the display of certain genera, those common to both regions,
              besides the genera which extend broadly over both hemispheres, being Torreya, Tsuga, Pseudotsuga, Thuja, Libocedrus, and Chamaecyparis.
            The distribution of forms in the southern hemisphere is modified by the fact that
              temperate conditions occur in three great isolated areas, although this has not
              resulted in as complete a separation of genera as might have been expected. The
              dominant Podocarpus (40 spp.) is the only genus which occurs in all
              three of the south temperate regions; but in the display of certain other genera there
              is a pairing of the continents, the Australasian region always being one member of the
              pair, and, with one exception, South America being the other member. For example, Fitzroya (2 spp.), Libocedrus (8 spp.), Dacrydium (12 spp.), and Araucaria (10 spp.) are common to
              the Australasian region and South America; while Callitris (15 spp.)
              is common to the Australasian region and Africa. The occurrence of Callitris in the Mediterranean region of Africa, however, suggests a
              comparatively recent connection with the Australasian region through the northern
              border region of the Indian Ocean.
            In considering the distribution of the great groups of Conifers one is struck by
              their somewhat rigid geographic limitation,  and by the
              occasional remarkable exceptions. Six apparently natural groups are recognized, and
              each one belongs distinctly to the northern or southern hemispheres. Taxeae, Abieteae,
              Taxodieae, and Cupresseae are distinctly northern types; while Podocarpeae and
              Araucarieae are just as distinctly southern. It is interesting to note that this
              division disregards the great division of Conifers into Taxaceae and Pinaceae.
            While this is the general fact, it is more or less true in the different groups. For
              example, Abieteae are absolutely northern and Araucarieae are absolutely southern, but
              the same sweeping statement can not be made in reference to the other groups.
              Podocarpeae, characteristically southern, are represented in eastern Asia by species
              of Podocarpus. The three remaining northern groups, however, show
              more striking departures from the rule. Taxeae are represented in the Australasian
              region by the endemic genus Phyllocladus; Taxodieae are represented
              in the same region by the endemic genus Arthrotaxis; while
              Cupresseae are represented in the southern hemisphere by the endemic Australasian
              genus Actinostrobus, the Australasia-African genus Callitris, and the Australasia-South American genus Fitzroya. The occurrence of these widely separated genera, on the hypothesis
              that they belong to the same natural group, is an interesting problem.
            From the standpoint of isolated genera, however, the Taxodieae are most interesting,
              for all of the seven genera are very much restricted. Glyptostrobus
              is Chinese, Sciadopitys is Japanese, Cunninghamia
              and Cryptomeria are China-Japanese, Arthrotaxis is
              Australasian, Sequoia is Californian, and Taxodium
              is east North American.
            The facts presented above can be understood only when connected with the ancient
              distribution of the various groups, but unfortunately the history of Conifers is not
              in a condition to supply definite testimony.
          
          
            GNETALES
            Ephedra (30 spp.) occurs in the arid regions of Mediterranean
              Europe and adjacent Asia, as well as of America, in tropical, subtropical, and
              temperate conditions. Gnetum (15 spp.) ranges through the tropics
              of both hemispheres. The  monotypic Tumboa is narrowly restricted to certain extremely arid regions of western
              Africa.
            There is nothing in the geographical distribution of this group to suggest anything
              in common, for the range and conditions are as diverse as are the structures. If they
              are genetically related, they must represent a very ancient and once widely
              distributed phylum, but no sure evidence of its presence has been discovered among
              fossil plants.
          
        
        
        
          SUMMARY OF LITERATURE CITED
          
            ARNOLD, W. Bull. Soc. Imp. Nat. Moscow. 329-341 pls. 2. 1899 (1900). See review in Jour. Roy. Micr. Soc. 1900: 428.
            ARNOLDI, W. Beiträge zur Morphologie der Gymnospermen. III.
              Embryogenie von Cephalotaxus Fortunei. Flora 87:
              46-63. pls. 1-3. 1900. Beiträge zur Morphologie der
              Gymnospermen. IV. Was sind die "Keimbläschen" oder "Hofmeister's-Körperchen" in der
              Eizelle der Abietineen? Flora 87: 194-204. pls.
                6-7. 1900.
            BAILLON, H. Recherches organogéniques sur la Fleur femelle des
              Conifères. Ann. Sci. Nat. IV. 14: 186-199. pls.
                12-13. 1860.
            BECCARI, O. Della organogenia dei fiori feminei del Gnetum Gnemon L. Nuovo Giorn. Bot. Ital. 7: 91-99.
              1877.
            BELAJEFF, W. Zur Lehre von dem Pollenschlauche der
              Gymnospermen. Ber. d. deutsch. bot. Gesell. 9: 280-286. pl. 18. 1891. Zur Lehre von dem Pollenschlauche der Gymnospermen. Ber. d.
              deutsch. bot. Gesell. 11: 196-201. pl. 12.
              1893.
            BLACKMAN, V. H. On the Cytological Features of Fertilization
              and Related Phenomena in Pinus silvestris L. Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc.
                190: 395-426. pls. 12-14. 1898.
            BOWER, F. O. On the Germination and Histology of the Seedlings
              of Welwitschia mirabilis. Quart. Jour. Micr. Sci. 21: 15-30. pls. 3-4. 1881. On the Further Development
              of Welwitschia mirabilis. Quart. Jour. Micr. Sci. 21: 571-594. pls. 22-23. 1881. The Germination and
              Embryology of Gnetum Gnemon. Quart. Jour. Micr. Sci. 22: 278-298. pl. 25. 1882.
            BRAUN, A. 1853.
            BRONGNIART, A. Recherches sur l'Organisation des Tiges des
              Cycadées. Ann. Sci. Nat. I. 16: 389-402. pls.
                20-22. 1829.
            BROWN, ROBERT. Character and Description of
                Kingia, a new Genus of Plants found on the S. W. Coast of New
              Holland, with Observations on the Structure of its Unimpregnated Ovulum and the Female
              Flower in Cycadeae and Coniferae. 1827. Included also in Brown's Miscellaneous
              Botanical Works, Vol. I, 1866.
            
            CARRUTHERS, W. On Gymnospermatous Fruits from the Secondary
              Rocks of Britain. Seemann's Jour. Bot. 5: 1 seq. 1867.
            CASPARY, R. De Abietinearum floris feminei structura
              morphologica. Ann. Sci. Nat. IV. 14: 200-209. 1860.
            ČELAKOVSKÝ, L. Zur Gymnospermie der Coniferen. Flora 62: 257-264, 272-283. 1879. Zur Kritik der Ansichten von der
              Fruchtschuppe der Abietineen. Abhandl. d. königl. böhm. Gesell. d. wiss. VI. 11: 1882. Die Gymnospermen. Abhandl. d. königl. böhm. Gesell.
              wiss. VII. 4: 1-148. 1890. Die Gymnospermen; eine
              Morphologisch-phylogenetische Studie. Abhandl. d. königl. böhm. Gesell. wiss. VIII.
                4: 1890. Nachtrag zu meiner Schrift über die Gymnospermen.
              Engler's Bot. Jahrb. 24: 202-231. 1898. Die Vermehrung der
              Sporangien von Ginkgo biloba L. Oester. bot. Zeitsch. 50: 229-237, 276-283, 337-341. 1900.
            CHAMBERLAIN, C. J. Winter Characters of certain Sporangia. Bot.
              Gaz. 25: 125-128. pl. 11. 1898. Oogenesis in
                Pinus Laricio. Bot. Gaz. 27: 268-280. pls.4-6. 1899.
            COKER, W. C. Observations on the Gametophyte and Embryo of Taxodium distichum. Johns Hopkins Univ. Circ. 19:
              45-46. 1900.
            COSTANTIN and MOROT. Sur l'Origin des
              Faisceaux libéro-ligneux supernuméraires dans la Tige des Cycadées. Bull. Soc. Bot.
              France 32: 173. 1885. See review in Bot. Centralbl. 24: 101-102. 1885.
            COULTER, J. M. Notes on the Fertilization and Embryogeny of
              Conifers. Bot. Gaz. 23: 40-43. pl. 6. 1897.
              The Origin of Gymnosperms and the Seed Habit. Bot. Gaz. 26: 153-168.
              1898.
            DE BARY, A. Comparative Anatomy of the
              Vegetative Organs of the Phanerogams and Ferns. English translation. 1884.
            DICKSON, A. Observations on some Bisexual Cones occurring in
              the Spruce Fir (Abies excelsa). Trans. Edinburgh Bot. Soc. 6: 418-422. 1860.
            DIXON, H. N. Fertilization of Pinus
                silvestris. Ann. Bot. 8: 21-34. pls. 3-5.
              1894.
            EICHLER, A. W. Ueber Welwitschia mirabilis,
              etc. Flora 47: 459-464, 473-479, 489-496, 508-510, 513-520.
              1863. Sind die Coniferen Gymnosperm oder nicht? Flora 54:
              241-247, 260-272. 1873; and later papers. Coniferae in Engler and Prantl's Nat.
              Pflanzenfam. 21: 108. 1889.
            ENGELMANN, G. Morphology of the Carpellary Scales of Coniferae.
              Am. Jour. Sci. III. 12: 469-470. 1876.
            FANKHAUSER, J. Entwickelung des Stengels und Blattes von
              Ginkgo. Bern. 1882.
            
            FUJII, K. On the Different Views hitherto proposed regarding
              the Morphology of the Flowers of Ginkgo biloba. Bot. Mag. Tokyo 10: 15-25, 104-110. pl. 1. 1896. On the
              Morphology of the Spermatozoid of Ginkgo biloba. Bot. Mag. Tokyo 14: 260-266. pl. 7. 1900.
            GOEBEL, K. Outlines of Classification and Special Morphology.
              English translation. 316. 1887. Organography of Plants. English translation.
              153-155. 1900.
            GOROSCHANKIN, J. Zur Kenntniss der Corpuscula bei den
              Gymnospermen. Bot. Zeit. 41: 825-831. pl. 7A.
              1883. Ueber den Befruchtung-Process bei Pinus Pumilio.
              1883.
            HIRASÉ, S. Études sur la Fécondation et l'Embryogénie du Ginkgo biloba. Jour. Coll. Sci. Imp. Univ. Tokyo 8:
              307-322. pls. 31-32. 1895. Études sur la Fécondation et
              l'Embryogénie du Ginkgo biloba. Jour. Coll. Sci. Imp. Univ. Tokyo
                12: 103-149. pls. 7-9. 1898.
            HOFMEISTER, W. Embryobildung der Phanerogamen. Jahrb. f. wiss.
              Bot. 1: 82-188. pls. 7-10. 1858.
              Vergleichende Untersuchungen. English translation. 1862. Lehre der Pflanzenzelle.
              120. 1867.
            HOOKER, J. D. On Welwitschia, a new Genus of Gnetaceae. Trans.
              Linn. Soc. London 24: 1-48. pls. 1-14.
              1863.
            IKENO, S. Das Spermatozoid von Cycas
              revoluta. Bot. Mag. Tokyo 10: 367-368. 1896. Vorläufige
              Mittheilung über die Spermatozoiden bei Cycas revoluta. Bot.
              Centralbl. 69: 1-3. 1897. Untersuchungen über die Entwickelung
              der Geschlechtsorgane und der Vorgang der Befruchtung bei Cycas
                revoluta. Jahrb. f. wiss. Bot. 32: 557-602. pls.
                8-10. 1898.
            JACCARD, P. Le Développement du Pollen de l'Ephedra Helvetica. Archives des sci. Phys. et Nat. III. 30: 280-282. 1893. See review in Beih. zum Bot. Centralbl. 4:
              230. 1894. Recherches embryologiques sur l'Ephedra Helvetica.
              Bull. Soc. Vaudoise des sci. Nat. 30: 46-84. pls.
                3-10. 1894. See review in Bot. Centralbl. 61: 111-113.
              1895.
            JAGER, L. Beiträge zur Kenntniss der Endospermbildung und zur
              Embryologie von Taxus baccata. Flora 86: 241-288.
                pls. 15-19. 1899.
            JURANYI, L. Bau und Entwickelung des Pollens bei Ceratozamia longifolia. Miq. Jahrb. f. wiss. Bot. 8:
              382-400. pls. 31-34. 1872.
            KARSTEN, H. Beiträge zu Entwickelungsgesch. der Gattung Gnetum.
              Bot. Zeit. 50: 205-215, 221-231, 237-246. pls.
              5-6. 1892. Untersuchungen über die Gattung Gnetum. Ann. Jard. Bot.
              Buitenzorg 11: 195-218. pls. 17-19. 1893.
            
            KARSTEN, H. Zur Entwickelungsgesch. der Gattung Gnetum. Cohn's
              Beitr. z. Biol. d. Pflzn. 6: 337-382. pls. 8-11.
              1893.
            LANG, W. H. Studies in the Development and Morphology of
              Cycadean Sporangia. 1. The Microsporangia of Stangeria paradoxa.
              Ann. Bot. 11: 421-438. pl. 22. 1897. Studies
              in the Development and Morphology of Cycadean Sporangia. II. The Ovule of Stangeria paradoxa. Ann. Bot. 14: 281-306. pls.
                17-18. 1900.
            LOTSY, J. P. Contributions to the Life-history of the Genus
              Gnetum. Ann. Jard. Bot. Buitenzorg II. 1: 46-114. pls.
                2-11. 1899.
            METTENIUS, G. H. Beiträge zur Anatomie der Cycadeen. Abhandl.
              d. königl. Sächs. Gesell. d. wiss. 7: 565-608. pls.
                1-5. 1861.
            MIQUEL, F. A. W. Monographia Cycadearum. 1-82. pl.
                8. 1841.
            MOTTIER, D. M. On the Archegonium and Apical Growth of the Stem
              in Tsuga Canadensis and Pinus silvestris. Bot.
              Gaz. 17: 141-143. pl. 8. 1892.
            MURRILL, W. A. The Development of the Archegonium and
              Fertilization in the Hemlock Spruce (Tsuga Canadensis). Ann. Bot.
                14: 583-607. pls. 31-32. 1900.
            OERSTED, A. S. Bidrag til Naaletroeernes Morphologi. Videnskab.
              Meddelelser Nat. Foren. Copenhagen. 1864.
            PARLATORE, F. Studi Organografici sui Fiori e sui Frutti delle
              Conifere. Opuscula botanica. 1864.
            PAX, F. Allgemeine Morphologie der Pflanzen mit besonderer
              Berücksichtigung der Blüthenmorphologie. 1890.
            REINKE, J. Parasitische Anabaena in Wurzeln der Cycadeen. Gött.
              Nachr. 107. 1872.
            SACHS, J. Lehrbuch. 1868.
            SCHLEIDEN, M. J. Sur la Signification Morphologique du
              Placentaire. Ann. Sci. Nat. Bot. II. 12: 373-376. 1839.
            SCHNEIDER, A. Mutualistic Symbiosis of Algae and Bacteria with
                Cycas revoluta. Bot. Gaz. 19: 25-32. pl. 3. 1894.
            SCOTT, D. H. The Anatomical Characters presented by the
              Peduncles of Cycadaceae. Ann. Bot. 11: 399-419. pls.
                20-21. 1897. Studies in Fossil Botany. London. 1900. On the
              Occurrence of a Seedlike Fructification in certain Paleozoic Lycopods. Ann. Bot. 14: 713-717. 1900.
            SEWARD, A. C., and GOWAN, MISS J. The Maiden Hair Tree (Ginkgo biloba L.). Ann. Bot.
                14: 109-154. pls. 8-10. 1900.
            SHAW, W. R. Contribution to the Life-history of Sequoia. Bot.
              Gaz. 21: 332-339. pl. 24. 1896.
            SOKOLOWA, MLLE. C. Naissance de l'Endosperme
              dans le Sac embryonnaire de quelques Gymnospermes. Moscou. 1880.
            SOLMS-LAUBACH, H. Die Sprossfolge der
              Stangeria und der übrigen Cycadeen. Bot. Zeit. 48: 177-187, 193-199,
              209-215, 225-230. pl. 2. 1890.
            
            SOLMS-LAUBACH, H. Ueber die Fructification
              von Bennettites Gibsonianus Carr. Bot. Zeit. 48:
              789-798, 805-815, 821-833, 843-847. pls. 9-10. 1890. Fossil
              Botany. Oxford. 1891.
            STENZEL, G. Beobachtungen an durchwachsenen Fichtenzapfen. Ein
              Beitrag zur Morphologie der Nadelhölzer. Nov. Act. Nat. Cur. 38:
              289-350. pls. 12-15. 1876.
            STRASBURGER, E. Die Befruchtung bei den Coniferen. 1869.
              Die Coniferen und die Gnetaceen. 1872. Die Befruchtung und Zelltheilung. Jen.
              Zeitsch. 2: 435-536. pls. 27-35. 1877.
              Befruchtung und Zelltheilung. 1878. Die Angiospermen und die Gymnospermen.
              1879. Neue Untersuchungen, etc. 1884. Histologische Beiträge 3: 151.
              1891. Ueber das Verhalten des Pollens und die Befruchtungsvorgänge bei den
              Gymnospermen. Hist. Beitr. 4: 1-158. pls. 1-3. 1892.
            TREUB, M. Recherches sur les Cycadées. Ann. Jard. Bot.
              Buitenzorg 2: 32-53. pls. 1-7. 1881 (date of
              reprint, volume date being 1885). Recherches sur les Cycadées. 3. Embryogenie du
                Cycas circinalis. Ann. Jard. Bot. Buitenzorg 4:
              1-11. pls. 1-3. 1884.
            VAN TIEGHEM, PH. Anatomie
              comparée de la Fleur femelle et du Fruit des Cycadées, des Conifères, et des
              Gnetacées. Ann. Sci. Nat. Bot. V. 10: 269-304. pls.
                13-16. 1869. Recherches sur la Symetrie de Structure des Plantes
              vasculaires. Ann. Sci. Nat. V. 13: 1-314. pls.
              3-8. 1870.
            VON MOHL, HUGO. Ueber die
              Männlichen Blüthen der Coniferen. Verm. bot. Schriften 45-61. 1845. (Published as a
              dissertation, 1837.) Ueber den Bau des Cycadeen-Stammes. Abhandl. d. königl. d.
              Acad. zu München 1: 1832. Republished and revised in Vermischte
              Schriften 195-211. 1845. Morphologische Betrachtung der Blätter von Sciadopitys.
              Bot. Zeit. 29: 17-23. 1871.
            WARMING, E. Recherches et Remarques sur les Cycadées.
              Oversigten over d. K. D. Vidensk. Selsk. Forh. 1877. Contributions à l'Histoire
              naturelle des Cycadées. Ibid. 1879.
            WEBBER, H. J. Peculiar Structures occurring in the Pollen Tube
              of Zamia. Bot. Gaz. 23: 453-459. pl. 40.
              1897. The Development of the Antherozoids of Zamia. Bot. Gaz. 24: 16-22. 1897. Notes on the Fecundation of Zamia and the Pollen Tube
              Apparatus of Ginkgo. Bot. Gaz. 24: 225-235. pl.
              10. 1897.
            WIELAND, G. R. A Study of some American Fossil Cycads. Part I.
              The Male Flower of Cycadeoidea. Am. Jour. Sci. IV. 7: 223-226. pls. 2-4. 1899.
            
            WIELAND, G. R. A Study of some American Fossil Cycads. Part
              III. The Female Fructification of Cycadeoidea. Am. Jour. Sci. IV. 7:
              383-391. pls. 8-10. 1899. The Yale Collection of Fossil Cycads.
              Yale Sci. Month. 6: 1-11. pl. 1. 1900.
            WORSDELL, W. C. Anatomy of Stems of Macrozamia compared with
              that of other Genera of Cycadeae. Ann. Bot. 10: 601-620. pls. 27-28. 1896. The Anatomical Structure of Bowenia spectabilis. Ann. Bot. 14: 159-160. 1900. The
              Structure of the Female "Flower" in Coniferae. Ann. Bot. 14: 39-82.
              1900. The Vascular Structure of the Ovule of Cephalotaxus. Ann. Bot. 14: 317-318. 1900. The Affinities of the Mesozoic Fossil, Bennettites Gibsonianus. Ann. Bot. 14: 717-721. 1900.
            WOYCICKI, Z. On Fertilization in Coniferae (in Russian). pp.
              1-57. pls. 2. 1899.
          
          
        
      
    
    
      
      
        APPENDIX
        A PAPER by Mr. W. A. Murrill,* on Tsuga Canadensis, has reached us too late to incorporate
          his results in the body of the text.
        The time which elapses between pollination and fertilization is quite different from that
          we have given for Pinus. Two weeks after pollination the archegonium
          initials become evident, one week later the neck of the archegonium is formed, two weeks
          later the ventral canal cell is cut off, and five days later fertilization occurs. As
          contrasted with Pinus, this period of less than six weeks between
          pollination and fertilization is remarkably short.
        The neck of the archegonium exhibits considerable variation, consisting of one to four
          cells. The ordinary number is two, and the wall between them is usually oblique, although
          it may vary in direction from transverse to longitudinal.
        The author was not able to discover any passage of nuclei from the jacket cells to the
          central cell through wall pores.
        The two male cells are unequal in size, the diameter of the functional one being twice
          that of the other. It would be interesting to know whether this results from an unequal
          division of the body cell, as in Taxus, or from unequal growth.
        The nuclei of both male cell and egg pass into the resting stage before fusion, an
          observation directly at variance with the reported behavior of these nuclei in Pinus.
        *The Development of the Archegonium and
          Fertilization in the Hemlock Spruce (Tsuga Canadensis). Ann. Bot. 14: 583-607. pls. 31-32. December, 1900.
        
        As in Pinus, the chromatin masses of the sex nuclei remain separate
          until segmentation into chromosomes takes place. These chromosomes do not fuse, but mingle
          indiscriminately near the center of the spindle. The evidence is thus accumulating that
          male and female chromosomes may remain distinct, and pass without fusion into succeeding
          cell generations.
        END OF PART I
      
    
  
