
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Davis, Clarkson, 1833-1883.. Poems, papers and addresses of Clarkson and Hannah E. Davis. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2012).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAC0875
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		



			

			
				Frontispiece
				
					
						HANNAH E. DAVIS
					
				
			


			
			
				
					Poems Papers and Addresses
						OF Clarkson and Hannah E. Davis
				

				Publishedin Memoriamby Three of Their Friends

				
					RICHMOND, INDIANA:
					NICHOLSON PRINTING & MFG. CO.
					1898
				
			

			
			
				Epigraph
				May 26, 1883 March 24, 1898
				
						"Do we mourn when another star
						Shines out from the glittering sky?
						Do we weep when the noise of war
						And the rage of conflict die?
						Then why should our tears roll down,
						And our hearts be sorely riven;
						For another gem is in the Savior's crown,
						And another soul in Heaven."
					
				
			
		
		
		
			
				Poems, papers and addresses of Clarkson and Hannah E. Davis
				
					In memoriam MRS. HANNAH E. DAVIS
						UNIVERSITY OF NORTH DAKOTA
					
						OBIT MARCH 24, 1898
						Read Before the Meeting of the Western Association of Writers, June 29, 1898,
							by Benj. S. Parker
						
								Death comes at the blush of dawn
								And empties the cradle nest;
								He comes, when the day is gone,
								And bringeth the weary rest.
							
							
								But when, with the sun on high,
								In the ardent flush of noon,
								He closes the toiler's eye,
								We wail, "He has come too soon."
							
							
								He stilleth the heart of one
								Upon whom the many wait,
								And, lo ! the light of the sun
								Fades out in the fog of fate.
							
							
							
								"Why palsy the hands that bless,
								While sparing the hands that mar?"
								We cry in our grief's excess,
								Where the dew-cold lilies are,
							
							
								The dew-cold lilies of death,
								Where the pallid toilers lie;
								But the Bride and the Spirit saith,
								"They live and they shall not die."
							
							
								Low lain in her lowly bed,
								She sleepeth and will not wake;
								And the sable book of the dead
								Is opened for her sake.
							
							
								They have traced therein her name,
								But the living letters glow
								Like a holy altar flame,
								And the Spirit saith, "Not so!"
							
							
								"Not thus, with the sleeping dust,
								Doth the soul go down to death;
								The life of the true and just
								Is not blown out with a breath."
							
							
								Let another fill her place,
								Another her burdens bear;
								She has found the heart of grace
								And lovingly nestled there.
							
							
								Mourn not that her sweetest song
								On the earth was never sung;
								In heaven the days are long,
								And song hath a truer tongue.
							
							
							
								In heaven the days are long,
								And thoughts and emotions move
								A swift, melodious throng,
								To the altitudes of love—
							
							
								Love, the evoker of life—
								And there in the midst they stand;
								They, who were husband and wife,
								Confidingly, hand in hand.
							
					
					
						
						A Paper, Read at the Memorial Services, March 27, 1898,
							by Mattie E. S. Charles
						Hannah E. Brown, only child of Benjamin and Naomi Taylor Brown, was born near
							Richmond, Indiana, November 5th, 1841, and died at Grand Forks, North Dakota, March
							24, 1898, aged fifty-six years, four months and eleven days. An elder half-brother and
							sister are the only near relatives to mourn her death.
						Her early girlhood was spent in the home until she entered what was then Friends'
							Boarding School, now Earlham College, at the age of fifteen, where she remained for
							some years. She was married to Clarkson Davis September I, 1862. In 1863 she began her
							work in Spiceland Academy, in connection with her husband. Her connection with the
							academy covered a period of twenty-eight years, with two or three short intervals of
							absence: Once in 1867, while her husband was traveling in Europe, and again in the
							winter of  1882-83, when she accompanied him South, in the
							hope that a change of climate might benefit his health. In 1886 Hannah Davis spent
							several months in Italy, but upon her return resumed her work in the academy, and
							remained in the school until the close of the school year of 1891. While here she gave
							to her work her best efforts. Her strong personality went out to her pupils, and
							seemed to occupy a large part of every life she entered. It was her aim to convince
							the young people who came under her influence, that there are greater possibilities
							before them, nobler fields of endeavor, higher attitudes and wider horizons than they
							have been able to conceive of heretofore. And her pupils always felt that she expected
							the best of them; and to her larger thought and clearer vision do many of her former
							pupils owe the measure of success they have attained.
						During the summer of 1890 she, in company with Mrs. Finley and Miss Florence Cronise,
							spent some months in Germany studying the German language and the history of the
							country. Her last trip abroad was in the summer vacation of 1895. She wrote back while
							there, saying, "I am studying the haunts of Scott, especially the land of the 'Lady of
							the Lake,' in Scotland, and in England the haunts of the Lake poets."
						After leaving here, Hannah Davis entered Ann Arbor University and took a two years'
							course in literature, drawing and structural botany. She accepted a position in the
							University of North Dakota, and began her work in the autumn of 1892, and remained
							there until the close of her life. Her work, while in the 
							university, was very arduous, but was of such a character as to gain for her a wide
							reputation as an educator. In addition to her work as a professor, she had charge of
							the girls' dormitory, really doing the work assigned for two persons, for more than
							five years. During the summer of 1896 she studied literature and rhetoric, under Dr.
							Abbott, at Harvard.
						Hannah Davis was a valued member of the Western Writers' Association, and her
							contributions to the press are of lasting value. One of her latest articles, entitled,
							"What Israel Has Done," is characteristic of the writer. Knowing the estimation in
							which this nation is held by many people, she made a special study of their history,
							and set forth in this article all that is good and noble in the race. Hannah Davis
							knew how to be a friend, with all that the word implies. In no one thing was her
							character more marked than by her lavish expenditure of time and strength for her
							friends. This was illustrated in one of the last acts of her life, that of
							accompanying Mrs. Estes, with the remains of Professor Estes, from the University to
							New Castle, just two weeks ago to-day, while she was far from well. But she took no
							thought for herself, and exemplified in her life a remark she once made in regard to
							Christ. She said: "In the study of the 'Life of Christ,' we are all the time
							impressed with the fact that He saved others, Himself he could not save, and that men,
							if they would save others, must sacrifice themselves likewise." Her aesthetic taste
							was cultivated in many directions--by her college education, by books, travel, museums
							of art, and contact with cultivated people in many lands. These opportunities,  given to a naturally bright and strongly intellectual
							nature, produced a woman that could be nothing less than a blessing to humanity. 
									"Hail and farewell! yet not farewell,
									For whether here or whether there,
									Thy spirit forces marshal well,
									And heaven has all thy work in care."
								
						
					
					
						A Paper Read Before the Western Association of Writers, at Winona Indiana, June 29,
							1898, by Prof. D. W. Dennis
						Mrs. Hannah E. Davis was born of Quaker parentage, on a farm near Richmond,
							Indiana, November 5, I841. A photograph of her childhood home, recently made, shows
							the practical and the poetical—the utile dulci of Horace—that must have been
							characteristic of her parents. The substantial, plain brick house, set in willows,
							evergreen, and native forest trees, makes as fine a picture as one could meet.
						
								"Of art and nature met in truce,
								Of beauty made the bride of use."
							
						Some things are gone from us forever, of which we can only have the report. We cannot
							now know the full charm of the conversational powers of Coleridge, 
							
								HANNAH E. DAVIS, 1862
							
							
							 for no Boswell followed him to listen, and the great good
							witnesses of his powers only give to us the transcendent impressions which he made on
							every one. The charm of Mrs. Davis' girlhood is alike lost to us, but no one who knew
							her, in the fifties and the early sixties, neglects to speak of her busy, happy,
							outgiving life. It was as unfeigned as the nature amid which she grew and every
							expression of which she loved devoutly. She called her father's sheep by name—
							named them herself—and any one might have guessed that she would, in later life,
							teach both biology and literature, from the fact that she called her two special pet
							lambs George Alfred Demosthenes and Charles Albert Cicero.
						The inventory of her life is easily made out: A child of stream and forest and meadow
							for fifteen years, a student of Earlham College for four years, a teacher in Spiceland
							Academy for twenty-eight years, a traveler who visited Europe three times, and many
							parts of her own country times without number; a student again at Ann Arbor and
							Harvard, and, finally, for five years a teacher at the University of North Dakota. But
							what assessor can list the values of a devoted life— a gifted teacher, an
							inspiring friend, an accomplished, home-loving wife.
						The characteristic of Mrs. Davis, that escaped no one, was her love of nature. She
							looked at once with the eye of science, of the poet and the worshiper. I happened to
							be at Ann Arbor when Mrs. Davis was finishing her studies there; she had been assigned
							thesis work on one of the orchids. Professor Spaulding brought out her papers and
							sketches, and pointed  with satisfaction to an important
							observation made by Mrs. Davis, which, he said, had escaped Darwin himself. She did
							not stop with the classification, environment, life history, habitat and adaptations
							of plants; she made them her companions in her home. In one of the last letters
							written by her she incloses some photographs of her room, one of which I am permitted
							to submit herewith, with the remark: "My wealth of white Roman hyncinths and
							narcissus has passed away, but I have a few other bulbs coining on, which, I hope,
							will be fine; these are hyacinths (double, large), tulips, crocuses, and two
							freesias, I think. My blooming plants now are two begonias, a few scattering white
							hyacinths, and a sort of touch-me-not that has borne flowers for four or five months.
							These blossoms are the size of a quarter, and rose red, very pretty."
						What I mean to say is, Mrs. Davis' chief love was great and worthy; it looks toward
							the best; Mrs. Davis coupled it with the highest. In one of her letters from Naples
							it is a question which most to admire, her manifest interest in man, as it is
							detailed in a visit with Frederick Douglass and the Rev. Henry M. Field to a Y. M. C.
							A. meeting in the city, or her warm-toned description of a journey to Misenum by the
							tomb of Virgil, Jupiter Serapes, Monte Novo, the amphitheater, avarnus and the
							styx.
						Nature has never failed one of her devotees. The wild son of her American forests has
							listened to her  instruction and become wise. Longfellow
							prettily gives the source of his learning: 
									"In the birds' nests of the forest,
									In the lodges of the beaver,
									In the eyrie of the eagle;
									All the wild fowl sang them to him
									In the moorlands and the fenlands,
									In the melaficholy marshes."
								
							
						
						To Teufelsdroeck she taught the sublimer strains of which he was capable, so that he
							could call her the living garment of God, and question, "Is it then, indeed, he that
							ever lives in Thee, that ever loves in Thee? The universe is not dead and demoniacal,
							a charnal house with specters, but Godlike and my Father's."If 
								
									"He prayeth best who loveth most,
									All things both great and small,"
								
							 Few of all who have ever lived have prayed better than Mrs. Davis.
						To her love of nature Mrs. Davis added the love of her profession; and this, also,
							has been characteristic of the greatest. Pestalozzi says that on an Alpine height in
							Switzerland he thought not of the mountains about and above him, but of the poorly
							taught people in the valley below him; and when asked, on his return from Paris, if he
							had seen Napoleon, he is said to have responded, "No, and neither did Napoleon see
							me." When those whom they had instructed met in 1870, all men saw Napoleon had missed
							the most. The earth, crowned and uncrowned, needs to look at the man who is sure of
							his calling. A leading paper in Minneapolis, a few weeks before the death of Mrs.
							Davis, gave her  the credit of breaking down, for the
							Northwest, the prejudice against co-education, and wisely inaugurating it on a basis
							that could not fail.
						Discriminating in her praise, as every one knew her to be, it was the proudest
							achievement of any student to receive it. Her patience approached the infinite for the
							student who tried his best, but found it hard to succeed; but she never sought to
							conceal her displeasure for the student who could, but would not. These qualities
							secured for her a host of warm friends, and, as candor everywhere does, the respect of
							those who did not deserve and could not get her friendship and love; probably no one
							ever died more universally respected. Her home, enriched by the best from all lands,
							was open to her students, and what many of them remember best is the unstudied
							hospitality which put every one at ease who visited her. However it may be in other
							professions, it is the whole man that constitutes the teacher. It is character that is
							indestructible, unforgetable, and thousands who could not to-day classify a flower
							or define a stamen are journeying through life with a sweetness and light which they
							never could have had if they never had met her. The best theology of to-day looks in
							the direction of the fixity of character; it is well expressed in the lines: 
									"Think ye the notes of holy song,
									On Milton's tuneful ears have died?
									Think ye that Raphael's angel throng
									Has vanished from his side?"
								
						How pleasant for all Mrs. Davis' friends to believe this, and to see her in her final
							home in the midst of the loveliest that we know.
					

					

					
						Careful Preparation
						Mrs. Davis prepared herself for her varied life duties with a faithfulness which
							alone has led to the highest and best. She never regarded this preparation as
							complete. In estimating her value as a teacher, one must remember she grew to the
							last. Her last summer was spent in the Ann Arbor summer school. She entered the
							university for post-graduate work at fifty. She hardly could have joined in Gœthe's
							famous prayer: 
							
									"O, give me back the times again
									When conscious growing strength was mine."
								
						
						It is of inestimable value that the young, growing, ambitious, hopeful youth should
							be led by growing spirits. It may be interesting for us to note how a few of the great
							have prepared themselves to become so: Joshua served an apprenticeship of
							thirty-seven years, Elisha of ten; Jesus of Nazareth was thirty years getting ready
							for a service of three years; Paul saw Gamliel as well as the light on the way to
							Damascus; Philip learned war and government in the camps and courts of Epaminondas;
							Alexander, to conquer the world in the school of Aristotle; Egbert, who wielded the
							heptarchy into the monarchy that encircles the earth with its martial strains, spent
							thirteen years under Charlemagne; the discoverer of the water route to India, the
							result of which was to make "The bucentaur lie rotting unrestored," was a pupil
							of the naval school of Prince Henry at Sagrez. Mozart learned music of his father, and
							such was his appreciation of the value of his instruction  that he said: "Next to God is my father." Raphael studied with Perugino, who was
							the greatest master of the Umbrian school, itself the successor of the Sienese, which
							was, in its turn, transplanted from the Byzantine. led to great deeds. Agassiz learned
							of Cuvier, and Jordan of Agassiz; Garfield of Mark Hopkins, and Grant of Taylor and
							Scott. And to come down to date, a half century of faithful study and discharge of
							duty led to Manila bay. Now, Mrs. Davis shrank from nothing that would fit her better
							for her labors. For her students and friends she traveled and studied, and at last
							died. "For their sake I sanctify myself," was her keyword every day, and in the full
							hundredfold she returned to her friends the riches she seemed to lavish on herself.
							The tree that makes the largest demand upon soil, air, light and water, yields back
							the richest and most abundant fruit; the longest, most refreshing shadow; the
							strongest mast to man for his ship, or beam for his home. The unselfish man is not the
							one who hastily gives himself to the world, but the one who first makes himself worth
							giving away.
						Mrs. Davis was patriotic; all her trips to Europe left her American still. Writing
							from Naples, she expresses the regret that she had not seen the flag since she left
							home. She and a few other Americans were quarantined at Naples all day on
							Thanksgiving, 1886; while the turkey, which friends in the city had prepared for them,
							was getting cold, they gave wings to time by singing "The Star Spangled Banner," 
							"Home, Sweet Home," "Yankee Doodle," "Dixie," and "John Brown." 

						

						Last winter Mrs. Davis wrote to a friend: "I do not think any other person in the
							world has been quite so fortunate in having such friends as I—the dearest, best
							in the world." She showed herself friendly; the first word of all who are fortunate
							enough to have a right to speak on the subject is, "She was a friend true as steel."
							She was generous, unselfish; almost the last act of her life was a journey of a
							thousand miles and back to accompany her friend, Mrs. Estes, from Grand Forks to New
							Castle, with the remains of her husband, Professor Estes. She was more than kind to
							the aged, she was thoughtful of them.
						The thousand and one little things that mean so much to women, busy them, make them
							happy when cares and duties relax, marked Mrs. Davis a woman first of all. She wrote,
							last Christmas, to a friend: "Won't you write and tell me all about your dear self,
							what you received, what you did, what new dresses you have, bonnets, etc."Then
							follows an inventory of her own; a sample of her new dress is inclosed, and a wrap is
							described as "having martin bands on the edge of a Russian riding cloak that came to
							her feet." Some members of the faculty had just held a reception in the dormitory, and
							she adds: "We have our own dining-room, you know, and our own china, and the table
							did look beautiful." Her letters sustain the best things that have been said of her,
							or that can be. They discuss with a keen interest every question— domestic,
							social, religious, political—that touched the lives of herself and hers. In one,
							she gives a friend the most detailed assistance in the matter of school management. It
							is a treatise that must have  taxed her several hours of
							needed rest. Another, written on the 28th of last July, is from the summer school at
							Ann Arbor, and is a summary of two lectures, given by Professor Knowlton, on "The
							Criminal Jurisprudence of the Jews" and "Was the Crucifixion of Christ Legal?"
							Hundreds of pages of her private letters, from many parts of the world, have been
							loaned to me, and they all show the same wish, to carry to her friends, at whatever
							cost to herself, the best of all she was permitted to learn or enjoy; stories told by
							the learned people with whom she met are written out for her friends, the choicest
							bits from the latest book she has read, an account of the last kindness she has
							received. In all, not a syllable of gossip. A leaf sent to her from her sister reminds
							her that she got the plant near Naples, and showed it to Frederick Douglass, who was
							sitting on a beach, with the Mediterranean on his left and Vesuvius on his right; all
							three, she observes, "the one thing of its kind."
					
					
						Her Religion
						Mrs. Davis had that catholicity in religion which belongs to real culture wherever it
							is found. In one of her published letters from Naples she describes what she saw at a
							wayside shrine, and adds: "We all, at times, seek for help from a higher than we."
						Wherever, on land or sea, she could hear the gospel (perhaps I should say the truth),
							she was there. She observes, in one of her letters from abroad, that sorrow does not
							need translation, and, wherever she went, the sorrowing learned that sympathy does
							not.


						

						It has been more the mistake of the past than it is of the present to suppose that
							the religious must be ceremonial. The preacher properly seeks the restoration of the
							purity of Eden, but he should not forget, we should not forget that the restoration of
							the comfort and convenience of Eden are also necessary, and so the business man, the
							inventor, the mechanic are needed. We must have the health of Eden again, and so
							Pasteur and Lister and Koch are also servants of Eden's Lord. The beauty of Eden must
							also be restored; Mrs. Davis has helped in this, and if we consider the new furnishing
							forth of the mind, we may claim for her some high place in the forces that make for
							righteousness. It was a morning late in March last that a thousand of Mrs. Davis's old
							neighbors gathered at Spiceland in the church, where she had been so useful for so
							long, and comforted each other in a mutual sorrow and loss the best they could. Her
							body was laid by that of her gifted husband, Clarkson Davis, principal until his death
							of the academy, in his day easily the premier of Indiana teachers, on whose plain
							granite monument she had put the simple inscription, "Vivit"—so
							characteristic of her, in every way; at once a record of her faith in God and her
							witness to the great worth of her husband. We left her there, as all of us must one
							day be left; and as the best thing we could do, we covered her grave with flowers and
							tears. 
					
				

				
				
				
					Miscellaneous Poems
						OF HANNAH E. DAVIS
					
						A FAIRY ISLAND
						
							'Neath no tropic skies it lay,
							O'er it hung no full orbed day,
							Breathed on it nor rose nor bay.
						
						
							At its feet no blue waves beat,
							With a rhythm soft and sweet,
							Where the land and waters greet.
						
						
							Snowy shell ne'er decked its sand,
							Never coral reached its strand,
							Sea-weed gay, a girdling band.
						
						
							O'er it grew no lofty palm,
							Breathed upon by air of balm,
							In the tropics golden calm.
						
						
							One loved maple bathed its feet
							In the waters pure and sweet,
							In that quiet, cool retreat.
						
						
							On the gnarled roots mosses grew,
							Fanned by winds and fed by dew,
							And the wild birds only knew
						


						

						
							How the stars looked down to smile
							In the waters by the isle,
							How leaves whispered all the while,
						
						
							How they flecked with light and shade,
							As the winds lithe boughs swayed,
							And the sunshine with them played.
						
						
							Twining vines a carpet spread,
							Flowers fair their perfume shed
							Feathery ferns bowed low their head.
						
						
							And the wild birds' voices clear,
							On the breezes floated near,
							As if paradise were here.
						
					

					
						DANCING ROBERT
						Written during the Winter of 1882-83, While in Florida
						
							Sitting by the open window,
							Through which balmy breezes blow,
							Thinking of the friends behind me,
							In the land of ice and snow;
						
						
							Dreamily I watched the ivy,
							Swaying slow, in lines of grace,
							Down the vine-draped veranda,
							When a childish form and face,
						


						
						
							DANCING ROBERT
						


						
						

						
							Brown as nuts in late October,
							Spoke as only childhood can:
							"If you wants a little danceh,
							I'm yo' man, I'm yo' man."
						
						
							Little Robert, dancing Robert,
							Light of heart, but dark of skin,
							Will the golden future keep you
							Free from care and free from sin?
						
						
							Little Robert, dancing Robert,
							In your manly form and face
							Do we see the dawning statesman,
							Who will forward lead his race?
						
						
							Will your shoulders, strong and sturdy,
							In the coming years of strife,
							Bear their burden, brave and manful,
							Till the battle ends—or life?
						
						
							When the helpless need a helper,
							Ever in the foremost van,
							Aiding right and crushing error,
							Will your voice cry, "I 'm yo' man?'
						
						
							Little Robert, dancing Robert,
							In my heart, as on the floor,
							Falls your footstep and your prattle,
							And will fall forever more.
						
					

					

					
						ST. JOHN'S RIVER, FLORIDA
						
							Oh! broad flowing river, what Titans give birth
							To thy fountains of waters so grandly poured forth?
							From thy wide-spreading borders,where, Druids of eld,
							The moss-bearded forests, their vigils have held,
							Thy waters glance sunward, or dimple in shade,
							While over their breast, like a Damascene blade,
							A broad jeweled sceptre of sunbeams is laid.
							There is cloud-land above thee, and cloud-land below;
							Rare gleams, as of sunsets, no mortal may know.
							White wings cut the azure; white wings fan thy breast—
							The sea-bird's broad pinion, the sail's snowy crest.
							And never, in Hesperides' gardens of old,
							Grew apples to rival the fruitage of gold
							That gleams on thy banks, from the dark orange groves
							That crowd thy savannahs and circle thy coves.
							No marvel, the Spaniard, with hope that grew pain,
							Sought here, the restorer of Youth to obtain.
							Or, eager for gold, toiled on to explore
							Thy vine-tangled forests and far-reaching shore.
							Here, France brought her lilies to set with thy pine;
							Her olive and fig tree, her citron and vine;
							To rear, 'neath thy forests, an altar as free
							As the breath of the morning, borne up from the sea.
						
						
							Ah ! black are the secrets thy dark waters keep,
							May oblivion hide them forever as deep;
							We turn from their horror of darkness to thee,
							To the flash of thy waves as they sweep to the sea;
							To thy mists, that as incense each morning arise;
							To the blue of thy waters, the blue of thy skies.
							And the wish of my heart surges upward and strong,
							May thy waves flow forever, Oh ! mighty St. John.
						
					


					

					
						THE WOOD-THRUSH
							Published in the Woman's Journal
				
						
							From out the forest depths,
							Clear, sweet and strong,
							Floats on the evening wind,
							Shy bird, thy flute-like song.
						
						
							What is it thou wouldst tell?
							No secret woe nor wrong
							Tinges, with its sad chords, the silvery swell
							And liquid rush of thy melodious song.
						
						
							Nor is it rapturous joy,
							A meaningless delirium of sound;
							The riotous license of a spirit fair,
							Knowing no check nor bound.
						
						
							In my lone forest walk,
							Hidden away from sight and sound of men,
							I've heard the tinkling of a waterfall
							That leaped and sang, then lost itself again.
						
						
							To the same key your voices wild attune,
							Pure, unimpassioned, free;
							No faint refrain of sorrow, hope, desire;
							Simply the dryad's joy—to be.
						
						
							No human heart is yours;
							The passions wild that o'er it steal—
							Eternal longings, sorrow and remorse—
							Ye neither know nor feel.
						


						

						
							Nor are its joys your joys,
							Infinite answerings to the soul's desires;
							Yet not unequal are ye, after all—
							Each has the fullness that its need requires.
						
						
							Sing on, shy bird and tinkling waterfall;
							From bounteous Nature's heart
							Hymnals of praise perpetually arise,
							And in them you have part.
						
					
					
						HIDDEN
						
							Over the prairie, far and wide,
							Stretches a mantle of glist'ning snow;
							Who would dream, in the frost and chill,
							Living things were concealed below?
						
						
							Winding along the river's side,
							With bare, brown branches, the woods are seen;
							Who would divine Spring's miracle
							Could clothe them all in garments green?
						
						
							Stiff and stark in its coffin bed,
							Pulseless and white the river lies;
							Again with life its waters teem,
							Its waves again flash back the skies.
						
						
							What, then, is death, and what is life?
							And what are the mysteries they conceal?
							We wait the Spring, 't will come ere long,
							Then all things hidden it will reveal.
						
					


					

					
						TO FREDERICK DOUGLASS
							ON HIS SEVENTIETH BIRTHDAY, WHILE IN EGYPT
						
							Thy native sky, my honored friend,
							Bends not o'er thee this natal day:
							Ocean and continent divide
							True friends that would their homage pay;
						
						
							But he, to highest manhood true,
							Finds, tho' he rove from pole to pole,
							In every realm, in every clime,
							Kindred beloved in heart and soul.
						
						
							And thou, who wore the bondman's chain,
							To-day, erect and proudly free,
							Grandly compassionate thou stands,
							Beacon of hope, for what may be!
						
						
							Eyes which the tyrant could not blind,
							Hands breaking from their fetters' thrall,
							Souls groping out of mists to God,
							Take heart from thee, and strength for all.
						
						
							Around thee Egypt's tawny sands
							Stretch their long weary lengths away;
							Before thee, desolately grand,
							Her Pyramids and temples lay.
						
						
							The Sphinx, from her entombing sands,
							With solemn brow and questioning face,
							Seeks the deep myst'ry to resolve—
							The strange, sad riddle of the race.
						


						

						
							But what the Sibyl cannot read,
							Thy love of man and trust makes plain:
							The oppressor in dust shall sit,
							And freedom o'er the earth shall reign;
						
						
							And Egypt, from her crucial fires,
							A Phoenix rise to life again!
							Her future's Memnon chants the day,
							And thy great heart responds, Amen!
						
					

					
						THE SEA GULLS
						
							Birds of the sea and air,
							From each abysm
							You startle silence with your strange, wild cry;
							In circling flight, your white wings cleave the sky.
						
						
							With reverend eye, I watch
							Your snowy forms;
							Breasting the gale or sinking down to rest,
							Rocked to repose on ocean's heaving breast.
						
						
							Pilgrims are you and I,
							Pathless our way.
							Behind, encircling mists; before, no ray
							Shows, with its friendly beam, to each his way.
						
						
							Yet he who stoops to note
							The sparrow's fall,
							For you and me will surely do no less;
							Safe we may trust in Him to guide and bless.
						
					

					
					
						ON THE DEATH OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN
						
							But yesterday a burst of joy
							Thrilled through the nation's breast—
							From Allegheny's mountain peaks
							To the Rockies, in the West.
						
						
							We thought the nest would soon be filled;
							Our dove of peace had left;
							We heard the rustling of its wings,
							And saw the white gleam of its breast;
						
						
							And from a thousand hearts burst forth
							A long and earnest cry:
							"Glory and thanks unto the Lord,
							Whence cometh victory!"
						
						
							Another day, and o'er the land
							A wail of sorrow swept,
							More bitter than that bitter cry
							When Egypt's first-born slept.
						
						
							A nation weeps, and well it may
							Strew tears upon the sod;
							One of the noblest of his race
							Is gathered home to God.
						
						
							No sickness, with its deadly chill,
							Fell like a with'ring blight
							On his heaven-directed path,
							To crush him in its might.
						


						
						
							God's angel-reaper, in his walk
							Through all the sunny land,
							Touched him not with his glit'ring scythe—
							The grain, tho' ripe, may stand.
						
						
							Angels of God, in your bright home,
							O, can you ever know
							The wickedness that fills this world
							With all this guilt and woe?
						
						
							Weep, if ye can, for that lost soul—
							A mark whose brow will wear
							More fearful than the one
							Cain said, "My God, I cannot bear."
						
						
							O, God, our hopes are swept away!
							O, wilt thou nearer come?
							Unveil Thy face from shrouding clouds,
							And guide us safely home.
						
						
							Then hang the black beside the blue,
							A-shroud our starry banner;
							Who, who may know the bitter woe
							When a nation mourns a father?
						
					


					

					
						LINES WRITTEN ON THE EVE OF HER MARRIAGE
						
							I am sitting in the gloaming,
							And the stars in silence come,
							And through the leaves their tapers
							Are gleaming one by one.
						
						
							Deep silence settles around me,
							The world is all at rest;
							But with wild, tumultuous rushing,
							Thoughts surge within my breast.
						
						
							The past, with all its memories,
							The future's hopes and fears,
							Touch the secret fount of feeling
							Too deep for calm of tears.
						
						
							How far away life's morning!
							If we distance its brief day
							By the young lives dropped beside us,
							As milestones on the way.
						
						
							The joys, the cares and the sorrows,
							Life's blending sun and shade,
							The home love so strong and tender,
							That ever shelter made.
						
						
							I am standing on the threshold
							Of a future all untried,
							For my chosen lover claims me
							His own beloved bride.
						


						

						
							And my thought, in its wild rushing,
							Stands still while at the door.
							Will the new love be as tender,
							As strong as that of yore?
						
						
							Will the rainbow colors linger,
							That paint the future fair?
							Or will clouds and tempests gather
							To dim the lustre there?
						
						
							I can not know all my pathway;
							But thou, heavenly guide,
							Be it smooth, or rough and thorny,
							Wilt thou walk close beside?
						
					
					
						THE NEAPOLITAN VIOLET
						Greetings from beyond the sea,
						Sun-skies child, I bring to thee.
						With thy modest face and mien,
						Hidden 'neath thy bower of green,
						Whence the color on thy cheek,
						Whence thy fragrance, faint and sweet,
						Incense at thy lover's feet?
						In the bosom of the earth,
						Was the soil that gave thee birth
						Purified, by crucial fires,
						Of all coarse and vain desires?
						Bluer than its amethyst,
						Purpler than its haze and mist,
						Thou embodiest every grace
						Of thy lovely clime and race.
					


					

					
						THE LAST NIGHT OF THE GIRONDISTS
						
							The oaken tables groaned beneath the sumptuous feast outspread,
							And gorgeous tapers over all a glittering radiance shed,
							And flowers were there as gladly bright as if the free, pure air,
							From o'er the Seine's far winding paths, had breathed upon them there;
							And noble forms are 'round the board, and bright the wine cups flash—
							Bethink you of some feudal hall and of the broad swords' clash?
							The merry laugh is echoing there, the song, and all is glee;
							But wherefore are those brows so white? Look! Tell me, if you see,
							What is it!—you saw at first only the banquet spread,
							Ye did not see how fetters lay beside each lowly bed;
							Ye viewed the stately columns rise, but looked not on the walls,
							Or at those windows, iron barred, where sunlight never falls;
							'Tis strange to see a festal board within a dungeon's gloom,
							To hear with merry song and jest the prisoner meet his doom.
						
						
							But thro' the summer long, while vale and hill
							Were fragrant with the wild flowers blooming there,
							Upon their prison couches they had dreamed
							Of all those home scenes, beautiful and fair. 

							

							Then, wonder ye, that death as friend was greeted?
							It is not hard to die
							When all the hopes we cherish, all we love,
							Are lost to us for aye.
						
						
							The trial, with its mockery of justice, had been passed;
							This was their funeral feast, this night their last;
							And it were brave in men like them to die
							With song exultant burstiug to the sky.
							But, think ye, that they looked not o'er the tide
							Of death's dark waters to the farther side?
							Yes, some there were who saw a wounded hand
							Stretched forth in mercy from that wondrous land;
							But it is not long they wait, the doors swing wide,
							The soldiers enter, and they, side by side,
							File through the halls, in stern and calm array,
							Out to the sunlight and pure air of day.
							The tolling tocsin greets them with its dirge,
							And the long lines of lances round them surge;
							The guillotine appears in fearful show;
							The sky is fair, but all is dark below.
							But listen to that song ! The doomed ones sing,
							In one exultant voice, "The Marseillaise Hymn!"
							And thus each captive, with his latest breath,
							Sings from his throne of triumph and of death;
							And thus, till all are gone save Vergniaud,
							Who in his vales a thousand voices laud,
							He treads the steps which each successive trod,
							But few save him with soul turned to his God.
							He paused and gazed far o'er that living sea,
							And thanked the father for the years to be,
							When his own France, no tyrant's soil should be,
							But freedom reign from mountains to the sea.
							Again this strain floats out with dying breath,
							The day of glory dawns, and all is still in death.
						
					


					
					
						One of the Academy Buildings, at Spiceland, Indiana
					


					
					

					
						WELCOME 
						Read at the Meeting of the Alumni of Spiceland Academy, June, 1890
						
							Welcome, thrice welcome, dear
							Friends, for to-night
							The chain of our friendship adds
							Links new and bright.
							'Tis meet to here widen and
							Strengthen the love
							That is widening and strengthening so
							Surely above.
						
						
							We welcome you here with a
							Warmth as of yore,
							From pulpit and class-room, from
							Farm and from store.
							The doctor and lawyer are
							Scholars again,
							Who greet us to-night with their
							Presence or pen.
						
						
							The maid grown a matron, with
							Hair flecked with gray,
							Yet whose cheek is still brightened with
							Blossoms of May,
							From home and its cares,
							Perplexing, though sweet,
							We are glad with our welcome your
							Coming to meet.
						


						

						
							To-night, from the grave of the
							Long buried years,
							We roll back the stone, and the
							Dead past appears.
							The dead past ! 'Tis the present in
							Newness of life,
							In class-room or play-ground,
							Equipped for the strife.
						
						
							All students again, we
							Marshal once more
							At tap of the bell, on the
							Echoing floor.
							Then lessons are over and
							Games have begun—
							The foremost at study, the
							Foremost at fun.
						
						
							Thus, in the swift routine of
							Work and of play,
							Pass the hours unnumbered,
							Unnoticed, away;
							Until even has come and
							School is "let out,"
							While gay is the laughter and
							Joyous the shout.
						
						
							We are students again,
							Whatever our lot
							In office or court, in
							Mansion or cot.
							Life's morning in freshness breaks
							New on our sight:
							We are students again, if
							But for to-night.
						


						

						
							Ah, vision of pleasure! but
							Vision thou art!
							In practicing lessons we
							Now have our part.
							While fair is the picture, our
							Hearts turn not back,
							Though mountain and moor
							Interpose on life's track.
						
						
							We tread but the path leading
							Up to the school,
							Where the mind's all unwearied by
							Fetter or rule;
							Where teachers and pupils, all
							Students again,
							Are taught by the one perfect
							Teacher of men;
							Where all life's vexed problems that
							Trouble us here,
							In demonstration and proof shall
							Stand perfectly clear.
						
					
					
						Written for the Fiftieth Anniversary of 
							the Founding of Spiceland Quarterly Meeting of Friends
						Backward, roll backward, the sands in the glass,
						And season by season and years as they pass,
						Until our fair Century stands in the prime
						Of his youth, and looks down the fair vista of Time.
						Our village has vanished, and garden, and field,
						And harvests, that now to the husbandman yield;


						

						No broad highways stretch to the populous mart,
						Untamed and secure is the wilderness' heart;
						No shriek of the engine, no train passes by;
						Unharnessed the lightning, the steed of the sky.
						Yet quiet and plenty the wilderness knew,
						The settlers were brothers, though scattered and few;
						Good will brought the help round the log-rolling fire,
						At husking and quilting—the heart, not the hire—
						A day of good will when each shared with the other
						Joy, sorrow, or toil of brother with brother;
						And joys are unknown that are purer and higher
						Than lived in the glow of the open log-fire.
						But the story of earth life is ever the same,
						A mingling of gladness with sorrow and pain,
						And the warmth and the cheer of the bright cabin fire
						Lit often the soul to the home that is higher.
						And, as backward we turn the slow sands in the glass,
						The forms of the loved rise around us and pass—
						We hear the kind voice, full of love as of yore—
						They have blazoned a path to the opposite shore;
						Have pioneered homes by the wide rolling river,
						And wait us with love and with welcome forever.
					
					
						AN INCIDENT
						All the night long, a plaything in their way,
						The wild winds tossed us in their fearful play.
						But now the sun new risen showed us where,
						Dimly and faint as castles in the air,
						The shores girt round more than vision fair;


						

						Through haze and distance, dim and faintly seen,
						A city rose from out the shimmering screen;
						It seemed a vision from the cloud-land given,
						Too fair for earth, more like a glimpse of heaven.
						Between the blue of sky and blue of wave
						The sea gulls floated, silent as the grave;
						Foam that flecked the waves that raged and tossed,
						Seemed from their snow-white wings to be lost.
						On deck was pacing many an eager form,
						Glad for its safety through the midnight storm,
						Anxious to gain the near approaching rest—
						Home, friends, and all the heart holds dearest, best.
						Suddenly all, directed by a cry,
						Look o'er the waves to see what danger nigh:
						Two little land birds wearily and slow
						Flap their tired pinions o'er the waves below;
						No rest for them beneath, around, above,
						Where all eyes pity, and where all hearts love;
						The haven near them, which could shelter, save,
						They see not, heed not, drop into their grave;
						The cruel waves close o'er them and roll on—
						What is it to them, the little lives now gone?
						But many an eye that watched that tragic scene,
						Saw in it symbol of what else had been,
						Saw o'er the world's dark, rolling, seething tide,
						How many, bird like, roam its waters wide,
						Too weak of wing to cross the foaming wave,
						Feeling no shelter near to rest, to save,
						Fainting and heartsick, hopeless, drop and die,
						Tho' helping hands and pitying hearts are nigh.
					


					

					
						HENRY MARTYN,MISSIONARY TO INDIA
						Written When About Sixteen Years of Age
						
							By his window see a student,
							Conning o'er the classic page,
							Dreaming of his fadeless laurels,
							Bright in every future age.
						
						
							Even now around his forehead
							Gems of rarest beauty shine,
							And his soul's keen thirst awakened
							Is not quenched with things of time.
						
						
							He has heard that on Mount Calv'ry,
							Died a Savior for all;
							And he longs to go and tell it,
							And the heathen disenthrall.
						
						
							Can he leave his home and loved ones,
							England's happy groves and dells,
							Hopes of youth all fondly cherished,
							When Fame's fount before him wells?
						
						
							Can he leave those scenes so sacred,
							In a far-off land to dwell,
							Where around him warriors gather
							To hear the truths he may tell?
						


						

						
							Hear to scoff, to mock and jeer him,
							Tell his Savour they despise,
							And would gladly bid him wander
							Far toward the western skies.
						
						
							Yes! and gladly he will leave them,
							Deathless souls he goes to save;
							And before to-morrow's sunlight
							Slants across the western wave,
						
						
							See! a noble ship is sailing,
							Fast she leaves the rocky strand;
							To the winds her sails expanding,
							Bear her from her native land;
						
						
							On her deck a pale form lingers,
							Thus to breathe a last adieu
							To the cliffs which soon forever
							Will have faded from his view.
						
						
							It is hard to rule our natures—
							All the passions calmly tame—
							And awhile the burning tear-drops
							Fell like pearly drops of rain;
						
						
							Then before his mental vision
							Rose far India's coral strand,
							With the tall and graceful palm trees,
							And its wastes of burning sand.
						


						
						
							'Tis a glorious summer morning,
							And behind the mountains gray,
							Rising up, the sun in splendor,
							Tints with gold Ola Ocean's spray.
						
						
							Now a ship, with air majestic,
							Rides at anchor in the bay;
							She has crossed the stormy ocean,
							'Caped the dangers in the way;
						
						
							She has brought the classic student
							To make gardens in the wild,
							And to build an incense altar
							In the heart of India's child.
						
						
							Long he labored in that climate—
							Nobly did his task fulfill;
							And his years, tho' briefly numbered,
							Found him working, watching still.
						
						
							He is dead—the beauteous flower
							Withered in the cheerless clime,
							And was gathered by the reaper
							Where flowers bloom untouched by time.
						
						
							But o'er his memory, fond love
							Yet will sorrowing tear-drops shed;
							But we have the consolation,
							He's now the glorious dead.
						
					
				
				
				
					Papers
					
						WESTERN LIFE AND SCENERY, WITH REFERENCE TO LITERATURE
							Read Before the Western Association of Writers
						The effort to identify in literature what is truly Western, either in original
							inspiration or authorship, makes apparent the oneness of our national life. Of many of
							our writers, Western in nativity, the training for work, the incentives for work, the
							themes upon which their labor has been expended, are of the East, or are
							international. Sometimes, however, the West recognizes, with a feeling of parental
							pride, her own influence on these, her children, as, in the scope and freedom of their
							thought, a spirit born of the prairie, in their recognition of sterling and beautiful
							character, under repellant exteriors, a perception developed by an acquaintance with
							the rough, rugged mountains and their hearts of gold. But, on the part of the West, it
							has not been an unrequited giving; the sections to each other, in this, have been
							reciprocal. If the West has given to the East she has received back again, gift for
							gift, interpreter for interpreter; and no more clearly and appreciatively has the
							sunset pilgrim spoken for his adopted East than has the Eastern alien responded to the
								 inspiration of the West. With an affection, an
							appreciation, and an ardor born of his recognition and acknowledgment that the West
							is truly a part of his fatherland, has the transplanted child of the East voiced for
							the West its thoughts, its needs, its aspirations; and, in sorrow and in love, judged
							it for its sins, and pronounced against its blood-guiltiness. Thus it follows that, in
							the consideration of the assigned theme, there can be no natal limitations, and this,
							as it should be, is in accord with our national spirit. However, the West has clear
							sub-sectional peculiarities in its modes of life, its manners, customs and dialects.
							Its literature, if influenced by these, will also be divisible into the same
							sub-sections. Of these will be noted, especially, the literature of the Mississippi
							Valley and that of the Western slope, as they have notably distinct peculiarities.
						But the line of thought to be followed will be made clearer if, before it is entered
							upon, it be recognized that there are some limitations which, of necessity, must
							determine it: as those of time, place, theme and purpose. There are a number of
							Western writers who, in science, in history, etc., deservedly hold honorable place in
							their ranks with those of any other section, yet these, under the referred to
							restrictions, cannot now even be mentioned. Further, from the many in the purely
							literary field, numbers alone render selections the only course admissible. Many names
							are omitted regretfully, but this paper is not designed to be a biographical memoir.
							Time and purpose also preclude the exposition of any author's works. Illustrative
							references and examples will be trusted to, to  make
							clear or to emphasize the thought, presented, as it shall be, not in generalities, but
							as specifically as possible. With these points before us, it becomes evident that it
							will better serve the present purpose, be clearer and more pleasing,-if the
							illustrations are taken from the authors which are most especially our household
							friends. Of these, there is a poem which is so thoroughly the outgrowth of Hoosier
							life and conditions, that we, of Western birth, feel in it an interest and ownership,
							as if it were an etching of our ancestral home and its occupants, "The Cabin in the
							Clearing," by our honorable Chairman, Mr. B. S. Parker. The rude comfort and plenty of
							this cabin, its latch-string hospitality, illuminated and glorified by the abiding
							love light, the tender pathos of the dead shadow whence two departed where but one
							angel had entered in. Are they not all the simple record of our fathers' or our
							grandfathers' cabins in the clearing, and to us is not ever 
								"The memory a blessing,
								And the picture fair to see?"
						
						The tragic counterpart of this "Cabin in the Clearing," is that of Mr. Carleton's
							"The First Settler's Story." With swift movement and skillful touch, the isolation and
							the difficulties of the pioneer are sketched. With painful fidelity to facts, are
							given the toil and worry and hardships under which, in the heart of one, at least,
							love had died. The sad sequel follows swiftly. The most painful feature is that, while
							the details vary, in our hearts we know that, of the two cabins in the clearing,
							Carleton's is the most typical. Really, the poems of Mr. Carleton have the panoramic
							quality of  presenting a progressive succession of scenes
							in pioneer life, as the "Song of the Axe," "The Camp-Meeting," "An Evening in a
							Country Store," "Betsy and I Are Out," "Over the Hill to the Poor-House." Now, even in
							country stores, commodities are somewhat relegated to their proper belongings. But an
							oldtime country store! Who of us, with eyes not so keen as they used to be, even when
							we do look through glasses, will need spectacles to see it again? That vision of
							childish delight and curiosity! A store, as Mr. Carleton has described it, which
							contained in itself the various offices of grocery, hardware establishment, drug
							store, dry goods emporium, variety shop, and post office.
						Other pictures of pioneer life are found in the "Grammar of Life," by B. F. Taylor,
							or in "The Old-fashioned Fire," and some others by the same author; and in "Western
							Windows," and "Idyls and Lyrics of the Ohio Valley," by J. J. Piatt, the same who
							published jointly with another gentleman a volume of poems, entitled "Poems by Two
							Friends." This friend, W. D. Howells, by the way, is a Western man, who has introduced
							into his novels some Western characters and customs of the West, but who has taken so
							kindly to his transplanting that he might fairly be taken to be indigenous to the
							East.
						Mr. Riley, a native of Indiana, has drawn his inspiration largely from characters and
							customs of the West, and especially is he dialectic. Could he only teach the future to
							interpret his spirit and humor as he interprets himself, the Hoosier spirit would be
							assured of its immortality.


						

						But the Rembrandt of the West-the one who brings out with skillful and true touch
							each peculiarity of rough, uncouth character, be it good or ill—is Edward
							Eggleston. With Flemish fidelity he traces the repulsive homes, their harsh exteriors
							and unattractive interiors; every little circumstance of the arid home-life within,
							while at the same time he invests all in an atmosphere where light and shade blend and
							soften. The effect is much the same as that of time on our memory pictures, and while
							we remain conscious of the severe truth, yet we are at the same time attracted and
							held. Such sketches as these are the schoolmaster's experience in boardin' round: the
							midnight raid of the thieves, the primitive roads, with their attendant and sometimes
							agreeable necessity of pillow riding. And here an effective little touch is given in
							the manner in which one is let into the secret that the human heart is the same,
							whether it beats under the Parisian vestments of the scions of Murry Hill or Fifth
							Avenue, or under a jeans vest or linsey bodice. That the ride is equally fascinating,
							whether the route be a fashionable boulevard, or a blazed bridle path; whether the
							equipage be a dashing turnout, a fur-trimmed cutter, or a horse that would comfortably
							carry double, and the destination a spelling-school, a corn-husking, or an
							apple-bee.
						In the gallery of portraits is the same fidelity to nature, evidently each sat to the
							painter; such an one is rough, honest Budd Means, with the bull-dog tenacity of
							purpose which he so much admired in the brute and unconsciously possessed himself;
							and his "girl as is a girl," Mrs. Means, concerning whom silence is  most expressive; the brutal bullies and thieves, Pete
							Jones and his brother; the contemptible sneak, Hank Banto; the equally contemptible
							political trimmer, Bronson, of a race and type for whose acquaintance we do not have
							to interview memory. Dr. Small, whose picture is so vivid that one finds himself
							asking, who is he? A character for unity, clearness, vividness, and inimitableness of
							delineation, worthy to be placed beside the ignominiously immortal Uriah Heap, and the
							facetiously immortal Sam Weller. Really, in Budd Means and his bull-dog, Mr. Eggleston
							has typified the most marked trait of Western character. Whether Budd Means, in his
							rude vernacular, says, "When Bull takes holt, heaven and yearth can't make him let
							loose;" or, our Western General Grant says, in his bloody campaign in the wilderness,
							"I will fight it out on this line, if it takes all summer," the Western spirit is
							voiced just as truly. Equally well does Mr. Eggleston represent the religious types of
							that early day, whether it be hard-shelled Baptist or Methodist circuit rider, and he
							does it with a kindly sympathy and appreciation that does justice to the good effected
							by such preachers, while showing up honestly their follies, mistakes and foibles. The
							courage and fertility of expedients of Goodwin, and the devotion unto death of Ike
							Lumsden, are a just tribute to those early Methodist pioneers, whose work was the
							breaking down and the uprooting of the lawless passions of lawless men in this then
							borderland of civilization, a work of as much difficulty as subduing the untrained
							forces of the wilderness, and one as effectually done, and by means as heroic.


						

						Altogether different are the characters, the modes of life, and the landscapes, that
							give tone and color to the literature of the great West. One of the first and foremost
							writers to be affected by their influence, and to so voice their moods as to find
							honorable place in our literature, is Bret Harte. Singularly enough and reasonably
							enough, he illustrates what was remarked at first, that the East had given to the West
							those who, though foster children, fully understand, and intelligently, intelligibly
							and affectionately interpret the thought of the adopted parent. Bret Harte, a native
							of New York, went to California in 1855, before its statehood, and in time to acquaint
							himself with the peculiarities of that curiously mixed society, which contained
							elements of both civilized and savage life. There yet remained relics of the old
							Spanish Mission, with its Christianized Indians. There were also the savage tribes of
							the plains, the Chinese, the gold hunters, and adventurers of all kinds, especially
							after the discovery of gold; the scum of the Eastern cities, the off-scouring of the
							borders of civilization, a sparse intermingling of surveyors, geologists, teachers,
							ministers, and a fearful scarcity of women, except of those whose presence was a
							curse. The dram-shop, the gambling-den, the dance-hall were next in frequency to the
							tents, the board shanties, the adobe huts of. the squatters. The picturesque, the
							dramatic, the pathetic in this rude, lawless life, found an apt delineator in the
							young New Yorker. In the Overland Monthly, a magazine whose existence began in 1868
							and terminated in 1875, Mr. Harte first appears in a story, "The Luck of Roaring
							Camp."  Following this were the "Outcasts of Poker
							Flat," "Tennessee's Partner," and the poem most widely known as the "Heathen Chinee."
							The shrewdness and humor of this poem gave a wide popularity to it and its author, and
							also to Mr. Harte's subsequent expositions of the peculiar phrases of that peculiar
							section. From Mr. Harte's apostrophe to the quickly risen city, "San Francisco," I
							quote: "Serene, indifferent to fate,
								Thou sittest at the Western gate;
								Upon thy heights so lately won,
								Still slant the banners of the sun;
								Thou drawest all things, small and great,
								To thee, beside the Western Gate.
								I know thy cunning and thy greed,
								Thy hard, high bust, and willful deed."
						Another poem that reflects a then passing phase of Western life, is "The Angelus,"
							the ringing of the chimes, heard in 1868, at the Mission Dolores: "Bells of the past, whose long-forgotten music
								Still fills the wide expanse,
								Tinging the sober twilight of the present
								With color of romance;
								I hear your call, and see the sun descending
								On rock and wave and sand,
								As down the coast, the mission voices, blending,
								Girdle the heathen land.
								Before me rise the dome-shaped mission towers,
								The white presidio,
								The swart commander, in his leathern jerkin,
								The priest in stole of snow."
						Mr. Harte goes below the surface and brings up nuggets of gold from most unpromising
							surface indications; but while his pictures of natural scenery, and 
							
							
								The Friends' Church, at Spiceland, Indiana
							
							 of the life on mountain, plain, in camp and den and
							dive, are accepted unquestioningly as faithful delineations of that time, by the
							same readers there is entertained a doubt of the truth in his ascriptions to the hard,
							rough denizens of these places, of a lofty heroism, self-sacrifice, and nobility of
							soul. Such critics claim the nuggets to be only brass imitations; but are not their
							ascriptions rather the proof of the prophet, who, to represent truly his people, must
							reach below the seeming—the actual?
						Mr. Harte, I hold, offers in these delineations no palliation for sin, but he, in his
							human measure, sees men as God sees them. When he could utter so truly the very
							intents of the heart of the Western slope, what a pity that his voice should become
							silent! Good fortune has been unkind in holding the eyes that saw so clearly, and
							closing the golden mouth with gold. Not only has Mr. Harte most happily given us the
							pictures referred to, but in his dialectic poems he has voiced the varied
							nationalities of the Pacific coast.
						Joaquin Miller has also given us glimpses of vast, tawny, miraged plains, and
							snow-topped, shadowy mountains; of vaquero, piebald mustang, and jangling spurs gay
							serape, and silver-zoned sombrero; of Indian legend, romance and wrong—of wrongs
							deep, bitter, almost childishly told in their simplicity, but with a burning pathos,
							for there are many "John Logan's."
						A curious kind of reflection of a reflection is John Hay's "Little Breeches" and
							his "Jim Bludsoe." Mr. Hay has caught the spirit of Mr. Harte, and in these has
							voiced it without loss of power.


						

						The West has reflected itself through many able essayists, and magazine serials, or
							newspaper letter writers. Mrs. J. Wallace, Mrs. S. Wallace, Mary Hallock Foote, Mr.
							Remington, are only a few of the many.
						At a very early date the Pacific slope had its humorist in the person of Lieut.
							George A. Derby (John Phoenix), who wrote during the fifties.
						Some of the Western tragedies, growing out of the struggle with slavery, have touched
							the heart of our Eastern Quaker poet, and of them he has spoken in his "Kansas
							Emigrant," "The Burial of Barbour," "Le Marais du Cygne," and others. The horrors of
							our slave system touched other hearts than his, and that of Mrs. Stowe vibrated to the
							stroke until the chords were heard from sea to lake, from sea to sea, and beyond. Mrs.
							Stowe was a Western woman, and the crime against which she spoke was national.
						The horrors of our Indian system has touched some hearts, among them that of H. H., a
							New England woman by birth, and of the far West by residence. "Made strong by familiar
							pain" for those who could not speak, or, if they spoke, would not be heard, H. H. has
							spoken. The black features of our Indian system are faithfully depicted in "A Century
							of Dishonor," and in "Ramona." In the latter, following her story, we are led through
							the peculiar vegetation of Southern California; we are given glimpses of the strange
							patriarchal life of this part of the new world. We are introduced into the home life
							of the Christianized Indians; we see the strong and beneficial influences of one who
							was a priest, in spirit as well as in garb. But through it all there is not a hair's
							breadth of swerving from the  purpose, to reflect truly,
							in all its hideousness, this national crime of willful self-blinding, by our Saxon
							greed, and of willful trampling out of the weak in our Viking spirit. It is these
							qualities in our nature that have hung in the skeleton closet of our literature:
							"Uncle Tom," "John Logan," "Allesandro."
						Turning from this to the grain fields of our prairies, whose products feed the world,
							would it be a strained presumption to infer that they may have suggested to Mrs. S. K.
							Bolton the importance of sowing good seed in the hearts of Young America, and that the
							suggestion ripened into the inspiration which has given to our young people such
							helpful, well-written books as "Poor Boys Who Became Famous," and "Girls Who Became
							Famous"?
						To only one other influence on our literature, traceable to the West, will reference
							be made. It is that of our Western spirit of daring all things, overcoming all things.
							It is this spirit that tunneled our mountains, filled or bridged the chasms, and cut a
							path in mid-air on the mountain side. Is it too boastful to claim that it is the
							influence of this same Western spirit on our literature that is revealed by that
							author who has given us minutely truthful descriptions of a land in which his foot had
							never trodden, and on which his eye had never rested; of a social system for centuries
							obsolete, and of a government for ages passed away; a picture, concerning which adepts
							in history have no unfavorable criticism to offer, and yet which the general reader
							finds so vivid and richly colored that he can scarcely tear himself from its study? To
							weave all this into a story whose unity and cohesion are perfect, to make the central
							figure of  all this life, the one perfect life, who takes
							a part in it all as really and as vividly and as humanly as any figure in it, and yet
							never for an instant sinks the divine into the weak, the commonplace, the familiar;
							to do all this in such a masterly manner surely requires the spirit that recognizes
							nothing as impossible—that makes a way where there is none. Now, whether or not
							it be a foundationless vaunt to claim this to be the result of Western impulse, it is
							a truth that a Western man accomplished such a work when General Lew Wallace wrote "
							Ben Hur."
					
					
						TRAMPING AT SEA
						"Counting the hours by bells and lights,
							We sailed and sailed;
							Ten lonely days, ten lonely nights,
							No ship we hailed."
						Then there came a ripple of excitement, which reached even the sick in their
							state-rooms. The ship was nearing the Azores—would pass the group before
							daylight the next morning.
						Here was not a stopping point for the steamer; and vigilance alone could secure a
							view. It was, therefore, decided that the first to waken should arouse the rest. At 4
							o'clock A. M. all, whose resolution had not passed with their dreams, were on deck. At
							first, nothing like land could be discerned; above, from horizon to horizon, stretched
							the black, blue, starry  sky; beneath, the black, blue,
							starless sea; between the two the ship swept on, with no sound but the gurgling lapse
							of the waves and the creak of the machinery.
						At length, far in front, on the very horizon's edge, a blue-gray cloud-mass lifted
							itself to view. Slowly it took on definite outlines; then, from a point on its lower
							edge, a clear red light flashed out, and lines and dots of white appeared. It was the
							island of San Miguel, with the port of Ponta Delgada.
						Four American passengers, most anxious to visit the island, had been plying the
							Captain with golden arguments, and gold won. For four hundred dollars the ship's
							insurance was forfeited, by stopping out of her course and at a port not her own, and
							she lay by until 5 o'clock P. M.
						"Such is the advantage of being on a tramp ship," wittily remarked a passenger, "as
							well ask a conductor, for the convenience of some of his passengers, to stop an
							express train in a blackberry patch as to suggest such an act to the captain of a
							Cunarder."
						At dawn, small native boats appeared at the ship's side, and most of the passengers
							went ashore; one American leaving his wife, who had been very ill throughout the
							voyage, in her steamer chair on deck, facing seaward, but with
							considerate admonitions to "take care of the dog."
						Ponta Delgada is a quaint old town, in a polychromatic garb, for, where its houses
							have not an outside facing of blue and white glazed tiles, they are coated with a wash
							of pale yellow, pale pink, or pale blue, and are set behind high, plastered walls of
							the same  color and tint. The windows, of various shapes
							and sizes, are protected by massive iron gratings, and usually have below each a small
							iron balcony.
						The pavements, so narrow that two persons, unless very well agreed, can not walk side
							by side; the streets, narrow also, are alike paved with lava. Down these narrow,
							high-walled causeways, with thunderous reverberations, dash barouches, drawn by three
							mules, harnessed abreast, or by horses.
						The vehicle for the transportation of commodities is the ever-enduring donkey, or a
							hand-cart. A padded frame, held in place by straps, is settled upon the donkey; and
							upon this platform is set hay, barrels, or people, as the need requires; or panniers,
							as long as the beast and almost as deep as he is high, are swung, one on each side.
							Into these are thrust vegetables of various kinds, until their tops form a wide,
							verdant ridge, towering aloft from end to end. From this moving green mound, the
							protrusion at the extremities, of ears and a tail, and, from beneath, of the hoofs,
							are the only indications of the motor power. The streets are, in places, very steep,
							and, to provide against slipping, the donkeys' shoes are made solid behind, and
							curving downward.
						While one of the party attended mass in a very old, very much carved and gilded
							church, the others visited the plaza, to which a fountain, a summer-house, and flowers
							invited.
						How far, oh, home! must thy children wander, to hear no voice from thee? Between us,
							now, lie nearly an ocean and half a continent, and yet here are thy flowers—
							geraniums, nasturtiums, alyssum.


						

						Has the English language no limits, and American enterprise no boundaries? At the
							Hotel Azorean an English-speaking clerk ordered for us our beefsteak and eggs, butter
							and rye bread, and an American photographer seductively offered us his services
							also.
						We learn that this island of San Miguel is thirty-five miles long and six broad, and
							has a population of 400,000, of whom 20,000 are in this city.
						The form of the island—that of a broad, low cone— points to its volcanic
							origin, as does also the everywhere abundant surface rock, which is largely vesicular
							lava. This rock, comminuted and decayed, forms a rich soil, which is attested by the
							well cultivated fields everywhere in view around the city.
						During a drive, the coachman stopped before a gate, set in a high wall. To a knock,
							the portal opened; it was a Prince's garden; the fernery was the first room: glass
							formed three sides, the fourth was the face of a bluff, some fifteen feet high, but
							covered, from floor to ceiling, with one unbroken mass of the delicate, drooping, dewy
							fronds of a maiden-hair fern.
						Outside, paths led in various directions; some, unexpectedly, into grottoes, through
							whose loophole windows vistas opened where tree ferns grew and rose vines trailed; or
							evergreens, trimmed in level-topped, compact masses, stood like tables of malachite.
							Another avenue was shaded by lofty palms, and under these were iron chairs. Here the
							loiterer might rest, while the eye wandered over slopes, set with japonicas, of
							treelike proportions, bearing, in profusion, their large, waxen flowers, crimson or
							pink, variegated or pure white, and many other plants and trees, beautiful and
							unknown.



						

						Quickly the day ended, and the ship's signal gun announced the hour for
							departure.
						This is a region of sudden atmospheric changes, and the day, which had opened in
							brightness, was closing in stormy threats. The air was growing thick with a
							portentous, murky haze, and the wind threw the hitherto glassy bay into high, curling
							billows.
						One little boat, heavily laden with its ten passengers and two oarsmen, sank almost
							to the water's edge, as it rose on the crest of the waves, or settled into their
							watery hollows; nor was this the only peril of its passengers. On the rope ladder,
							thrown over the ship's side for the occasion, a foothold must be gained by a quick
							leap at the moment a wave bore the little craft to the ship's side, and before its
							recession should leave an impassable gap of ocean between them.
						Only one day's tarrying in the Hesperides, with its apples of gold and its gardens of
							Paradise, but it was a rest by the way. Four days later the mountains of Spain and of
							Africa came into view; the latter, tawny and towering. This glimpse of Africa was
							typical of the land—so great, yet in eclipse. Converging lines of various colored
							lights from numerous lighthouses guided into the Bay of Gibraltar. Here was a brief
							but a legitimate haven.
						As the sun rose from behind the mountain, the city could be seen clinging along the
							face of the bluff, like swallows' nests in a barn. The illusion was heightened by the
							presence of vast multitudes of gulls, which flapped their broad wings as they rose
							from the water, or circled gracefully overhead, or floated on the waves as if a part
							of them.


						
						The Rock of Gibraltar is grand of aspect, whether viewed from either the Atlantic or
							the Mediterranean side, yet each view is widely different from the other. From the
							Atlantic side, without stretch of the imagination, the contour is that of a couchant
							lion. His paws extend toward the strait and Africa, and upon them his head rests in
							watchful attitude. On the Mediterranean side the outline is conical, and the face of
							the Rock, a sheer precipice fifteen hundred feet high; the length is given as nine and
							a half miles.
						Of all the cities in the world, none can be more cosmopolitan in character than is
							Gibraltar. Its location compels this, and the peculiarity impresses itself at once.
							Near the place of landing, on the one hand is a large, Moorish Bazaar, with all the
							commodities of Africa and the Orient; on the other is a Christian market-place, with
							the wares and the fruits of Europe—grapes, figs, pomegranites, oranges; great,
							shining Spanish chestnuts; and tiny bananas, not half so large as our own—and all so
							surprisingly cheap.
						But the people interest one more than do the wares, for, in the streets, men of all
							nations meet and intermingle and jostle one another. A tall, straight, dark man, a
							very Apollo in form, attired in Oriental costume, and wearing a white, unvisored cap,
							the guide points out as an Algerine Jew. Of two great, fat, waddling fellows, in white
							turbans, white petticoats and yellow sandals, the darker one in black mantle and
							yellow stockings, is the Moorish Ambassador; while his companion, in white mantle and
							no stockings, is an attendant. There is the bronzed Arab in Oriental trousers and red
							fez; the Bedouin sheik in camels'  hair bornous, with the
							stride of the desert; comely Greeks; black, liquid-eyed Italians; gesticulating
							Frenchmen; lithe, swarthy Spaniards, with a stiletto gleam in their black eyes; while,
							among them all, moves the bustling, authoritative Englishman, ruddy and rotund; and
							the eager, inquisitive American, who, be he snob, exquisite, or gentleman, invariably
							wears the indefinable air of inborn freedom.
						But the mind, weary with the whirl and confusion of this living, jarring mass of
							humanity, seeks rest, and on the heights will find it. Here, at the point where a
							carriage can ascend no farther, climb to the battlement, and look and remember
							forever. Beneath lie the tranquil waters of the Bay of Gibraltar, dotted with the
							shipping of many nations; beyond, to the northwest, faint lilac and blue, and
							cloudlike, rise the mountains of Spain; to the southwest, the Atlantic clasps hands
							with the Mediterranean; more directly south, dimmer and more cloudlike than the
							Spanish Sierras, loom up the mountains of Africa; while in the east, scintillating in
							the sun, is the pure blue of the Mediterranean.
						Shall we pitch our tents, for it is good to be here? No. The gates of the Old World
							open to the pilgrim from the New. To-morrow we pass through the Straits of
							Gibraltar.
					


					

					
						THE LAND OF THE LADY OF THE LAKE
						Twenty miles, say the guide books, from Glasgow to Balloch; from the substantial,
							full-of-business, manufacturing and commercial city to the threshold of the
							wilderness. Only the distance from Grand Forks to Reynolds; yet, as you step on board
							the little craft that is to carry you from the head to the foot of Loch Lomond, and as
							you catch a glimpse of mountains in the distance, and of Ben Lomond's towering figure
							nearer at hand, you feel that you have passed from one world into another; from the
							one that man has made to another he has neither modified nor marred. Loch Lomond lies
							in the very lap of the mountains; and you can see through gaps between peaks, other
							heights and other heights, in dim and dimmer perspective, until, at last, all outline
							loses itself in the gray, blue distance.
						The boat has been winding in and out among small, wooded islands, and, if you left
							Balloch in the afternoon, supper time finds you still upon the lake. Reluctantly, you
							leave the deck for the dining-saloon below, and you are delighted to see that its
							walls are mainly windows. You find a seat as near to the bow as possible, so as to
							command the view in front as well as on each side; and you divide your time in
							ministering to the physical and the aesthetic.
						A mile before you reach Inversnaid you pass, but do not see, the cave of Rob Roy in
							the side of Ben Lomond. Here, it is said, in times of need, the famous  outlaw occasionally found shelter. It is rare to have a
							complete view of Ben Lomond. Sometimes his head is swathed in mists; sometimes, "While 'round his breast, the rolling clouds are spread,"
								The "Eternal sunshine settles on his head."
						It would seem that the Earl of Montrose, who owns the mountain, and the Earl of
							Antrim, who owns the Giant's Causeway, have each a lion's share in giving pleasure to
							the world.
						An evening at Inversnaid is ideal. The hotel, an ample stone house, and all there is
							of the place, crouches close against the foot of the mountain, on a narrow niche of
							land between it and the lake. Beside it, from its source in the peat bogs above, roars
							and foams and tumbles the brown waters of the Arklet over the falls of Inversnaid. It
							looks as if some beer tun of the giants had, suddenly, broken all its hoops, and the
							contents were being hurled down the mountain. Near this waterfall, nature-loving
							Wadsworth saw the "Highland Girl," of whom he wrote: Sweet,
									Highland girl! a very shower
								Of beauty is thy earthly dower;
								Nor am I loth, though pleased at heart,
								Sweet, Highland girl, from thee to part;
								For I, methinks, till I grow old,
								As fair before me shall behold
								As I do now—the cabin small,
								The lake, the bay, the waterfall,
								And thee, the spirit of them all.
						In this hotel are two great rooms, with low ceilings and ample fireplaces. Even now,
							in mid August, the guests gather around the comfortable fires. From the  hotel, narrow paths, that easily become rivulets, wind up
							the mountains; and he who would obtain a wider view must climb them. One of these
							leads up to a plateau, from which is a view of Loch Lomond and the mountains beyond
							it. As they stand transfigured in the last light of the sun, they look to belong more
							to cloudland than to earth. On this plateau the heather lies in great, purple masses,
							a carpet over the ground. You rest well in this pure, mountain air, lulled to sleep by
							the roar of the waterfall.
						Next morning, bright and early, the coaches draw up, seemingly from nowhere. They are
							vehicles that accommodate the luggage inside and below, and the passengers outside and
							above. Although it may be a showery morning, you climb tip at once into the box seat,
							and sit there, soaked and happy. Whether the driver can give you any information about
							the route or not, no umbrella can go up in front of you and shut out the view, and no
							tobacco smoke come down and envelop you in a temporary fog. You have a wild ride
							before you, and, come what may, you will need a ladder to descend. But the four great,
							willing horses seem to understand it all; steadily they draw the heavy coach up the
							steep roads, and whirl it down the rocky inclines. You have read that you pass in
							sight of the ruins of an old castle and of a cabin, the birthplace of Helen MacGregor,
							the wife of Rob Roy, but, in point of fact, you see not a house nor a hut to suggest
							by its presence that civilization is near. "The stag might
									here have drunk his fill,
								As in far Monan's silver rill;
								And deep his midnight lair have made,
								As in Glen Artneys' hazel shade."
						

						

						The telegraph line, however, shows that man has passed by, and has thought, not only
							of his comfort, but his pleasure. Little square tags hang at intervals from the wire,
							to show the grouse its presence, and thus prevent them from flying against it and
							killing themselves, and forestalling the hunter's noble pleasure of their slaughter
							later in the season.
						Too soon you draw up at Stranachlacher, at the head of Loch Katrine, and your
							mountain ride is ended. A boat is waiting to take passengers to the Trosachs, at the
							foot of the lake. You have a little time before starting, and you can add to your
							varieties of heather, eat luncheon, buy, at several prices, grapes or pears or plums,
							and note the beauty of the landscape. Finally, the bell rings, and you walk on board
							the boat—the little Rob Roy. It seems like a dream that you are really moving
							over the waters of Loch Katrine, and a very short dream at that, for, in
							three-quarters of an hour, the nine and a half miles are passed over. But you have
							seen, upon your right, the stalwart outlines of Ben Lomond, and nearer, "High on the
							south, hung Ben Venue." "A wildering forest feathered o'er
								His ruined sides and summit hoar;
								While on the north, through middle air,
								Ben An heaved high his forehead bare." You have also passed Ellen's Isle,
							but no more "The viewless wave
								Kisses with whispering sound and slow,
								The beach of pebbles, white as snow." The practical present here presses
							hard upon the romantic past, and the "silver strand" is lost to view by the banking
							up of the lake to secure a water supply  for Glasgow. But
							the island looks as wild and tenantless as it may have appeared when the Douglasses
							sought in it shelter and safety. "'T was all so close with
									copse wood bound,
								Nor track nor pathway might declare
								That human foot frequented there."
						Soon after passing the green birches of Ellen's Isle, the Rob Roy stops at the pier
							of the Trosachs. Again, for a mile on top of a coach, you wind through the savage
							gorge, where the mountain wall has been rent apart. Sometimes great masses of feathery
							brake conceal, with their soft green, the scarred and riven sides, or the heather
							softens, with its purples, the harsh gray of the granite. On a jutting point, where a
							little soil has gathered, a birch shoots up his silver shaft; and you wonder from
							what secret source, in the bosom of these crags, the wilderness of trees around you
							draw their support. At the Trosach hotel you find luncheon ready, and, after it, there
							is a short rest for the ride that is to follow. The road now leads by Lochs Achray and
							Vennacher, and between them you see the Brig o' Turk as you cross Glen Finlas. Lanrick
							Mead is as level and as grassy a meadow as when the clans assembled on it at summons
							of the fiery cross. Here, as you begin a slight ascent, two men, dressed as
							Highlanders, spring up from behind some bushes, and play lustily on the bagpipe. But
								"* * * from no copse nor heath arose
								Bonnets and spears and bended bows." A handful of pennies thrown down,
							and picked up, and "Each warrior vanished where he stood."
							Soon Coilantogle ford, on the river Teith, comes
							into view, and you find yourself mentally reciting: "Bold
									Saxon ! to his promise just,
								Vich-Alpine has discharged his trust.
								This murderous chief, this ruthless man,
								This head of a rebellious clan
								Hath led thee safe, through watch and ward,
								Far past Clan Alpine's outmost guard:
								Now, man to man, and steel to steel,
								A chieftain's vengeance shalt thou feel:
								See, all vantageless I stand,
								Armed like thyself with single brand,
								For this is Coilantogle ford,
								And thou must keep thee with thy sword." And you feel a deep regret that
							the brave and generous Highlander's was not a different fate.
						By the middle of the afternoon you are in Callander, and, as you pass the house of
							your own beneficent Carnegie, you realize the thought that the practical present is
							better for mankind than the best of the romantic past. But, before you enter the
							railway carriage that is to carry you to Stirling, you wish to take a long and final
							look at the places invested with such deep and human interest by the great "Wizard of
							the North," and you are yet in their midst. To the northeast, beyond "the heaths of
							Umbar," lie the "hazel shades of Glen Artney." Almost directly in the north "the sun
							is kindling on Ben Voirlich's head; to the west, "* * where Lieth's young waters
							roll," stood the chapel of St. Bride, when 
								"Her troth, Tombeau's Mary, gave
								To Norman, heir of Armandave;" and
								"Duncraggan's orphaned heir,
								The fatal sign of fire and sword
								Held forth and spoke the appointed word.
								The muster place is Laurick's Mead,
								Speed with the signal, Norman, speed!"


						
						
						
							Hannah E. Davis' Childhood Home
						

						

						At Stirling your horse's "Clattering feet
								Echo along the flinty street," as you climb the steep ascent to the
							castle, still corniced with the massive barbs of its old portcullis. You have entered
							the "court of guard." A window is pointed out, from which was thrown the body of Earl
							William Douglass, an ancestor of the Lady of the Lake. While under royal safeguard he
							was murdered by the king's own hand. An old soldier, a man of grand physique, is now
							your guide. He leads to the eastern battlement and points out the site of Bannockburn.
							He sees your lips move, and gives the pathetic explanation: "I am an old artilleryman,
							and, therefore, deaf."But he understands well wherefore you have come, and, taking
							you to the side which commands the valley of the Forth, indicates the site of thirteen
							battle-fields, which you cannot see through the mists. Below you, on the slope, he
							points out a stone which still marks "The sad and fatal
									mound
								That oft had heard the death axe sound,
								As on the noblest of the land
								Fell the stern headsman's bloody hand." On the south, which once
							overlooked the castle park, you see the ladies' "rock," where once assembled the
							ladies of the castle, to watch the games below. It was in this park that when "Douglass bent his bow of might,
								His first shaft centered in the white
								Where he wrestled with Hugh of Lambert,
								And John of Alloa; and where
								he rent the earth's fast stone
								From its deep bed, then heaved it high,
								And sent the fragment through the sky."
							 Once more you look away and beyond to Ben Voirlich, Ben
							Ledi, Ben Venue, then to Cambus, Kenneth Abbey and the links of the Forth.
						You have lived long and traveled far, yet, by actual count, since you left Balloch,
							at the head of Loch Lomond, to Stirling, you have passed over just sixty-one miles,
							not so far as from Grand Forks to Fargo. But you have visited the Mecca of all lovers
							of the Lady of the Lake. And you have lived over, as a reality, that stirring romance.
							You have crossed an ocean and half a continent to come, and you would gladly do it
							again, for the spirit of the"Land of the Lady of the Lake" appeals not only to the
							romantic, the chivalrous and the patriotic, but also to the tenderest and the best
							instincts of the human race.
					
					
						THE INFLUENCE OF ITALY UPON AMERICAN ART AND LITERATURE
						Read Before the Western Association of Writers
						The qualifying word in the theme limits the subject to one scion of the parent stock,
							but, to have any clear knowledge of this offspring, it must be borne in mind that it
							is its mother's child, and that natural law holds in the mental world as truly as in
							the physical.
						The first point, then, for investigation, is that of pre-natal influences. This will
							take us a long way back, and to a period long antedating our birth.  Varied and strange and violent and antagonistic are the
							influences we are able to find, which, by their conquering power over others, or their
							fusion or blending with others, gave a character to the mother which impressed itself
							on her then unborn child. Undoubtedly, there were many other influences that combine
							with those, but which are too elusive or too subtle to be definitely traced. Of these
							latter, emanating from an Italian source, perhaps, might be classed all of the mind
							and character moulding accomplished by the Romans during their five hundred years'
							occupation of England. Their influence went out through two entirely separate channels
							; one, the physical and social condition of the people, the other, their religious
							impressions. The Romans did soften the rugged manners and sentiments of the Britons,
							and developed ideas of unity and order and law; Christianity was also introduced, with
							all its elevating and enlightening and developing tendencies. To summarize, then, it
							might be said that, violent and cruel and licentious as were the Romans, the first
							influence brought to bear on our savage ancestors was by them, and it was for order
							and humanity and religion; nor was this influence wholly lost during the lawless ages that
							followed. The influences of this period have been referred to as subtle and elusive,
							and such they were. Of all that was felt and thought by the brave men and courageous
							women of that time, not one written expression has come down to us. It is a voiceless
							past that speaks to us through the experience of the ages, and says: "Whatever of true life there was in me
								Leaps in your age's veins."


						

						The next period, brief and swift, comes down to us in the fierce clamor of war echoed
							still through its battle songs; but, rising through them and above, we have the still,
							small voice for which we are seeking, the Italian influence heard again through the
							Church, as in the songs of Cedmon and Aldhelm, of Cynewulf, and the rare works of
							Baeda, and of that king of earthly kings, whose life and whose works agreed in this: 
							"So long as I have lived, I have striven to live worthily." Guizot says: "This fact
							is evident, the intellectual and moral progress of Europe has been essentially
							theological. Look at its history, from the fifth to the sixteenth century, and you
							will find throughout that theology has possessed and directed the human mind; every
							question that has been started, whether philosophical, political, or historical, has
							been considered in a religious view. So powerful, indeed, has been the authority of
							the Church, in matters of intellect, that even the mathematical and physical sciences
							have been obliged to submit to its doctrines." That Church was the Church of Rome, an
							Italian influence, an influence harmful in many directions, but, in certain lines,
							salutary in its effect on intellectual life. The quotation expressed Guizot's thoughts
							for the period from the fifth to the sixteenth century, which includes the more
							limited periods already discussed, and also those extending down to the time of the
							Stuarts. His was a general statement, and, to realize upon what a basis of truth it
							rests, it must be remembered how, everywhere in their conquests, the Gothic Races came
							in contact with Roman civilization and laws, and how, in turn, the conquerors became
							the conquered, by Latin Christianity evangelizing these races.


						

						It must be remembered that, "After the Barbaric invasion, Italy was the first to
							regain the arts of civilization; that she then took the lead in commerce, in freedom,
							in the industrial arts, in literature, and, later, in science, and that the Latin
							language, during the middle ages, was the universal language of Western Europe. It not
							only contained the works of art, of religion, of science, of philosophy, but it also
							transmitted the classical works of earlier Rome." Into England was brought this
							influence by the imitative, assimilative Norman, who much more reflected Italian
							influence, passed through the medium of the French, than he did the Viking
							progenitors. He multiplied abbeys and monasteries all over England, and introduced
							vast numbers of monks and other Church beneficiaries, into whose hands were consigned
							so much of value of an educational and literary character.
						So far have been traced, in our literature, Italian influences, as they flowed subtle
							and elusive, through conquest, or vigorous and all-absorbing, through the Church; now,
							in the fourteenth century, these may give place to the consideration of a new and
							different current of the same influence—that of the classical authors on the English
							literature of the century. To the Latin is literature indebted for those stories of
							earlier times, which reappear so often in the works of Chaucer and also in those of
							the later poets; tales which have furnished material to poets through all the years
							since, and which have been gathered into Latin collections and translated into other
							tongues; tales which, from their semi-historic character, have gradually grown into
							the popular heart, and have influenced  in their choice
							of subjects such men as Chaucer and Shakespeare. In the fourteenth century this new
							influence on English literature centralizes in the writings of one man—Goeffrey
							Chaucer. Twice during his eventful life did he represent his king at the Italian
							court, and to this rare mind this period of his life opened up a new world in literary
							art, and through him to English literature for all time. Italy had then her Dante, and
							the works of her Petrarca and of her Boccacio were well nigh finished. Italian
							literature, which then inspired the literature of all Europe, and still inspires, had
							reached its zenith. From Dante's "Vita Nuova" and "Divina Commedia,"Chaucer learned
							the power and range of poetry; from the Sonnets of Petrarca what is meant by form in
							poetry; from the tales of Boccacio he first learned how to tell a story exquisitely,
							and, from the same source, he obtained ideas of plot and arrangement which are
							manifest in his "Canterbury Tales." Chaucer's chief work, at this time, attests the
							Italian influence in subject and treatment, for, with variations toward the side of
							purity and good taste and piety, and eliminations and additions, and the introduction
							of his own tenderness, vividness and simplicity, the Filostrato of Boccacio now
							becomes the Troylus and Crescide of Chaucer.
						The next tidal wave of Italian influence, which broke on the shores of our
							literature, was produced by the downfall of Constantinople. The scholars, with their
							invaluable ancient manuscripts, took refuge over Italy; schools were opened in its
							cities, and it was not long before Englishmen, taught in these schools, returned to
							England to establish similar institutions of learning, 
							through which to impart to their countrymen their acquired knowledge. The then recent
							invention of printing was, in this effort, an invaluable aid, enabling the translators
							to put into the hands of all Englishmen the classic authors. The blaze of literary
							glory which, later, illuminated the Elizabethan heavens, had, in the growth of these
							influences, their cumulative force— its true explanation. Through the
							Elizabethan age, Italian influence, more controlling then than before or after,
							exerted a force in two ways: first, in classical scholarship; second, in Italian
							literature. In the first it became a permeating power, giving political measures, as
							in Spencer; fixing standards of taste and supplying themes, as in Shakespeare;
							suggesting kinds of poetry, as the love sonnets and lyrics of Wyatt and Surrey, who,
							in establishing the amourists, reflect through them the manner of composition of
							Petrarca, as well as his sentiments—subtle, refined, chivalrous. The second
							influence, that of Italian literature, manifested itself in translations of Ariosto
							and Tasso; in Surrey's translation of Virgil, in which he gives to English literature
							a new form of expression—that of blank verse—a reform also obtained from
							Italy. Little, in later years, has Italy added to the work of her great masters of
							thought. Political tyranny and ecclesiastical tyranny have combined to set foot on her
							fair neck, and, though she has now overthrown both despots, the struggle consumed her
							energies and her intellectual life.
						Thus may be outlined the prenatal influence of American literature; and it is well
							for us that our mother, with the life we drew from her, imparted to  us so goodly an heritage, for, with us, too, as with
							modern Italy, political struggles for freedom and unity have drawn heavily on our
							resources, intellectually as well as financially. In addition, our struggles with the
							wilderness, and our youth, have given little time for appropriating or utilizing the
							resources at our command. It were vain to seek for Italian influence among the writers
							of our colonial period, or of our revolutionary period. The exigencies of the occasion
							became their inspiration. Only among our later writers, and, of these, our college
							men, need we look for this influence, and there not in vain. It is true that Whittier
							has written on themes Italian, but it is not an injustice to suggest that his choice
							of subjects has been more the result of a living sympathy with the whole brotherhood
							of man, and not from a personal acquaintance with Italian authors. Through the works
							of Longfellow is most directly traceable both classic Italian influence and modern.
							Mr. Longfellow's literary scholarship, including, as it did, his familiarity with the
							literature of other languages, has enabled him to induct into our reservoirs of
							literature living streams from many foreign fountains; bathing so continually as a
							translator in these classic waters, there has been infused into his own soul their
							finer, subtler essence, their deeper thought. This is manifest in his crowning work,
							the translation of Dante's "Divina Commedia," written after his own second baptism of
							sorrow, as a surcease. There is, also, in many of the poems of Longfellow, in almost
							every line, a wealth of classic allusions, which, never profuse nor ostentatious,
							holds with charmed interest the cultured reader.


						

						The theme, Italian Influence on American Literature, was perhaps suggested to elicit
							especially a discussion of the effect of classic Italian on the thought and form of
							our literature, and with that conception has the theme thus far been considered; but
							it were within its legitimate bounds to give a thought to that form of Italian
							influence which, to the majority of readers, is the more apparent and the more
							interesting. The reference is to the influence of the Italy of to-day, with its
							climate and scenery, its modes of life, its history, its political revolutions and
							evolutions, its legends, and medieval and Catholic imagery, that absolutely crowd the
							verse of Longfellow. Of these, a few will be noted; and here it were well to direct
							the attention to the volume of thought compacted often into the limits of a single
							stanza.
						In one of Lonfellow's repeated visits to Italy, the poet spent the night in the old
							Benedictine monastery of Monte Cassino, and from its window he looked upon "The land of labor and the land of rest,
								Where mediaeval towns are white on all
								The hillsides, and where every mountain's crest
								Is an Etrurian or a Roman wall."
						Of Amalfi, he writes: "Sweet the memory is to me
								Of a land beyond the sea,
								Where the waves and mountains meet;
								Where, amid her mulberry trees,
								Sits Amalfi in the heat,
								Bathing ever her white feet
								In the tideless summer seas."
						Then, with swift, skillful hand, he gathers up her glory and her loss; she, the
							commercial metropolis, the departing point of the crusaders, the rallying point of  the pilgrims; she, the city now under the sea, and binds
							the memories together in the sheaf of his verse.
						Of Venice, the poet says: 
									"The white swan of cities, slumbering in thy nest,
									So wonderfully built among the reeds.
								
								
									The white water-lily cradled and caressed
									By ocean streams, and from the silt and weed
									Lifting thy golden filaments and seeds,
									Thy sun-illumined spires, thy crown and crest."
								
						Of Florence, his memories are of Giotto's Tower: "The lily of
								Florence blossoming in stone." And of the Old Bridge, "Five centuries old, planting his foot of stone
								Upon the Arno as St. Michael's own was planted on the dragon." It is a
							Roman memory also that inspires the last stanza of "The Haunted Chamber," the old
							bridge over the Tiber, which it crosses in front of the Castello St. Angelo. On either
							side of this bridge, along its entire length, is a row of more than life-size statues.
							This bridge was the place of execution of Beatrice Cenci. The stanza referred to is
							the following: "What are ye, oh pallid phantoms,
								But the statues without breath
								That stand on the bridge over-arching
								The silent river of death?"
						In Longfellow's mind, an author says: "Medimeval and Catholic imagery seem
							spontaneous; the clouds are hooded friars, who tell their beads in drops of rain.
							Autumn writes his rubric on the illuminated leaves; the wind turns them over and
							chants like a friar."


						

						Concerning his dead child, the poet expresses his beautiful hope and trust: "In the great cloister's stillness and seclusion,
								By guardian angels led,
								Safe from temptation, safe from sin's pollution,
								She lives whom we call dead."
						The old Catholic legends of myth and miracle, absurd and monstrous, are clay
							transmuted to gold by his touch, as in "The Legend Beautiful," and "Gasper Becerra."
							To Longfellow, the light-house near his home, 
									"Like the great giant Christopher, it stands
									Upon the brink of the tempestuous wave,
									Wading far out among the rocks and sands
									The night-o'ertaken mariner to save.
								
								
									"A new Prometheus chained upon the rock,
									Still grasping in his hand the fires of Jove,
									It does not hear the cry nor heed the shock,
									But hails the mariner with words of love."
								
						Even in thought of his children, the mediaeval spirit clothes the poet's
							expression— 
									"Do you think, O, blue-eyed banditti!
									Because you have scaled the wall,
									Such an old mustache as I am
									Is not a match for you all?
								
								
									"I have you here in my fortress,
									And I will not let you depart;
									But put you in the dungeon,
									In the round tower of my heart.
								
								
									"And there will I keep you forever—
									Forever and a day,
									Till the walls shall crumble to ruins
									And moulder in dust away."
								
						

						
						 The thought most influencing the mind that seeks to trace the clue of Italian
							influence through the intricate mazes of this lonely, winding way, is best expressed
							in that Italian master mind, whose rare inheritance was the trinity of gifts, and
							whose thought Longfellow has interpreted to us in the dedication of the poem, "
							Michael Angelo." 
									"Nothing that is shall perish utterly,
									But perish only to revive again
									In other forms, as clouds restore in rain
									The exhalations of the land and sea.
									Men build their houses from the masonry
									Of ruined tombs; the passion and the pain
									Of hearts that long have ceased to beat, remain
									To throb the hearts that are, or are to be.
								
								
									Quickened are they that touch the prophet's bones."
								
					
					
						HOW SHALL WE HOLD OUR BIG BOYS?
						Read at a Sunday School Convention
						 
						This is a perplexing question that lies very near many of our hearts, whether they be
							our boys or some other mother's sons. Indeed, the problem presses with heavy weight on
							every heart which recognizes that, in the moral and the spiritual worlds, just as
							truly as in the physical world, like produces like, and for every seed sowing there is
							the legitimate harvest. But, involved as the question is, there are in it manifestly a
							few underlying, guiding principles for its solution. 
							Human means are futile; hence, these principles do not lead to a satisfactory solution
							in every case, but do so in a majority of instances.
						Primarily, the ability "to hold our big boys" rests on what they think of us; and the
							impression we make on them, depends largely on two things: First, What we ourselves
							are; Second, What we think of them. In consideration of the first proposition and its
							first corollary—What the boys think of us, and What we ourselves are—these
							points present themselves: What does favorably impress a boy, or man, either, for that
							matter? Three things which are strictly co-ordinate: One of them is power; another,
							absolute sincerity; another, sympathy and love.
						The average boy, in common with all humanity, has little reverence for the weak,
							either physically, mentally or morally. Why does the brutal bully of the prize-ring
							have such charms for him, or such characters as the James brothers, or the frontier
							ruffian? It is the power they represent, shown in their ability to execute difficult
							feats, or in being the heroes of blood-curdling adventures. "Show thyself a workman
							that needeth not be ashamed of his work," is a divine truth here applicable.
						In regard to the second requirement—that of absolute sincerity—our boy
							has here an intuition, unblinded and unconfused by any knowledge of the deceits and
							subterfuges of later life; an intuition that goes straight to the mark and detects
							any simulation which takes the place of absolute sincerity in purpose or in
							expression. Perfect trust cannot exist where there is a sense  of insincerity, or of untruthfulness, and we must possess the confidence
							of those we would influence.
						But, possessed of these, yet lacking a loving sympathy, we are only the life-saving
							service, on one of our dangerous coasts, with all the rescuing appliances at hand,
							cannon and ball, but too short a line to send across the seething waters the rope of
							rescue to the sinking ship. Herein is oftenest failure. It is only a loving sympathy
							that can so place us beside our boys that we will understand their difficulties, their
							peculiarities of character, their various casts of mind. The most divine eulogium I
							have ever heard pronounced of a man, was a truth uttered of one preeminent in his
							influence for good over all, of whatever sex or character, who were brought under the
							inspiration of his personal presence. It was this: "He never made it hard for anyone
							to do right."
						The second underlying principle is, What we think of the boys. As the sculptor saw in
							the rough, coarse, angular block of marble the imprisoned angel, and freed it, so must
							we, but in a far higher sense, see the angel, and with infinite care, lest we mutilate
							or mar, must we help divest it of its swathings. Higher in design is our work, truly.
							The sculptor in the marble must have one faith, that in himself he is able to see the
							capabilities of his material, and that he, with a skilled and steady hand and accurate
							eye is able to execute his design. Our faith must be many fold. First, a faith in God
							that He is able and willing, with his own strength and perfection, to supplement our
							weakness and mistakes. Second, faith in the boy, in the greatness of his nature, in
							his ability to grow, in his capacity  for knowing and
							loving the good and the true; and yet, further, we must have a faith in the fitness of
							Christianity to be comprehended by the child, and its suitability to his needs.
						This view of the question leads unavoidably to another feature of the theme, "How
							shall we hold our big boys? "It is one thing to draw our guests to our tables; it is
							quite another to present food so healthful, yet so inviting, that they will seek to
							continue our guests. This question is duplex in its character. First, What shall we
							not teach? Second, What shall we teach?
						First, let nothing be taught as fundamental with which the boy, as his mind expands,
							shall find to be doubtful or untrue. Perhaps there is no more direct path to
							infidelity than this mistake presents.
						The second question can be answered in a summary almost as brief, but which needs
							later amplification. The lesson topics for the class must be interesting; they must be
							practical; their presentation must not lag. Vitally important is it that we comply
							with these requirements, and that from each lesson there be selected to be taught
							those topics, and only those, which we consider most essential. Then these need the
							most careful study to see under what light and in what aspect these points can be
							presented so as to be the most intelligible to the boy, and also so as to arouse his
							interest and to hold his attention.
						We need, also, to be sure that the teaching is in common, familiar words, and that it
							is clear and definite. Teach much more by questions than by pouring in. Our purpose
							should not be to stamp upon the boy  our individuality,
							but to develop his own. Our purpose should not be to make him observe facts which we
							pour upon him, but to awaken in him a moral consciousness, a spiritual insight that
							will enable him to find for himself what is good and true. Our boy is a free agent;
							God intended him so to be, and the purpose of our teaching should be to make him a
							free agent in the development of what is highest and best in himself; to make him a
							free agent in the suppression in himself of all that is coarse and impure and selfish.
							Instead of discoursing to him on the goodness of God, help him to see that He is good.
							Instead of telling him that God loves him, lead him to see that notwithstanding much
							that may seem to the contrary, God is full of compassionate, understanding sympathy
							for him.
						Under the questioning system, thought is stimulated, and the spirit of intelligent
							inquiry extends beyond the school-room. A lesson sinks much deeper, is valued far
							more, if the learner feels that he has thought it out for himself. In this inductive
							system there is also an advantage to the teacher which no other system gives.
							Unconsciously, the boy throws side lights upon his cast of mind, his lines of thought,
							his habits of life, the circumstances about him, and the influences that move
							him—all invaluable to the observant teacher.
						Another point: There has been already presented those elements to which the boy's
							mind is most impressible. So direct the investigations of the class as to learn from
							the simple Bible narrative and its suggestions the truth that Christ, viewed from
							their human side, possessed all these same elements of character. Develop in their
							minds earnestly, cheerfully, luminously 
							
								The House which Clarkson and Hannah E. Davis built, in Spiceland,
									Indiana
							 
							 as possible, the boyhood and the manhood of Christ. Show
							His obedience, His industry, as the carpenter's son; His patience with the dull round
							of daily duties; that, in that climate of early development, He is thirty before He
							takes up the Father's business, which He avowed to be His mission when He was but
							twelve. Lead the boys to see the lack of sympathy which He must have felt all those
							years; that not one understood Him, and the fewest of the few had any faith; that
							questions to entrap, to turn into ridicule, or to awaken persecution was the life in
							which He grew up.
						Lead the class to see His manliness, His courage, His truthfulness, His sympathy
							everywhere expressed, in His home with His friends, at the marriage, at the funeral,
							with the poor, with the hungry, with the sick, with the maimed; with the feeble, the
							old, the little children, the Roman centurion or the shrinking woman. Develop the
							thought that His almighty strength was never used for any unkind, selfish,
							self-asserting purpose, constantly exercised though it was for the help of others; yet
							He would not make, for himself, one step shorter, one degree smoother or less steep,
							the way over which His weary feet must climb, or less bitter the cup His lips must
							drain; that His almighty power fed the hungry multitudes, lest they grow weary and
							faint by the way, but that it lightened not for His own shoulders one stroke of the
							cruel scourge, or dulled one point of the crown of thorns; that His almighty sympathy
							gave back from the sepulchre to the sorrowing sisters their dear brother, and restored
							to the weeping mother her son, but it gave not to himself one friend, who, amid the
							approaching agony of Gethsemane, could  watch with him
							one hour, or who, before the despised servants of a scorned ruler, would own that they
							had ever known him.
						There is another point: It is not enough to meet our boys in the Sabbath-school
							class. We must, by some means, make their acquaintance in their daily life; an
							occasional friendly call at their homes; an occasional happy evening at ours, where
							subjects of general interest are discussed, or objects to awaken thought are shown
							them. If music can be added, so much the better. I think our lost boys are wanderers,
							mainly, from two causes: First, a lack of intelligent and firm control; and, second,
							an intelligent and helpful sympathy, that makes them feel that we expect well of them.
							If our business men, in their busy lives, could take an evening, occasionally, to
							manifest a sincere and sympathizing interest in the boys, how many a boy might be
							saved. Boys admire and emulate the successful man; and how unfortunate it is that it
							is so much easier for them to come into personal contact with the representatives of
							brute force in the slums than to come into personal contact with the Christian
							gentleman.
						And now a word to our mothers. Not to those to whom the allurements of society offer
							greater attractions than their own homes; they are not present to listen, were I to
							speak. My thought is of the fond, doting, self-sacrificing mother, who obliterates
							herself in the household; that by her personal self-sacrifice her children may be
							possessed more abundantly of leisure, of an education, and of social advantages. I
							know of not any sadder spectacle than this. What is  the
							effect of such training? For answer, look into the ten thousand homes of overworked
							mothers. Their children have seen them drudge until the idea of fitness is associated
							with no other station. The uncouthly made and coarse garment is associated with mother
							as her proper belonging. Mother is authority on nothing. She has been too busy at work
							to cultivate her mind. She is too tired to read, even if the books were at hand. The
							long-neglected music the stiffened fingers cannot recall, so, mother is not taken
							counsel of nor reverenced. Should she venture a suggestion, it is ignored or repulsed
							with positive rudeness. I wish I could say something that would open the eyes of such
							mothers, and confirm their weak resolutions. Do keep yourselves companions of your
							boys and girls. By your efforts at self-culture make yourself an influence in your own
							households. Without this effort, on your part, your husband, by his unvarying
							kindness, may hold your heart loyally to him, but his reverential love, companionship,
							and a controlling power in your own homes, you cannot have.
						May ,we, then, by God's grace blessing our efforts, be wise enough and strong enough
							and self-assertive enough to hold our big boys.
					
					
						AN UNWRITTEN CHAPTER
						Residents of Naples, during the winter of 1887, were witnesses of an event which
							deserves a place in the history of Italy—an incident which could not but stir
							deeply the heart of even a foreigner, and which  also
							illustrates how the Italian nation fosters in her sons the spirit of loyalty and
							devotion.
						At this time the Italians were holding a strip of African territory, bordering the
							Red Sea, with Massowah, in Abyssinia, as their stronghold. Sahati, an outpost, was
							attacked January 25th by Ras Alula, a general under King John of Abyssinia. The
							attacking forces were repulsed with small loss on the part of the Italians, who were
							behind a stockade; however, the commander at Massowah, the next day, dispatched three
							companies and some irregulars to take supplies to the attacked post. Word of this
							movement had been treacherously taken to Ras Alula by some Mohammedan deserters, and
							when about half way to Sahati, in a narrow defile, the Italian troops were suddenly
							attacked. For five hours the unequal contest was waged between five hundred and five
							thousand men, which the enemy admit was their number; the latter armed with Remington
							and Martini rifles, as well as with native weapons. The Abyssinians were checked with
							heavy loss, but every man of the Italian five hundred was wounded, and upon the battle
							field four hundred and ten lay dead. "Every man in his place as if on parade,"
							reported the officer sent three days later to inspect the situation.
						The great heart of Italy was stirred. One million dollars were voted to reinforce the
							troops on the field; fresh regiments were at once sent to Africa, and all of the
							wounded, able to bear removal, were ordered home. On February 21st, the war-ship St.
							Gotardo, with these wounded on board, anchored in the bay of Naples. On the next day
							they were to be removed to a military  hospital in the
							city. The city was as one great household upon whom had fallen the sorrow. February
							22d, the day of landing, was the last day of the carnival, the day of maddest, wildest
							carousal; but not so now. Every sign of revelry had disappeared. The wounded were to
							be borne in ambulances from the ship to the hospital, and, hours before the procession
							appeared, the streets through which it would pass were one surging throng, while from
							the numerous window balconies gazed down countless crowds.
						At length the glittering brass helmets of a brigade were seen slowly clearing their
							way; then ambulance after ambulance followed, separated from one another by platoons
							of men; for not only were the army and navy represented, but every club and guild in
							the city, as well as the private citizen. On the line of march, brilliant was every
							street in its decorations; from the window balconies floated tapestries and silken
							hangings; flags waved; and banners and inscriptions, and palm branches, and a bronze
							chaplet of bay, and wreaths of flowers were borne aloft, while from the balconies fell
							soft showers of leaves of the rose and the bay. Save the deep silence, it was as if
							the King passed by. From many of the uncurtained ambulances, pale, bandaged faces
							answered welcoming smile with answering smile, or by painfully upraised arm with
							uplifted cap. But through it all there smote not the air one viva, one clarion note,
							one bugle blast; the four hundred and ten, dead on the African sands, were
							remembered, and every wall was emblazoned with the record of their heroic death, 
							"Each fell in his place as if on parade." It was Italy's recognition of her sons, for
							all Italy had  suffered. Forty-six out of her sixty-nine
							provinces had men on that field.
						Are we sure for ourselves of so brave a showing? Do we make our own so feel that all
							eyes are upon them in expectation and in recognition of their well doing?
						Shall we not deal kindly with the compatriots of such men?
					
					
						WHAT ISRAEL HAS DONE
						The United States has always been a refuge for the oppressed, but never more
							beneficently than in these recent years, when she has given shelter to men, women and
							children driven from their homes in Europe by the late outbreaks of medieval bigotry
							and persecution, notably in Armenia, Turkey and Russia.
						Among the oppressed who have appealed to our national hospitality, none have come
							with a more interesting history of national glory and humiliation, of human and
							spiritual triumph and suffering. and fiery persecution, of heroic, personal endeavor
							and successful attainment than have the Israelites.
						Of their early national life and much of their later, every ancient and every
							mediaeval history tells something; but information is not so easily at hand concerning
							the individual men, who, in late times, have honored almost every vocation in life
							with their high types of manhood.


						

						At the present time, with these forced immigrants in our midst, victims of crushing
							despotism and blind fanaticism, whose expulsion from their homes is the least part of
							what they have suffered, it is but just to note what Israel has done in recent years
							and what it is now doing.
						If the wretchedness we see calls out our hopeful sympathy, Israel has been before us
							in benefactions extending beyond the narrow limitations of race and sect. While in
							many lands the hand of the oppressor lay heavy upon the Jew and Christian, Moses
							Montefiore was raised up for the deliverance of each. This man had in his veins the
							best Israelitish blood. A brave ancestor of his, Captain Lamago, sailed under Vasco de
							Gama, and brought to Europe the first intelligence sent back by the Admiral, that he
							had found the passage around the Cape of Good Hope.
						The Montefiores were an Italian family, and, like the Disraelis, had come to England
							after Cromwell had broken down the barriers to their entrance.
						Moses Montefiore's marriage, and that of his brother, had put into his easy reach the
							possession of wealth and power; but, though he managed his own business and the
							affairs of others entrusted to him with eminent ability, no suspicion of sharp
							practice ever rested upon him. Free from inordinate greed, after he had accumulated a
							fortune he withdrew from active business and devoted himself to benevolent effort.
							Earnest in his desire to remove the political disabilities of his people, he set on
							foot the movement in England that at length made it possible for an Israelite to
							obtain a seat in the British Parliament, and his nephew, Lona Rothschild, was the
							first to profit by it.


						

						When, in 1840, the terrible persecution sprang up in Damascus and Rhodes, and
							Israelites were maimed, murdered, blinded, and had their children captured and
							starved, it was Moses Montefiore who was soon on the spot in person, backed by his
							great wealth and the power of England to right, so far as it could be done, the
							fearful wrongs.
						After reaching the age of eighty, he undertook his four great philanthropic
							journeys-two to Jerusalem, one to Roumania, and one to Russia. He also visited the
							Sultan of Morocco and secured relief from persecution for both the Israelite and the
							Christian, although, both here and at Damascus, the latter were largely the cause of
							the cruelties practiced upon his people.
						Moses Montefiore helped to build Protestant churches; to found hospitals for the
							Turk, for the Catholic, and to lift up the poor of all races and colors. He lived to
							make his influence felt in Bokara and St. Petersburg and Rome, Timbuctoo and Pekin,
							New York and San Francisco, and to be honored wherever known.
						In statesmanship the Israelite holds a prominence no less surprising, when we
							consider how recently almost every Christian nation had its foot on the Israelitish
							neck. A few years ago, a prominent English author wrote: "At this moment the leader of
							the Liberal party in Germany is a Jew, the leader of the Republican party in France is
							a Jew, and the leader of the Conservatives in England is a Jew." It could have been
							added, the foremost Republican in Spain is also a Jew—the able author, Castelar.
							When this was written, as well as at the present time, Americans were less
							acquainted with the name of Lasker, the Israelitish 
							member of the German Reichstag, the acknowledged head of the great Liberal party, and
							the ablest debater in Germany, than they were with the name of Gambetta, the brilliant
							and daring Republican leader in France, or with Disraeli, who had elbowed his way to a
							place at the head of the English nation, to fill the position with dignity and
							wisdom.
						With the Israelitish bankers and financiers, at least some of them, the world is
							better acquainted, for the name and fame of the Rothschilds have traveled far since
							their founder, Meyer Anselm, lived in the little house, with the sign of the red
							shield, in the Gudengasse in Frankfort. Yet it was here, and no longer ago than 1793,
							when, in our own country, Washington was beginning the second term of his
							administration, that Meyer Anselm received from the affrighted landgrave of Hesse
							Cassel, the jewels and treasures which he saved at the cost of his own, and returned
							to the surprised and grateful owner, principal and interest amounting to a million of
							dollars. Not so well known, but in the same field belongs the name of Achille Fould,
							four times minister of finance under the second empire, and the one to whom is due
							whatever of success that empire can claim. In history, science and literature there
							are numerous and prominent names, of whom there is no time to speak in the limits of
							this paper; and in like manner must be passed over, with mere mention, the histrionic
							world, in which, among the inimitable, are Hebrew women.
						In music there are those as illustrious as Heine in literature, or as Rachael in the
							drama, but, fortunately, whose lives are singularly beautiful and pure. Felix  Mendelssohn and his sister, Fanny, illustrate
							these—the brother, notably. In a home of ideal wealth and culture and
							loveliness, these children were born to grow up in a circle, where were numbered as
							friends—Gœthe, Hegel, Humbolt, Heine, the astronomer Encke, Paganini,
							Moscheles, Shodow. At six, Felix Mendelssohn was a skillful pianist; at nine, he gave
							a public concert in Berlin; at ten, another in Paris; at seventeen, he had found
							himself famous by his overture to Shakespeare's "Midsummer Night's Dream;" at
							thirty-seven, he had finished his immortal works and his life.
						Better, however, than the highest success in the financial, or in the purely
							intellectual world, is the possession of a broad and tolerant spirit. Higher is the
							patient persistence that strives nobly until success is attained, than birth in the
							unearned purple. This spirit, which endures long and is kind, was shown in no usual
							degree by Moses Mendelssohn, the grandfather of the gifted Felix. Born with a
							passionate appetite for knowledge, he not only indulged it so far as rabbinical lore
							extended, but he was most unwisely urged to its gratification. When six years of age,
							he was called to rise and begin his studies at three and four o'clock in the morning.
							The physical result of this system was a permanent and disfiguring curvature of the
							spine; the mental and insatiable desire to feed outside rabbinical pastures was
							intense. To gratify this desire, he followed his teacher to Berlin, where, half
							starved, he continued his studies with unflinching persistence, adding to his other
							branches, for the sake of their broadening influence, a knowledge of German, Latin,
							English and Mathematics. There  came a day when the
							half-starved little hump-back won friends who could help him. A wealthy silk
							manufacturer first made him tutor to his children, then business assistant, and,
							finally, his partner. The height was gained. With more than a competence, there was
							leisure for literary work. His success was immediate and marked. Henceforth he devoted
							himself to literature, and in this field his influence became vividly felt. Of one of
							his books, his "Jerusalem," written alone for his co-religionists, Kant has made this
							criticism:" You have managed to unite with your religion such a spirit of freedom and
							tolerance as it has not had credit for, and such as no other faith can boast. You have
							so powerfully presented the necessity of an unlimited freedom of conscience that, at
							length, on our side, too, the Church must think of it."
						The test that set off the liberal and charitable spirit of Mendelssohn, in the
							highest light, was made by a well-meaning Christian, Lavater, a Swiss clergyman. This
							man had translated, from the French, a book on Christian Evidences, and, thinking its
							arguments unanswerable, he dedicated his translation to Mendelssohn, and challenged
							him to refute it, or to renounce his creed. Circumstances forced Mendelssohn to notice
							the challenge. He was not ready to renounce Judaism; he wished no controversy, and he
							had no desire to proselyte. After some exposition of Judaism, and of his own position
							toward it, he said: "Whoever is not born conformable to our laws, has no occasion to
							live according to them. We, alone, consider ourselves bound to live according to them.
							Suppose there was among my neighbors a Confucius or a Solon. I could consistently,  with my religious principles, love and admire the great
							man, but I should hardly hit on the extravagant idea of converting him. Do I think
							there is a chance of his being saved? I certainly think that he who leads mankind on
							to virtues in this world will not be damned in the next."
						The very few personal histories referred to in this article, as illustrative proofs
							of points taken, have been chosen from the many names in the near past. It only
							remains to be said that, to-day, in numbers and in lustre of achievement, Israel knows
							no abatement. Montefiore lives again in Baron Hirsch, and in our own country in Nathan
							Straus. In 1893, Straus established coal stations in New York, where coal was sold at
							about its actual cost to the poor. He also had brought into the city, pure milk from
							five hundred cows, the health of which had been assured, and this milk, in part, was
							sold fresh, and, in part, was bottled and sterilized and sold for infants' food; a
							quart of pure milk at four cents, a bottle of sterilized milk for one and a half
							cents, and a glass of pure milk at one cent. More than one thousand sick infants were
							fed on the milk during June, July, August and September. After beginning the food, the
							improvement in health was immediate and amazing. During the season, there were 32,000
							bottles of pure milk sold and 34,000 of sterilized milk. In 1894, Mr. Straus added to
							these charities, still others: These were the sale of food at, or below cost, and the
							establishment of lodging houses. Five-cent tickets were sold, which, when offered at
							the stations or lodging houses, would buy a definite amount of some one thing. One
							five-cent ticket would pay for  one night's comfortable
							lodging and a breakfast, or it would pay for six ounces of tea or coffee, or for one
							and one-fourth pounds of sugar, or for two pounds of bread and a bowl of coffee, or
							for twenty-five pounds of coal. In these lodging houses, in fifteen weeks, sixty
							thousand men and women had enjoyed a night's shelter and a breakfast for five cents.
							This was beneficence that asked not its own again, which was bestowed in such a way
							that its recipients knew not that it was in any degree a bounty, and it was extended
							to all races and all sects.
						As an Israelitish statesman in the present, a brother of Nathan Straus has been a
							member of Congress in the United States, and there are now four Hebrews in the British
							Parliament: Baron Henry de Worms, Lord Rothschilds, Lord Battersea, "who is entitled
							to undying gratitude by reason of his gift of the beautiful Battersea park to the
							working classes," and Lord Wandsworth.
						Among the bankers of the world are still the Rothschilds, while in our own country
							are the well-known names of Seligman and Belmont, among a number of others.
						In the musical world are Rubenstein, Joachim, Herman, Levy and Lucca.
						In Europe there are many prominent names in medicine, in the natural sciences and in
							psychology, and in the United States are many more. Professor Seligman, who holds the
							chair of Political Science in Columbia College, and who is the greatest authority in
							our country on taxes; and Jacques Loeb, who is at the head of the department of Animal
							Physiology in the Chicago University, are both eminent Israelites.


						

						In New York city, Professor Adler, the founder of the Society of Ethical Culture; the
							editor of the New York World, a newspaper as widely read as any other in the United
							States; and Nordau, the author of a book on the degeneration of man—a book which
							has been more read and more commented upon than any other of the year, are all
							Israelites.
						In almost every department of work, Israel is now doing what Israel has done.
					
					
						CONCERNING COMMON THINGS
						A Paper Read at the Henry County Teachers' Association
						
						"To him, who in the love of nature holds
							Communion with her visible forms, she speaks
							A various language."
						Often, as we have read these lines, our hearts have responded to them, but it has
							been with the thought of the great and the grand before and around.
						In imagination, Niagara's thunders were in our ears; before our eyes pointed the
							glittering fingers of Alpine peaks, or smiling responsively back, were sunny Southern
							lands.
						But does not Whittier give, to the words of his friend, their truer interpretation,
							when he says: " * * * He who wanders wildest lifts
								No more of beauty's jealous veil
								Than he who from his doorway sees
								The miracle of flowers and trees."
							 Observing land owners note that their locust groves
							enrich the soil upon which they stand, and plant accordingly. Is this, then, the
							purpose of the leaves? No, To this dooryard view our vision is oftenest limited. What
							has it for us? Nothing, if looked upon with cold indifference; little, if with only
							unloving curiosity; much, very much, if with honest, loving inquiry.
						The autumn has just passed; an autumn like many another that has preceded. The bright
							leaves have drifted at our feet; we have remarked how the frosts have tinted them. We
							have gathered a few and pressed them for later decoration; the bulk of them have been
							raked into heaps and burned; the winds have scattered their ashes; and, with this,
							all thought of leaves has dropped from our memory. Now, were we to think of it, would
							we not remember that, in late summer, before ever a frost came, an occasional swamp
							maple had hung out a branch, swathed in the most gorgeous scarlet. That, from the
							beautiful appearance of the tree and its branches, this was no hectic splendor, but
							rather a token of full fruition, as is the russet of the ripening grain? Had
							observation and investigation proceeded, it would have been found that the ripening
							process in the leaves of other trees than those of the swamp maple had been
							progressing. That in some it had advanced in the breaking up of the green coloring
							matter of the leaf, so far as to give predominance to the yellow; in others, to the
							red coloring matter; while, in yet others, the dissolution was finished, and only the
							brown leaf tissues remained conspicuous. The frost only accelerated, and, in some
							instances, intensified the work begun. To the nimble fingers of the same agent do we
							attribute the de-robing of the trees, unobservant of the fact that, long before the
							arrival of this courier of winter, the fallen leaves "Had rustled to the eddying  gust and to the rabbit's tread." In this the frost had
							accelerated the process, but it was only acceleration. In proof, observe that the
							trees, which in the evening are mantled in scarlet and gold, and in the morning uplift
							only naked branches, show not one unhealed scar upon them all. The preparation for the
							excising process had long been begun. How may we study this secret surgery of nature,
							and prove it self-mutilation? Readily, by means at hand: Pluck a long, compound leaf
							of sumach or walnut; fold it in damp, not wet, paper, and lay away for twenty-four or
							thirty-six hours; then, with good eyes, or a microscope, if you possess either,
							examine carefully the point of union of the leaf with the long, central leaf stalk, a
							line can be detected extending across this point of union, and on each side of it will
							be seen forming a row of corky cells. Replace your leaf in its moist coverings, and
							wait for another day or two. Now, when you examine your leaf, as you lift it, every
							leaflet falls from its central stem. Nature has completed her work before your eyes;
							you are let into her occult process. The frost, you observe, like any other
							mischief-maker, only makes the most of a presented opportunity, and inserts his ice
							wedges in a fissure already forming. Self-mutilation has been the term applied to
							this. Is it, or rather is it not self-preservation?" A giving that is a receiving much
							more abundantly." Let us see what this self-despoliation means. Again, at hand, are
							the facilities for the investigation, and furnished by nature herself. When the leaves
							have first fully expanded, but before they have yet hardened, in June, "when, if ever,
							come perfect days," gather a quantity of leaves, 
							definite by weight, burn them and weigh the ashes. Note the weight of the leaves
							consumed and the weight of the ashes. In the autumn, complete the experiment. Take the
							fallen leaves of the same kind, a like amount as before, and burn and weigh the ashes.
							Note the difference in the weight of the ashes. In the spring, scarcely perceptible
							was the mineral matter which the ashes represented; in the autumn it forms the chief
							bulk of the leaf. In the spring the immersion, for a few weeks, of the leaf in
							rainwater, would have so macerated the cellular tissue of the leaf, that its removal
							could have been effected by the thumb and finger, leaving intact the delicate lace
							work of the woody fibre, the framework of the leaf. In autumn the leaf drifts down
							into any neighboring pool, and lies there until the following spring, without a
							symptom of disintegration, so filled is every cell with an undecaying mineral deposit.
							Chemical analysis shows this mineral to be the plant's food. This surplus, her fallen
							leaves restore to the ground for next year's supply.
						Observing land owners note that their locust groves enrich the soil upon which they
							stand, and plant accordingly. Is this, then, the purpose of the leaves? No, not
							primarily, nor principally. The leaves answer, in their functions, to lungs, stomach
							and pores of the skin.
						Persistently strip from its stems the leaves of a plant, and it will die; coat them
							above and below with varnish, and the result is the same. Through the vast surface of
							its multitudinous leaves, and their intercellular passages, do the fluids of the plant
							circulate, enriching themselves by absorption and digestion and evaporation until,
							changed into life-sustaining and cell-building  sap, they
							descend through the plant. The result of this evaporation is the presence in the
							leaves of the abundant mineral deposit. One has only to investigate his tea-kettle to
							learn the effect of evaporation of water. The vapor goes, the mineral stays.
						The usefulness of the old leaves, so far as their prime functions are concerned, now
							become apparent. Hence nature's excision of useless and burdensome members. The giving
							and the receiving have been referred to, but all has not been told. In their natural
							locations, under every taller shrub or tree, nestle innumerable smaller, more tender
							members of the plant kingdom. The mantles of leaves, thus dropped by the sturdier
							members of the family, form for these less hardy a most serviceable and needed
							protection. How wise the plan in nature ! How infinite the foresight ! How ruthlessly
							and recklessly we interfere with her, and how we suffer for it ! We rake the leaves
							and burn them by the highway, and the tender things die from lack of their protection,
							and the highway is enriched instead of the soil of our gardens. From our dooryard we
							see great gaps in the woodland. We have cut down our forests, and the sun drinks from
							the bare land its moisture; and drouth ensues, and harvests fail and streams dry up,
							and navigation is impeded, and extremes of heat and cold result from the absence of
							the modifying influence of moisture; and we say, how hot the summer, how severe the
							winter!
						But, returning to our dooryard trees, in their bared boughs we find exchange, but not
							loss. Flower and fruit and leaf are gone; but this gives us only better opportunities
							to observe the texture and color of bark  on trunk and
							limbs, as well as the individuality in modes of growth and branching. The buds,
							themselves, deserve a chapter, where now there can be but brief reference. Make a
							cross section of a bud; note the texture of the enclosing scales; their varnish, to
							keep out cold and moisture; the space between them filled with soft hairs or resin;
							their position and number and mode of contact with each other, for these denote how
							the leaves will be arranged on the boughs in summer, the number of rows they will form
							on the stem, their relative position and distance in regard to each other. Within the
							bud will also be found the rudiments of leaves and flowers for next year's
							requirements. We learn, too, from the bare trees, something concerning neighbors whose
							acquaintance we had not made, or at least between whom and ourselves there had not
							been any exchange of social hospitalities. Now, these we can investigate without
							breach of courtesy due, or embarrassment to owners.
						One of these dwellings, which I have had the pleasure of examining, was a rare
							reflection of intelligent reasoning on the part of the builder. It was an oriole's
							nest, and suspended, as is usual, between two twigs. These, however, diverged so
							rapidly that, when the work was finished, the little architect found the longest side
							sagged. To remedy this, the bird had woven into the fabric of the nest, low down on
							the side, one end of a sewing thread—No. 8, I should judge; the other end he
							took to a twig above the nest, but which extended out over the sagging side, around
							this the bird drew the thread until no slack remained; then he wound it several times
							about the  little limb and tied it in a single knot,
							with an end remaining so long that it would not slip. This nest was found several
							years ago, and, at the time, an account of the nest and a picture, taken from a
							photograph sent, were published in St. Nicholas. I have the nest yet.
						On the bare boughs and the trunk can be found various kinds of chrysalises, and one
							never wearies in watching the beautiful moths emerge.
						There is also a front-yard and a back-yard botany, to which the proper limits of this
							paper preclude even reference, as well as the door-yard geology, for which your very
							paving stones furnish illustrated pages of corals and other submarine animals, whose
							home was here when all our now pleasant landscape of undulating field and wood was
							not, but, in its stead, a wild waste of surging waters.
						But there is another phase, in this intimacy with nature, which meets a want of the
							soul as nothing else does. It is the solace and the assurance that it brings. Even a
							winged seed, escaping from the safe but fettering cell, and wandering aimless and
							uncertain, buffeted and tossed by every wind until, with silken wings broken and
							crushed, it sinks to earth to lie there buried and lost in the darkness; even this
							weak, frail thing brings to the heart a comfort and a hope which the preacher may not.
								
									Yea, soul of mine, from these
									Waifs on the passing breeze,
									Learn faith and hope.
								
								
									Borne on this silken wing,
									Hid in this weak, frail thing,
									Are leaf and bloom.
								
								
								
									The winds that beat and toss
									Bring neither harm nor loss,
									But higher boon.
								
								
									What though on earth they lie,
									These rovers of the sky,
									With broken wing.
								
								
									'T is with new life to spring,
									Rare bloom and leaf to bring,
									Where tint and fragrance cling,
									A glorious thing.
								
					
					
						A TRIP THROUGH HOLLAND IN 1896
						The beauty of the Rhine, the grandeur of the Alps, the ethereal loveliness of Italy,
							have been so often written about, that even he who has not seen these lands, feels
							himself to be familiar with them. It is not so with Holland, a country where the land
							is so nearly water, and the water so nearly land, that in portions the one can not be
							stood upon, nor the other swam in; land that would seem unstableness itself, yet
							which, behind its strong barriers, laughs at the sea that would again snatch it to
							itself. A region whose muddy character would seem to defy cleanliness, the only land
							where this virtue has become a fault.
						A land whose people are usually thought of as sluggish, yet who have withstood,
							successfully, both the elements of nature and the tyrants of the world; a land, the
							masses of whose people are considered coarse and inartistic, yet who has given the
							world such  patriots and heroes as William the Silent;
							the counts, Horn and Egmont, John Van Oldenbarneveld and the DeWitts; such navigators
							as Houtman; such scholars as Grotius and others of world-wide fame; such Admirals as
							Tromp, DeWitt, DeRuyter; such painters as Reubens and Rembrant.
						A land whose singular picturesqueness and beauty constantly invite the visitor to
							extend his journey farther into it; whose customs are a perpetual source of interest,
							and which, when he must turn from it, he leaves with reluctance and the desire to
							revisit. Such a land is Holland, which is entered from Antwerp by a route through the
							western part of the province of North Brabant. Here the striking peculiarity of the
							country is at once presented—the strange intermixture of land and water. In this
							section the insular character is produced, in part, by the anastomosing branches of
							the Maas and the Scheldt, and by the Hollandich Diep, an arm of the sea. This last bay
							is at the point where the railroad crosses it, one and five-eighth miles in width, but
							the stone piers, which support the bridge, extend so far into the water, that the
							actual length of the bridge is but seven-eighths of a mile. This structure, begun in
							1868 and finished in 1871, is a proof of the engineering skill of the Hollanders, both
							on account of its size and the difficulties to be overcome in securing firm
							foundations in such deeply yielding ground. The bridge rests on fourteen iron arches,
							each with a span of a hundred and ten yards, and a height that is fifteen feet above
							the level of the highest tides. For the passage of the large vessels, two swinging
							bridges are provided on the south side. The total cost was  5,709,000 florins; one dollar of our money equals 2.36 florins. From this
							bridge, on either side, is a fine view of green, level land; of blue, level water,
							over which the train seems speeding in air, as the bridge is invisible.
						To the right the bay widens out into the Biesboch (a reed forest), a district
							comprising an area of forty square miles and consisting of one hundred islands. The
							Biesboch was formed in 1421 by a destructive inundation, which destroyed seventy-two
							towns and villages and the lives of 100,000 persons. The same flood separated from the
							main land a small district on which stands the city of Dordrecht, the first important
							Dutch town on this route. The largest ocean vessels come up to its very walls, and the
							great rafts from the German forests, on the upper Rhine, are here broken up, and sawed
							into lumber by the numerous windmills in the vicinity.
						In the history of Holland, Dordrecht also holds an important place, "As in 1572 the
							first assembly of the independent States of Holland was held here, which resulted in
							the foundation of the Republic of the United Dutch Provinces." A century later the
							offices of Commander-in-Chief and Admiral of Holland were conferred upon William III,
							Prince of Orange; and in 1618 and 1619 a great Protestant synod met here to compromise
							between the adherents of Calvin and Zwingli.
						From Dordrecht the railroad crosses a branch of the Maas, the island of Ijsselmonde,
							and the Maas itself, before entering Rotterdam. At this city and near by are carried
							on numerous and large industries,  as machine works,
							salmon fishing, shipbuilding and iron works. Rotterdam itself is the second largest
							town of Holland, and contains 200,000 inhabitants. The city is intersected by numerous
							canals, each large enough for the passage of heavily-laden East Indiamen, and 6,000
							vessels is the average annual number visiting the city. The cargoes are coffee, sugar,
							rice, etc. Over the shop doors such commodities are announced as "Colonial
							products."
						Passing on to The Hague, the next important town is Delft, the birthplace of Grotius,
							but more frequently remembered in connection with porcelain. The manufacture of the
							Delft ware, once so important, but which, for a time, languished, has now revived;
							but the purse must be large to secure even a small sample. Delfthaven, of Pilgrim
							interest, lies to the south on the Maas. A melancholy interest invests the imperial
							palace, as in it William the Silent was assassinated July 10, 1584. In the principal
							Kerk stands a magnificent monument to the memory of the Prince, and under it rests,
							beside him, his wife and son Maurice. Here is also a modest monument to the renowned
							Grotius.
						The Hague, the usual northern terminus of tourist travel, has been the capital of the
							Dutch States since the sixteenth century, and, by reason of its wide and handsome
							streets and large, imposing buildings, is the first city in the kingdom. That the
							Dutch show the vices, as well as the virtues of their fellow-men, was shown by their
							attitude toward this city. Although The Hague was the political capital" of the
							country from the sixteenth century onwards, also was the  political center of all the important transactions during the seventeenth and
							eighteenth centuries, so violent were the jealousies entertained by the Dutch towns
							entitled to vote in the assembly of the States, that The Hague was denied a voice in
							that body; and because it was not thus represented as towns were entitled to be, it
							remained "the largest village in Europe," until Louis Bonaparte, when King of Holland,
							conferred upon it its hitherto denied privileges. In the history of the Dutch
							Republic, The Hague has been the scene of some dark tragedies. Here, near the
							Parliament building, in 1619, occurred the execution of the influential and noble John
							Von Oldenbarneveld, Prime Minister of Holland, who had, by opposition of views,
							incurred the displeasure of Prince Maurice of Orange. Near the Parliament house also.
							occurred the savage murder of the DeWitt brothers in 1672. Their prison has been kept
							without change. Their room is shown, and on its walls are to be seen the portraits of
							the truly noble and handsome men; also pictures of their horrible mode of death. In
							other rooms in this prison are shown instruments of torture: branding-irons,
							thumb-screws, the rack, the wheel, and other instruments so diabolically ingenious in
							their methods of torture, that their names give no suggestion of their use, and any
							description of them would be revolting. "The good old days" of Spanish rule and
							inquisitorial arguments are, happily for Holland, a thing forever of the past. It is
							pleasant to turn from these places to the large and fine picture gallery, founded by
							Prince John Maurice in the seventeenth century. The two most famous pictures are: Paul
								 Potter's Bull, and one from Rembrandt's school of
							anatomy, painted by the master for the Amsterdam guild of surgeons. It represents the
							celebrated anatomist, Tulp, engaged in explaining the anatomy of the arm of a corpse.
							The skill of the painter shows itself in the fact that the attention is directed to
							the living, although the dead is in the foreground, and, by its peculiar hue, shows it
							was painted from nature as truly as were the portraits of the living.
						The palace, although here in the capital, is a very unimposing building, with a front
							of yellow plaster. Before it stands a fine equestrian statue of William, Prince of
							Orange. In the northwest part of the town is a park, in which stands the national
							monument, begun in 1863 and completed in I869. In the Nieuewe Kerk are the tombs of
							the DeWitts, and also of Spinosa, whose house is near by. One and a half miles from
							The Hague, and situated on the North Sea, is Sheveningen, called a village, although
							it contains nearly 15,000 inhabitants. Formerly only a fishing village, it is now a
							favorite watering place for north Europe, 20,000 visitors annually frequenting it. The
							beach here is beautiful in its view, and its sands are firm and smooth. On the one
							hand, are the brilliantly lighted hotels; on the other, the sloping beach; by the sea,
							vessels of various sizes are drawn ashore. At a safe distance from the serf stand the
							bath-wagons and the curious willow chairs with covers, in which sit, protected, the
							pleasure or health seekers. The most interesting part of the country, however, is
							beyond this, in what is called North Holland, a section enclosed by the North and
							Zuyder Zee and the North Sea Canal.  Much of the land is
							from twelve to fifteen feet below the level of the sea, from which it is protected by
							the dunes and by lofty embankments. One of these dykes— the great Helder
							Dyke—is about five miles in extent; along its top, which is twelve feet wide,
							runs a good road. The dyke extends down into the sea for 200 feet. The highest tide
							never reaches its summit, nor does the lowest ever lay bare its foundations. To
							strengthen it further, huge bulwarks project out, at intervals, into the sea. The
							entire dyke is built of Norwegian granite. The land, from which the sea is thus shut
							out, has frequently been reclaimed from the ocean, and the process by which the work
							has been accomplished shows the courage and persistence of the people. The first step
							is to erect the dyke to shut out the water, then that which is within is pumped out
							into a canal at a higher level, this, in turn, is pumped by windmills into another and
							yet higher canal; and so the work is continued until a level is reached at which the
							water can run into the sea. Expensive as is the process, the fertility of the
							reclaimed land makes it profitable. And now the plan is being discussed of thus
							converting the Zuyder Zee into tillable land. Should this be done, Holland will have
							gained a new province of 687 square miles. In North Holland is the town of Alkamar,
							renowned in the struggle of the Dutch with the Spaniards for its successful
							resistance. The town is a weekly market for cheese; half the province sends its cheese
							here, and 5,000 tons are annually weighed in this town. Across the country to Hoorn it
							is level, as usual, except the canals are sometimes lower than the surrounding
							country. Men often draw the canal-boats, and dogs the road-carts.
					

					
					
						ASCENT OF VESUVIUS
						We were passing down the Italian coast, from Genoa to Naples, and, although we were
							yet several hours from port, we had long been carefully scanning, with our glasses,
							every separate mountain peak in that direction, in the hope of being the first to
							distinguish the volcano. But it was a pleasant Milanese fellow-passenger who earliest
							recognized the mountain familiar to him, and called our attention to a faint column of
							white smoke which rose from a dim, cloudlike cone on the horizon. As the vessel neared
							port, the smoke increased in volume and density, and, when she cast anchor, the
							mountain, although eight miles distant, seemed close at hand. During the winter which
							followed, it was an unfailing pleasure to observe the volcano in its ever-varying
							aspects, for only its conical outline and double-coned summit remained always the
							same. The color of the mountain changed with every atmospheric variation, but most
							often a pale bluish, lilac, opalescent veil hung over it, deepening in tone with heavy
							shadows over every ravine, and brightening with reflected light over every ridge.
							Almost continuously arose from the higher cone a pillar of cloud, most often whiter
							than any fuller on earth could white it. Sometimes this column lost its erect form,
							and hung a white, undulating, billowy wreath below and around the pale purple cone;
							again it would rise, a column of cloud as before, but dense and black as the
							protecting pillar of the Israelites. But the most weird and sinister aspect of the
							mountain was on moonless nights. Then we climbed the vomero, to have, from  its top, an unobstructed view; not of the soft, blue,
							vaporous sky and its myriad stars; not of the silent city below, sloping down to the
							sea, and its many lights, but of the inky blackness, beyond the city, which
							impenetrably covered sea and mountain. This darkness held our eyes with a strange
							fascination as we watched for what might appear within it. Nor had we long to wait
							until, in its midst, two great fiery, yawning jaws slowly gaped wide open, seemed to
							pause a moment, and then slowly closed and vanished in the darkness. Again and again
							the weird phenomenon repeated itself, at intervals, while we watched and waited. It
							was the volcano erupting molten pumice; the fiery mass would rise high in air,
							apparently pause a moment, and then fall back into the crater.
						In the near presence of the mountain we found ourselves seeking, in all possible
							ways, to refresh our memories concerning all that we had ever known of it, and to add
							to this knowledge all the reliable information we could obtain.
						From the earliest existing records, there was a time when verdure clothed Vesuvius
							from base to summit; when, over the rich soil of its slopes, vineyards and cultivated
							fields and villages succeeded one another, and when its numerous inhabitants dwelt in
							plenty and without forebodings of danger. Even the revolting Sparticus and his
							fellow-gladiators found shelter in its vine-hung crater. How general was this feeling
							of security; the ruins of Herculaneum and Pompeii and the signs of wealth and luxury
							they contain are in evidence. Only from its external indications, as its general
							contour, the nature of its rocks and soil, had  its real
							character been suspected, until the year 79 of the Christian Era. Then a great cloud,
							shaped like the umbrella or stone-pine tree, appeared above the mountain, the
							precursor of three days of blinding darkness, relieved only by flashes of lightning.
							The earth rocked and the waves receded from the shore, while hot pumice stone showered
							on the cities, into which and over which poured torrents, either of boiling mud or
							molten lava, until they vanished from the sight of men. In Bulwer's "Last Days of
							Pompeii," a minute and vivid and historically accurate account of this event is
							given.
						For a thousand years after this the volcano continued in a state of occasional
							irruption, then the fires died away until the sixteenth century. In 1506 activity
							recommenced, and still continues, but only at intervals with destructive violence. At
							present, many towns are at its base, some over the site of the destroyed cities, while
							scattering houses and a meteorological station are on its lower slopes. The lava
							streams, which have gushed out in recent years, have not flowed far down, and the only
							lives known to have been destroyed were those of a few engineering students from the
							University of Naples and some local scientists. How these perished is not exactly
							known. It is supposed that they either stood too near the fissure from which the lava
							was flowing and were killed by an explosion of gas, or that they neglected to watch
							the onward flow of the lava and let themselves be surrounded by it.
						The plain of the Campania Felice, out of which Vesuvius rises, is a most fertile
							district, and all around  the base of the mountain, and
							for miles away, it is covered with vegetable gardens and fields of various kinds of
							grain. Vesuvius is really one of several mountains forming a spur of the Appenines,
							yet it is so distant from its fellows that it rises alone, a conical mass, out of the
							midst of the plain of the Campania. Its base is about thirty miles in circumference,
							and its height, which has varied after each eruption, is now 4,253 feet. The summit
							looks as if the apex had been blown off, and had left a double cone, one slightly
							lower than the other. The depression between these has been named the Atrio del
							Cavallo, the valley of the horses, because those who ascend the mountain from the
							Pompeiian side, ride as far as this valley, and leave their horses here until they
							return.
						The day chosen for the ascent promised all that an Italian day should, as in the very
							early morning our curreccelli rumbled through the narrow, lava-paved streets to the
							railway station, two miles away. In this short ride, from Naples to Pompeii, the road
							passes over Herculaneum, through Portici, Resina, Torre del Grecco, Torre del
							Annunciatto and other little towns, strung upon it as beads upon a thread. One wishes
							he were able to sit on each side of the railway carriage at once, and to look in
							opposite directions at the same moment of time. At Portici the railroad passes through
							the courtyard of the magnificent palace, built in the eighteenth century by Charles
							III. It stands at the head of the bay, and is now the property of the municipality of
							Naples. At Resina, which we pass through next, a workman, in 1748, while digging for a
							well, exhumed a statue and several other relics. Examination  proved that Resina had been built upon the tufa and lava covering
							Herculaneum. In this land "Even cities have their graves." A
							little way beyond Resina we catch a glimpse, upon our left, of a long, low, rambling
							house, with the usual plastered walls, yellow tinted, and almost hidden among the
							trees. It is the palace of the ex-Khedive of Egypt. On the opposite side of the road
							are his bath houses. On another occasion I saw, in two landaus, several Orientally
							dressed, dark-eyed women, with faces partially concealed by veils, and I was told that
							they belanged to the Khedive's harem at this palace.
						Torre del Grecco affords an example of the insistence with which the Italian clings
							to the home of his choice, and also his indifference to familiar peril. Nine times has
							this city been overwhelmed by the volcano, and as many times has it been rebuilt. It
							was last destroyed in 1858. It is now a flourishing town, but some of the streets have
							not been excavated, and in them the lava stands yards deep. This town is the home of
							many of the coral fishers of the Mediterranean, and, at the proper season, we might
							see the coral, in its rough state, piled up like cords of wood. On this coast is found
							the rose coral, which has been so valued for jewelry. But the fishers are now at home,
							we see by their boats beached on the shore. The sand here is comminuted lava, and,
							instead of being white and glistening, as is usual, it is as black and shining as
							would become some dark Plutonian shore; and we involuntarily listen for the waves to
							hiss and burn to vapor as they strike it, instead of lapsing, as they do, in soft,
							foaming lines.


						
						
						
							Interior View of Mrs. Davis' Room, in the University of North
								Dakota
						

						
						The Campania stretches to the east, along the road from Naples to Pompeii, and we can
							see the houses of the vegetable gardens, like little round-topped boxes, here and
							there in the fields. The windows in them are few and small, and there is no vestage of
							dooryard, nor tree of shelter, nor even of a cultivated flower. The water is drawn
							from the wells by the same appliance that Solomon referred to, when he wrote in
							Ecclesiastes about "the pitcher being broken at the fountain and the wheel at the
							cistern."
						We passed one of the many castles, built along this coast by Charles V, to protect
							his vessels from the Corsairs. Here ships, chased by these pirates, could find shelter
							under the fortified walls. At another point, distant, but plainly in view, was a
							castle built out in the sea, its location giving its name, Castella Mare. The place is
							a favorite summer resort on account of the excellence of its climate. Near it stood
							Stabeae, the town destroyed by Sulla. The site of Stabeae was occupied by villas and
							pleasure grounds, when Pompeii was destroyed, and it was there that Pliny the Elder
							brought assistance to his friends, and lingered to study the phenomena of the
							eruption, fatally long for himself.
						The last town on the route, which has any special interest, is Torre del Annunciatto.
							Here are the large establishments for the manufacture of macaroni; but, if one enjoys
							that article of food, it is wise not to examine closely, here, into the process by
							which it is made. At length, the station Pompeii is called, as if it were Grand Forks
							or Fargo, and one leaves the train with a feeling of the strange incongruity which the
							lapse of time can bring. Here one sees the evidence  of
							a striking change in surface level. At the time it was destroyed, the walls of Pompeii
							were washed by the Mediterranean, now the town is a mile inland. But the matchless
							beauty of the location is unchanged. To the east, and circling in a broad curve toward
							the south and west, extends a spur of the Appenines, until it ends in the long
							promontory of Sorento. These snow-covered mountains were blue and purple and rose
							colored, as the light played over them and dappled with shadow and the dim blue green
							of distant forests. To the west the blue waters, dotted with white sails, scintillated
							in the sun until, in the vapory, opalescent distance, sea and sky blended in one. To
							the northwest, beyond Vesuvius, the fortress-shaped island of Capri rose out of the
							sea. One might well lose himself in such a vision, were it not for the cracking of
							hack driver's whips and the low, guttural moaning of the beggar at his elbow. At first
							we follow smooth country lanes, between tufa walled-in vineyards. This tufa—the
							building material for fence, palace, or hovel —is a pale yellow brown stone,
							formed of volcanic ashes compacted under water. Volcanic upheaval has lifted it into
							reach, and it is easily shaped with an adz, but it becomes hard by exposure to the
							air. The rough tufa blocks have given lodging to dust and seeds, and pretty green
							things are sprouting in the crevices and wild vines are drooping over the walls, and
							agile little lizards, curious as to our movements, shyly watched us until we were near
							them, and then scampered out of sight. These vineyards soon disappeared as we
							ascended, and all evidences of cultivation quickly end, and then come expanses of
							black, disintegrating lava,  with scant bunches of
							parched grass and here and there a stunted, sickly yellow green pine. Then all verdure
							ceased, nay, all life; not a tiny plant nor a blade of grass sprang from a sheltering
							cleft in the rock; not a bird soared in the sky; not an insect fluttered in the air.
							We were alone amidst absolute and chaotic desolation. Man seemed to be the only living
							creature so inquisitive or so reckless as to venture, of his own free will, into the
							fastnesses of this mountain. As we pause to rest, we have a bird's-eye view of the
							world left below. We see in the northwest the low rim of the sea, with its fringe of
							towns ending in Naples. South of this city a bar marks Capri; west of it a dot, the
							island of Misida; another dot, Procida; a larger still, Ischia. Here, in 1882, 1,100
							of its people were instantly killed by a volcanic explosion under its city of
							Cassamicciola, when, at the same time, on the other side of the little island not a
							wave rose higher than usual.
						The difficulties of ascending are such that we are glad when we find ourselves in the
							Atrio del Cavallo, where the horses must be left. Here we are besieged with offers of
							assistance; some would carry us in a sort of sedan chair; others would pull, push, or
							lift us over the difficult path. This question settled, as we think, our guide leads
							on, but over what a path. The clamorers follow, evidently thinking we will change our
							minds and employ more of them. We plod stubbornly and silently on. The crowd is
							convinced, at length, and leave us to our decision, when, presto! the treacherous
							guide, unable to play into the hands of his countrymen, turns into a path altogether
							easier than  the one we were in. But, even then, we are
							obliged to rest very often, for we grow deadly tired. We rest, and try again, and
							rest. The mountain seems to grow higher every moment, and to reach into the very
							heavens. We cannot now even think as we climb, the effort takes the last atom of our
							strength. We sit down and debate with ourselves; shall we continue the effort to reach
							the top, or shall we give it up? To give it up will make another failure easier; if we
							give it up we shall bitterly regret it, when we are far away and the weariness is
							forgotten. We look up and see others have reached the top and are coming down, and we
							are startled to see that they are leaning on their Alpine stocks and coasting down the
							steep incline with the speed of the wind, and we feel that, when we reach the top, we
							shall not be so foolish as to come down in that way. We are rested now, and we have
							decided to continue the ascent; but there are many more halts. At length, we observe
							that in places the rocks are hot, and that sulphurous gases are issuing from crevices
							in our path. Then comes a space of steeper, harder climbing than we have had before,
							and then we halt to hear the guide say we have reached the top. We stand very still
							for a moment, to regain our breath— and our thought. Since we left the horses we
							have been climbing almost two long hours, with only short intervals of rest; and now
							we stand beside that crater, out of which, months ago, we had seen from the vessel's
							deck little puffs of vapor on the horizon's edge; from the crater, day by day and week
							by week, the pillar of cloud had ascended, and from which, now, after a slight
							explosive sound, there rises a red-hot  shaft of molten
							pumice higher and higher until, when many feet in air, it spreads out sheaf-like at
							the upper edges and topples in red-hot fragments at our feet— the dragon with
							the fiery jaws which we had climbed the vomero to see.
						The guide leads us now to the windward side, to be out of danger from the glowing
							lava, and we stand beside a basin or caldron a thousand feet across and five hundred
							feet in depth. The friable projecting edge, around the crater, shelves rapidly away on
							the inner side; how rapidly, we could not know. I threw myself upon the ground, feet
							outward from the edge, and looked over. Far down in the abyss smoke and vapor, red
							from the reflected fires below, curled and surged. Horrible mutterings and groanings
							and thundering and clanking, as of chains violently rattled together, continually
							arose from the depths as if the giant of the ancient myth were struggling in his
							fetters. Mingling with these sounds were others more appalling, to which there is
							nothing that can be likened, and through all and over all rose the fierce, rushing,
							hissing sound of surging flames. The sulphurous gases crisped my lips, and scorched my
							throat and nostrils, and almost stifled me. I reached out my hand blindly over the
							edge, and from it broke off a fragment sparkling with yellow incrustations of sulphur,
							and then gladly left the place.
						The guide now led us rapidly over a small area, literally filled with crevices, from
							which were issuing jets of sulphurous gas, where a moment's lingering would scorch our
							clothes and shoes. Thirty minutes sufficed for the descent. The guide gave me his arm
								 and said, "hold it firmly." He leaned upon his Alpine
							stock and stiffened his joints. The fine, yielding pumice stone was now of avail, as
							our feet sank ankle deep in it, it checked the too rapid descent while we coasted down
							the cone. One of our company forgot to look out for stones, and in a moment we saw
							him, far below, dusting the ashes from his clothes.
						The horses had stood unblanketed, and were now very stiff in their joints. They added
							to this a like infirmity of temper, and, finally, refused to even walk. The difficulty
							was remedied in the usual way. Assistants were forthcoming so that each horse could
							be led, and in this inglorious way we accomplished the descent— glad that we had
							had this glimpse into the awful mysteries of the earth, and glad that the adventure
							was safely through with, feeling, also, with a deeper awe and added power, "Great and
							marvelous are thy works."
						A few days later I stood beside the Mediterranean and looked upon Vesuvius again. The
							mountain rose as majestic, as awe-inspiring, enveloped in as unperturbable a calm as
							ever. The silence and stillness might have rested upon it, it seemed, unbroken, since
							creation's morning.
						Did I remember, or did I dream? Involuntarily, I put my hand in the pocket of my
							ulster. My fingers touched something. A little mass of powder lay in one corner. It
							was the fragment of crystal-covered lava I had broken from the edge of the crater.
					

					
					
						AT HOME AND ABROAD CONTRASTS BETWEEN CIVILIZATION IN EUROPE AND
							AMERICA
							Read at the Meeting of the Henry County Historical Society, April 7, 1888
						
						This subject, to the intelligent, thoughtful mind, has an intrinsic interest that
							well repays investigation. But, when it is recognized how fruitful such an
							investigation may be in useful suggestions, in warning inferences, the careful
							examination of the whole broad field becomes not merely a pleasure, but a duty
							incumbent upon us. The facts of social well-being and happiness, and the development
							of the human mind and its faculties in each individual, all of which we sum up under
							the one word, civilization, depend upon two inseparable circumstances. First, the
							progress of society; second, the progress of individuals. Understanding this to be the
							meaning of the term, then the sure indices of civilization of a people are: Their
							methods of government; their institutions—educational, humane and benevolent;
							the proportional expenditures for government purposes, and the effect of these on the
							condition of the country and on the physical, social, moral and intellectual condition
							of the people. To compare the civilization at home with that we find abroad, is to
							compare our country with Europe in all these particulars and in more. It becomes
							evident, then, that to institute any such comparison with fairness, we must take into
							the estimate the condition of  not one country, but of
							several; for, while it is true there is in some respects a similarity in the
							civilization of the various countries of Europe, there are also wide differences in
							many important particulars.
						The first point considered may be the difference in the purposes of government, and
							in the methods by which governments are sustained. It is presumable that every
							American, whose ancestors periled all to throw off a monarchy and to establish a
							republic, believes in a republic. The same ought to be true of every foreigner, who
							seeks our land of freedom and plenty, to escape from the old world's tyranny and lack
							of bread. But there is a wide difference between an unintelligent belief in the fact
							and a clear knowledge of the differences between the purposes of a government made by
							the people for the people, and one whose entire machinery is, first of all, to build
							up and maintain one ruling family and a comparatively few ruling nobles, while the
							millions are made to be only a part of this machinery. Possibly, we may not realize,
							either, the difference in the means by which such governments are upheld. I refer
							directly to the difference between their military system and ours. In the various
							monarchies of Europe, in a time of professed peace, between three and four millions of
							soldiers stand ready for war, and, if need be, the number could be more than doubled.
							The United States equals in size the whole continent of Europe, but the United States
							has a standing army of but 25,000 men; 25,000 men is but the one-fortieth of
							1,000,000. Europe has, as I said, between three and four millions in its standing
							armies. Each monarch has its navy, the construction  of
							which costs millions of dollars, and the maintenance of which costs millions more. The
							money for all these armies and armaments is obtained, for the most part, by grinding
							taxation.
						Of the best European governments, Prussia may be taken for an example, and also
							because her present military system, which dates from 1814, the close of the
							Napoleonic wars, has been copied by nearly every great power in Europe. In Prussia,
							every young man enters the army at twenty and serves for three years. For the next
							nine he is in the reserve, liable to serve in offensive war. Thereafter, until he is
							fifty years of age, he may be called to serve at home in case of invasion. Prussia, in
							time of peace, has a standing army of 300,000 men, and can raise it, if need be, at
							any time to nearly 1,000,000, all of whom, so perfect is the military organization,
							can be in marching order in fourteen days' notice. That is the army of Prussia alone.
							Germany, including Prussia and other States, out of her population of 43,000,000, has
							at her disposal 2,500,000 of armed and disciplined men to put in the field, and yet
							leave a force at home for defense. Prussia has a much less severe taxation, however,
							than almost any other country in Europe, for her public debt is comparatively small,
							and she lives within her means. The national taxation is not over $50,000,000. Her
							other sources of revenue are from customs, excise tax, crown lands, forests,
							railroads, mines, iron works, etc. Education is compulsory. Prussia, in religion, is
							two-thirds Protestant.
						Austria's military system is substantially the same as that of Prussia, and her
							standing army is about the  same size. Austria, however,
							has, among her resources of revenue, two that show very unenlightened ideas of
							finance. She derives a sum of nearly $10,000,000 by a State lottery, and about the
							same amount from a tax on salt. That is, she preys upon the weakness and vice of her
							people, and gets gain by the oppression of her poor. Austria has only about 12,000
							miles of railroad, while in Indiana we have over one-third as many miles (4,963), and
							the railroad from Omaha to San Francisco, which consists of but two lines—the
							Central and the Union Pacific—contains nearly one-sixth as many miles as the
							whole of Austria. Austria has an enormous national debt, and, for the last ninety
							years, her revenues have not equaled her expenses. She is, however, mighty in the
							production of beer, having no fewer than 3,200 breweries, which furnish, annually,
							200,000,000 gallons of beer. Austria is more than three-fourths Catholic.
						Although modeled on the plan of Prussia, Russia is more severe in her military
							system. Every male Russian must spend his life, from twenty-one to twenty-seven, in
							active service in the army, and stand enrolled for nine years in the reserve. In
							peace, she has three-fourths of a million in arms; in time of war, one and one-fourth
							millions; beside, 30,000 Cossack cavalry give their service for rent or taxes, and
							equip themselves at their own cost. The Czar spends $150,000,000 on his war equipments
							and $10,000,000 for the education of his 85,000,000 subjects. That is, the despotism
							of Russia spends for education one-fifteenth as much as for war. The Republic of the
							United States spends twice as much for education as for war. The Russian  peasantry (the laboring classes) are almost without
							education. Not one in fifty attends school, and, in the army, only eleven out of every
							one hundred soldiers can read. The Russian province of Finland is the one exception to
							this. A Russian village is a collection of wooden huts, usually one story, with but
							one room, in which the whole family sleeps on the bare floor. The Russian clergy
							(Greek Catholic) are debarred the use of newspapers, lest they meddle with politics,
							and they are almost as ignorant and as drunken as the peasants. In Russia, nearly
							one-half of the national revenue is obtained from duties on liquor, and the government
							will not suffer this important source of income to be trifled with. The consumption of
							bodki, the great intoxicant of the peasant, is deliberately promoted by officials,
							civil and ecclesiastical. Any attempt to propagate temperance opinions is sternly
							repressed. This is the condition of the Russian of to-day.
						France has an army of 719,000 men, and can bring into the field 2,500,000 of trained
							soldiers, in case of need. She expends on this army $100,000,000 per annum, and on her
							navy $35,000,000 additional. Thirty per cent of the French people, above six years of
							age, are wholly without education. Ninety-eight per cent of the French are Catholics,
							but all religions are tolerated.
						Reference will be made to but two other European powers. The first of these is to the
							little kingdom of Italy, not three times larger in area than the State of Indiana,
							with a population but little over eight times that of Indiana. Italy expends per annum
							$78,000,000 for war, while she pays for the education of her people  but one-tenth of that amount. This same country, with its
							area not three times larger than our own State, has ready for the field a standing
							army of 200,000 men. We remember that the United States, which, in size, equals all
							Europe, has a standing army of but 25,000 men—not quite one-eighth the size of the
							army of the little kingdom of Italy. Further, the Italian navy had, in 1883,
							seventy-two vessels, eighteen of which are ironclads of the most powerful
							construction, and, since then, she has built seven of the largest and most powerful
							ironclads in the world. The cost of each of these ships is $5,000,000. These ships are
							armed with ioo to 120-ton guns (England's largest is an eighty-ton gun), and every
							ioo-ton gun costs $200,000. These guns fire steel shot of 1,400 pounds weight, and
							cost $500 each. These millions of dollars are wrung from the over-worked, under-fed
							masses. The Italian landowners have memorialized their government in the following
							terms. I quote: "The average taxation on land throughout Italy, for instance, rises to
							forty or even forty-five per cent, and, in some parts of Cremona, to as much as sixty
							per cent." These taxes are on the net returns, not of the variable production of the
							year, which may be large or may be small, but on the fixed basis of the nine or
							twelve-year lease valuation as obtained at public auction. The principal beneficent
							institutions of Cremona, holding land, are taxed in the same way, and when the
							expenses of repairs and maintenance are added, the net returns sink to zero. Again,
							the taxpayer receives the visits of the collector every two months; the taxes cannot
							be delayed. On account of inability to meet this demand of government from  the crown lands, there have been 60,000 evictions of
							small proprietors. More misery-producing than even the taxes is "the 'lotto'
							(lottery), which has its officers in every hamlet from the Alps to South Sicily." For
							a lira (twenty cents) the peasant hopes he may become rich. The ruinous effect is
							shown by the fact that the net income of the government from this source is from five
							to ten millions of dollars.
						It is true that, since her unification and constitutional government, Italy has
							gained in industry, education and general intelligence, but, during the ten years,
							from 1870 to 1880, her national debt has increased to $200,000,000, and, under good
							King Humbert, her taxation is four times heavier than it was under the wretched rule
							of the loathsome Bomba (Ferdinand XI). The statistics I have given, which, in figures,
							give the oppressive taxation of Italy, are from the report of the Italian
							Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry; and this same report states that one of the
							sanitary measures resorted to in 1884, to check the cholera, was a resolution passed
							by the merchants of the Campagna, "that dead animals be buried in quick lime, to
							prevent the peasants from digging up and eating them, as often happens;" and yet
							worse, in 1881, there were, throughout the Kingdom, 103,958 persons dying from slow
							starvation. The disease bears the name of pellagra. Statistics prove that the
							contadino, or peasants, live exclusively on polenta (cornmeal mush); of this they have
							but one and one-half pounds per day, which is but half the amount required by an
							adult. This polenta often has poisonous properties, owing to the meal being made out
							of mildewed corn. The mildew is a minute  fungus, and
							poisonous, as we know many of our fungus plants are here, as ergot, mushrooms, etc.
							Owing to the government monopoly on salt, it is too expensive a luxury for the
							peasant; he can afford it only for his cattle. Italy is a Catholic country.
						Of the last of the European contrasts, I will give but one brief illustration. It is
							England, our mother, of all Europe the most enlightened, she and we would say. To
							support her control in India, she maintains there an army of 190,000 men, and supports
							them in part. I will now quote the words of an English authority: "A sum of from forty
							to fifty millions of dollars by a tax on the opium which we force the Chinese
							government to admit, and thirty millions from a salt monopoly, a source as
							indefensible on economical as the opium tax is on moral grounds." A Christian nation,
							for purposes of revenue for itself, forcing upon a heathen nation that which affects
							the moral and physical ruin of its people, and, it is claimed, excludes them from the
							privilege given to the inhabitants of every other nation on the globe—the
							privilege of becoming citizens of the best land upon which the sun shines. The same
							English authority gives us a place in the comparison which, perhaps, our own
							self-knowledge would prevent us from claiming. He says: "Russia spends $150,000,000
							for war, and $10,000,000 upon the education of her people. America contents herself
							with an expenditure for war of $45,000,000, but the total income of her schools is
							$90,000,000. Twice as much to educate her people as for war, and no conscription."
							Yet, the same author adds, "In spite of this lavish expenditure, she has 4,500,000
							citizens who  cannot read. These are all in the Southern
							States, whose educational condition has not yet recovered from the debasing influences
							of slavery. The native American of the Northern States is scarcely ever without
							education." Quoting still further, "America is the only great power in the world
							which does not consume the substance of her people by upholding huge military
							establishments in time of peace." I have given this much space to the governmental and
							educational features of the question, because I think it is so largely the underlying
							cause of all the other differences.
						Indissolubly connected with this close conscription of men, to maintain such large
							standing armies, is another feature in which we widely and favorably differ from
							Europe. Food and clothing are universal necessities. In Europe, the bread winners are
							the women and children, the old and the infirm. In England, men and women in the
							fields toil side by side. In Germany, worse; the women harnessed beside the donkey,
							draw the plow or the cart, in the latter case, taking the donkey's place between the
							shafts. If she has any sharer of her burden, it will be a large dog, under the cart,
							harnessed to it and pulling with a will. In Italy-not even with dogs or carts to
							lighten the labor—from the mountains she carries down to the valley half a
							cart-load of fagots, bundled and borne on her head, or lime for the builders, carried
							in baskets on the head also; or, in the planting season, everywhere in the fields may
							be seen the Italian women, in gangs of fifteen or twenty, following the plow, bent
							double, that they may thrust into the ground a short stick to make the hole into which
							they drop the corn.  The effect of this beastly,
							unceasing drudgery, on the intelligence and refinement of the women, is what one must
							expect, and, in the gain or loss of one sex, the other has equal share. A nation can
							never be great or good while it debases its people. Another difference to American
							eyes and ears is painfully apparent. The men whom the Mayflower landed on the bleak
							New England shores; the men who, with half their number under New England snows,
							saw—it may be with whitening faces, but with unquailing hearts and unfaltering
							wills—the Mayflower go back to Old England without them; who sturdily turned
							from the receding ship to plow over the graves of their dead, that their Indian foes
							might not know of their diminished numbers, were men whose faith was not sustained by
							desecrated Sabbaths, by kissing images or bowing before dirty pictures of the Virgin,
							or by paying for past or present sins, or for the privilege to commit them in future.
							The men who gave their lives for the liberty we have to-day, were men who worshiped
							God in spirit and in truth, and who kept His commandments.
						In Germany, the Sabbath is a holiday, and from Germany come our anarchists, despising
							God, and trampling under foot our laws and making our liberty their license. In Italy,
							every grocer's stall is open, and the carpenter's saw and the stone-cutter's tools are
							seen and heard, not now universally, but quite generally. Only Saints' days are
							religiously kept. Such heathenish sights meet the eye on every hand. In some of the
							churches are arches of votive offerings, made to the patron saint of the church for
							his supposed miracle of healing. These offerings are effigies, in wax, of the  parts healed: a foot, a leg, an arm, an ear, the eyes,
							etc. Or, extended on a cross may be a wax figure of the crucified one, and around it
							go the passing multitudes and reverentially kissing some part of the blood-stained
							body. At the approach of Christmas, before hundreds of images of the Virgin are set
							burning tapers, night and day burning, and the wild, weird sound of the bagpipe
							resounds here and there through the streets; it being highly meritorious to have the
							lights burn and the music play before these images of the Virgin at this season. Even
							the very magnificence of the churches is painful when contrasted with the wretched
							poverty of the worshipers. What are floors of marble mosaic, walls of the same with
							paintings by the great masters, and frescoed ceilings and jeweled altars, and the poor
							dying for food ! It is not pleasantly suggestive of the mental and moral condition
							of a people, in the nineteenth century, to see men and women on their knees, painfully
							toiling up the holy stairs, as they did in the time of Luther and before, nor to read
							in large letters over church doors, "Plenary indulgence for past, present and future
							sins."
						I have referred to the food question in Italy, and the following table will show how,
							on this question, the European powers compare with each other and with ourselves. In
							this estimate, four bushels of potatoes are counted equal to one bushel of grain:
								
								
									
									Bushels
									Pounds Meat
								
								
									France
									24.02
									81.88
								
								
									Germany
									23.71
									84.51
								
								
									Belgium
									22.84
									57.10
								
								
									Great Britain
									20.02
									119.10
								


								
								
									
									Bushels
									Pounds Meat
								
								
									Russia
									17.97
									54.05
								
								
									Spain
									17.68
									25.04
								
								
									Austria
									13.57
									56.03
								
								
									Sweden and Norway
									12.05
									20.80
								
								
									Italy
									 9.62
									51.10
								
								
									Average for Europe
									17.66
									57.50
								
								
									United States
									40.62
									120.00
								
							 That is twice the average of Europe, and four times the amount of grain and
							six times the meat of Italy. Nearly one-half the population of Prussia live on an
							annual income, per family, of $105.
						The United States not only feeds her people twice as well as Europe does, but she
							spends, per capita, six times as much as Europe to educate her people. The facilities
							for travel are better in America than they are abroad. Nothing in Europe equals in
							comfort our palace-cars, except the palace-cars of America that have been put, in a
							few instances, on European railroads. There is no such checking system abroad as we
							have, whereby we send, with security and without personal supervision, baggage from
							New York to San Francisco, 2,500 miles. In southern Europe, the vehicles in ordinary
							use are clumsy in the extreme and heavy beyond all need. To these the wretched donkey
							or horse is fastened, with breast harness which galls and slips the skin from the
							flesh and tortures the flesh into great raw tumors above and below the band.
							Frequently one sees a donkey, a horse and an ox harnessed side by side, an arrangement
							that throws some light on the text of being "unequally yoked."
						The Italian plow of to-day is of a pattern older than Christianity—a crooked
							stick, or a roughly hewed, clumsy frame, made to resemble one and shod  with iron. The operations of threshing and winnowing the
							grain are precisely the same as in the days when King David bought the threshing-floor
							of Araunah, the Jebusite. One sees by the wayside these threshing-floors, and the oil
							press is as primitive. Agriculture in Italy is no further advanced than it was in
							England under the Saxon Heptarchy. But little money for drainage can be spared from
							the armaments, so the vast marshes breed their deadly malaria and pestilential fevers.
							No banks check the inundations of many of the rivers; no trees are re-set on the
							barren hills, to attract moisture so needful.
						The cooking arrangements are remarkable: A range of porcelain (dish-ware) has along
							its outer edge little square cavities, that are open above and on the outside. Two
							thirds of the distance from the top to the bottom of this little hole, bars of iron
							are set horizontally; upon these, little fragments of charcoal are placed, and a
							perpetual fanning keeps up the higher degrees of heat, while an ordinary fire will
							exist without the fanning. Over these are put the utensils for the cooking.
						We have an opportunity, at our own doors, of comparing the results of our
							civilization with that abroad. There is coming to us, year by year, an unceasing and
							ever-increasing flow of the people whose condition I have described. What do our
							statistics show? In 1870 the foreign element constituted twenty per cent of the
							population of New England—one-fifth—but it furnished seventy-five per cent
							of the crime. Of 680 discharged convicts who applied to the prison association of New
							York for aid, during the year ending June  30, 1882, 536
							reported themselves of foreign parentage; criminals first, paupers second. The Rhode
							Island work-house and house of correction had received, to December 31, 1882, 6,202
							persons on commitment, and of that number seventy-six per cent were born of foreign
							parentage. In 188o the foreign-born population of the United States was only thirteen
							per cent of the entire population, yet it furnished nineteen per cent of the convicts
							in our penitentiaries, and forty-three per cent of the inmates of our houses of
							correction; while a large proportion of the prisoners were native-born, but of foreign
							parents. It is almost wholly foreign influence that desecrates our Sabbaths. In 1880,
							when the foreign-born of our population was only thirteen per cent of the whole,
							sixty-three per cent of the dealers in liquors and wines were foreign-born, and
							seventy-five per cent of the brewers and malsters. Of saloon-keepers, sixty per cent
							were foreign-born, while nearly all of the remaining forty per cent were born of
							foreign parentage. Foreigners of these classes furnish most of the victims of
							Mormonism. During the first decade after Mormonism was founded, the annual average of
							foreign immigrant Mormons was seventy-five per cent. During the last five years, the
							annual average has ranged from 2,500 to 3,000. The illiteracy among our foreign-born
							population is thirty-eight per cent greater than among our native-born whites.
						The subject is not nearly exhausted, but the patience of the audience may be. But are
							not two things surprising? One, the ridiculous side, that we have Americans who return
							from a year or two abroad, Anglo-maniacs or German-maniacs, flaunting foreign  airs, aping foreign manners; side-whiskered, eyeglassed,
							in Oscar Wilde fashion, galloping while their horses trot, and decrying the mother who
							bore them. The other side is that relating to our own future, whose impending perils
							the glamour of patriotic love and hope cannot conceal from the recognition of every
							mind over which calm reason and reflection are allowed to prevail.
					
				

				
					EXTRACTS FROM CORRESPONDENCE
					Mrs. Davis' correspondence was very large. We copy a few extracts:
					
						
							
								NAPLES, ITALY,
								February 6, 1887
							
						
						In answer to your questions: I am now painting a large spray of wild roses. It is my
							fourth study, and will be finished and another begun this week, I hope. I seem to work
							slowly.
						I have changed teachers in French; have four lessons a week—before, I had only
							three. The present teacher is much better. The first was an Italian girl and very
							amiable, and understood French and Italian, but not enough English to tell me when I
							had my translation right. This, with my studying up the places and the social
							elements, the writing, and the sightseeing, my time slips away without leisure. I have
							not read much, outside, but Mark Twain's "Tramp Abroad," and "Prince and Pauper;" a
							little story, "The Newcombs;" about half of one volume of Hildarth's "Six Months in
							Italy;" some of Irving's  "Sketch Book," and to the
							thirty-fourth page in the French Reader, is all I have done. I wish I could— oh,
							how I wish I could—accomplish more. I might have kept myself out of the social
							life; but I went into it, conscientiously, that I might see life here. I thought it
							would cultivate and broaden and give ideas. I hope it has not been lacking in this
							result.
					
					[To another friend, she writes:]
						
					
						
							NAPLES,
								March 10, 1887
							
						
						I shall be so very, very glad when I shall see you all, my dear, dear friends, once
							more. One begins to feel that he is very far from home, when month after month goes
							by, and he sees not one familiar face and not one familiar thing. The winter has been
							a busy, anxious one, and while I have not accomplished what I hoped, yet, I think, it
							has by no means been an unprofitable one.
						There is so much new and strange, so nearly everything has a history connected with
							it, that one can readily afflict one's self with constant effort to familiarize
							himself with it. More effective than the preacher, does the crumbling ruin, the
							mouldering pile, the broken fragment, speak of the vanity of all earthly greatness, of
							all human efforts toward immortality. In these presences, the feeling excited becomes,
							sometimes, really painful and oppressive. It has seemed to me that the people, perhaps
							insensibly, are impressed with the same. Frequently, as I have passed through the
							streets at midday, have I seen the burning candles before the image of the Virgin, or
							the simple offering  of flowers at the shrine of her
							Son; and often, the light emerald green dress, trimmed with yellow, the sure sign that
							the wearer has vowed a vow and is thus fulfilling it.
						Of all the beautiful sights I have seen, in all my journey, nothing equals the bay of
						Naples. But it must be seen; words give no idea of it.
					
						
						
						
					
					
						
						
							NAPLES,
							February 15, 1887
							Dear Friend—
						
						I am in usual health, and have had, the past week, a very busy time, painting and
							studying beside. On Wednesday night, there was a pleasant social here, at which the
							Hon. Fred Douglas, and Rev. Henry M. Field, of the New York Evangelist, were present
							and the lions of the occasion. In addition, were Miss Field, and a nephew of H. M.
							Field, who is a brother of Cyrus W. Field; a lady from England, who
							had just returned from Egypt; an M. P. and his wife, from Australia; Mr. and Mrs.
							Guttrige, of this place, and some others.
						Mr. Field made quite a little speech. He had just arrived from a trip through Spain
							and North Africa; he spoke quite hopefully of each, and also congratulated Mr. Douglas
							on the progress of the colored people of the United States. Mr. Douglas responded,
							very feelingly and earnestly, and, among other things, said: To note correctly the
							advancement of his people, we must not measure from the height to which the white race
							has reached, but from the depths, from the depths,
							from which they have come.
					


					

					[Mrs. Davis had passed through the darkness of great sorrow, and she well knew how to
						sympathize with the bereaved. The following are from letters to a friend who had lost
						her husband:]
					
						
						December 7, 1894.
							My Beloved Friend—
						Day by day and hour by hour my mind turns to thee in loving sympathy. It is in the
							gloaming now, and I know just how, unconsciously, thy ear strains to catch the sound
							of the welcome footfall. I know how thee misses the dear, cheerful voice and spirit
							that lifted every load, sheltered from every care, and I know, too, that, as the days
							go by, the loss grows heavier in its agonizing weight. I sympathize with thee, more
							than words can tell. I don't believe that life can be lived, without the constant
							effort to realize how safe, from every storm of life, the beloved one is. No more
							care, no more sorrow, no more disappointment; but joy eternal, joy in the presence of
							God, whom he so loved. And, feeling, too, that it will not be long—only a
							little, little while for us, time will be lost in eternity.
					
					
						My Dear, Dear Sorrowing Friend—
						The very measure of your love and companionship and mutual reliance is now the
							measure of thy loss. What a wealth of comfort there is in the thought of what the lost
							one was!
						What a welcome awaits thee on the other shore
							Heaven and earth share thy treasures;
							Thy dearest of all, just gone on before.


						

						Spring is coming to you; soon the flowers will be opening, and the trees will be
							green by their quick resurrection to life. I am glad for thee that it is so; it will,
							a little, help to lift the heavy darkness of sorrow.
					
					[To a friend, after the death of her little girl, written just before Mrs. Davis'
						death:]
					
						Your letter is received, and it has been almost daily in my mind ever since; but, for
							the first time in my life, under such circumstances, I had not the courage to write.
							Words seem so poor, so harsh, in the presence of a bereavement, where the measure of
							loving companionship is the measure of the loss.
						"From God—to God."
						Joy, blessing—longing, that eternity alone can satisfy! And the history of a
							human life is written, whether its years be few or many, when love has bound that life
							to another.
					


					
					
						"Nor blame I Death, because he bare
						The use of virtue out of earth:
						I know transplanted human worth
						Will bloom to profit, otherwhere."
					

				
				
				
				
					CLARKSON DAVIS
				


				
				
					In Memoriam CLARKSON DAVIS
					
						Written for the Alumni Annual by Emily Weeks
						Clarkson Davis, the subject of this sketch, was born near Fountain City, Wayne
							county, Indiana. His parents soon removed to Grant county, Indiana, where he endured
							all the hardships incident to pioneer life. Possessing a delicate constitution, this
							labor and exposure caused years of suffering and a premature death. The educational
							facilities were limited, but that he made the best possible use of his opportunities
							is shown by the fact that, when he was but eight years old, his father, who was
							teaching a country school, gave him charge of a geography class. One of the bitter
							disappointments of his childhood came when some of their most valued books were
							exchanged for a pig.
						At the age of sixteen he began teaching. The dull round of heavy labor had grown so
							hard to bear, that he was glad to do work that would permit mental growth, even though
							all his small salary must be given to pay the wages of the farm laborer. Possibly, the
							one thing which had made this life endurable was the 
							strong bond of love and sympathy which united him and his mother. Only a few months
							before his death, he said: "I have never ceased to miss my mother; I feel her loss
							as keenly now as I did at first." He attended school for a time at Bloomingdale.
						His clothes were of homespun cloth, and made by his mother's hands. He paid his
							expenses by work done outside of school hours. Two dollars and a half was all the
							money he ever received to help him acquire an education. After teaching to obtain the
							means, he entered Earlham College in 1856. He was soon appointed governor of the
							students, but continued his studies. The following year he was employed as teacher of
							mathematics. In 1859 his health so failed that he was compelled to discontinue work
							for a time. He soon returned, and remained until 1862. This same year he was married
							to Hannah E. Brown, daughter of Benjamin and Naomi Brown.
						In 1863 he took charge of Spiceland Academy. The chief source of the prosperity and
							popularity of this school can be traced to the work and influence of Clarkson Davis.
							For many years he gave his whole heart to the work of upbuilding this school. Not
							simply for the material prosperity of the school did he labor, but for the development
							of all that was good and the repression of all that was evil in each individual
							student. He possessed an unusual ability to read character and to discover motives of
							action, and his great heart always led him to use the knowledge thus gained to help
							those with whom he was associated. Little did some of his pupils dream of the anxious
							thoughts given them, or of the careful planning wrought out for their benefit.


						

						The dream of the school-boy—aye, and of the school-girl, too—is of doing
							some grand work when he goes out into the world. Just what this is to be, or how it is
							to be achieved, he has no definite idea, but it is to bring with it fame, fortune and
							friends. Fortunate, indeed, is he who, at this period of his life, is placed under the
							guidance of a teacher who is truly great. Not only can such a teacher call out and
							direct latent powers, but, by constant association with a man of this spirit, the
							youth, unconsciously and slowly, it may be, yet surely learns to recognize true
							greatness. His aspirations have less and less of self in them. Such was the influence
							of Clarkson Davis. It is safe to assert that no pupil ever came under his care without
							being the better for it, although the one may have been unconscious of any change, and
							the other unconscious of any special effort to produce that change. "No pupil can say
							that Clarkson Davis ever rendered it harder for him to be honest and manly,
							self-reliant and persevering."He knew how to make the diffident boy feel more
							confidence in himself, and he knew, just as well, how to make the over-confident boy
							more humble and willing to be taught. His pupils were not so much afraid, as they were
							ashamed, to go to his class-room with a poorly prepared lesson. They knew that he
							expected good work, and his evident disappointment that they should have done less
							than the best of which they were capable, was sufficient punishment.
						How many a home-sick student was cheered by an invitation to the home of the
							superintendent, where he was welcomed by Mrs. Davis, who always seconded her husband
							in the hospitable and sympathetic entertainment of such guests!


						

						Clarkson Davis knew well how to teach, but mere ability to teach was not what made
							him pre-eminent. At this distance of time, his pupils think less about what was said
							in recitation and more about the quiet influence which his daily life shed about them.
							Without their knowing it, he directed the public sentiment of the school. He led them
							to despise dishonesty in school work and in games upon the play-ground, knowing well
							that when he had taught a boy to hate dishonesty in one form, it would be easier for
							that boy to detect and battle against it in all its forms. Being himself the
							embodiment of honesty, industry and manliness, his life was a sermon that is still an
							inspiration to all who really knew him. His pupils felt that "all he asked others to
							be, he himself was." Carlyle might have found a set of hero-worshippers in Clarkson
							Davis' pupils.
						We all remember his earnest talks in "Morning Collections." Perhaps all that he said
							was not comprehended, but those who listened were so touched by his uprightness and
							piety that they worked the more earnestly through the day. Like the Rugby boys, "We
							listened, as all boys in their better moods will listen, to a man whom we felt to be,
							with all his heart and soul and strength, striving against whatever was mean and
							unmanly and unrighteous in our little world. It was not the clear, cold voice of one
							giving advice and warning, from serene heights, to those who were struggling and
							sinning below, but the warm, living voice of one who was fighting for us and by our
							sides, and calling on us to help him and ourselves and one another. And so wearily and
							little by little, but surely  and steadily on the whole,
							was brought home to the young boy, for the first time, the meaning of his life: that
							it was no fool's or sluggard's paradise into which he had wandered by chance, but a
							battle-field ordained from of old, where there are no spectators, but the youngest
							must take his side, and the stakes are life and death. And he who roused his
							consciousness in them showed them, at the same time, by every word he spoke in the
							pulpit and by his whole daily life, how the battle was to be fought, and stood there
							before them their fellow-soldier and the captain of the band."
						Devotion to his school and to his friends led Clarkson Davis, twice, to decline a
							proffered position as president of a college, where both the honor and salary would
							have been greater. Once he was out of the school a year, and during this time he made
							a trip to Europe. At another time ill-health required him to give up school work, and
							he spent three years traveling for Harper & Brothers. He again became superintendent 
							of the Academy and held the place until the summer of 1882. He was again
							compelled to leave the school, and now it was for the last time. The following
							winter he, in company with Mrs. Davis, started for the South, in the hope of receiving
							benefit from a warmer climate, but little improvement resulted from the change. They
							returned to Spiceland April 26, 1883. With sad hearts, we watched his step grow slower
							and slower, yet we could not believe that he was to be taken from us. When, on the
							26th of May, 1883, the final hour came, we felt almost rebellious, and in our great
							sorrow forgot that he had lived more in his fifty years than most men live in the
							allotted  three-score-and-ten. Then came the thought
							that startled Tom Brown, in his selfish sorrow over his dead teacher: "May he not
							even now be near me? If he be, am I sorrowing as he would have me sorrow— as I
							should wish to have sorrowed when I shall meet him again?" Feeling rebuked, we tried
							to ask only that our lives might be as pure and helpful as his had been; that our
							influence might be like his, which was always on the side of right and did not perish
							with the mortal body, but will endure throughout eternity.
					

					
						A Paper, Read at the Memorial Meeting, on Tuesday, May 29, 1883, 
							by Ludovic Estes
						The subject of this brief sketch was born near Newport (now Fountain City), Wayne
							county, Indiana, January 7, 1833. His parents were Wyllis and Ann (Coggeshall) Davis,
							the former of whom survives him.
						While he was still a little boy, the family removed to Grant county, Indiana, which
							at that time was almost a wilderness. There they experienced the privations of pioneer
							life. To wake up in the night, in the garret of their cabin, and find the snow drifted
							in upon him, and to hunt the cows, on horseback, through the interminable swamps, were
							among the experiences of his early life. In after years, he gave many an entertaining
							account of these experiences, to his pupils and 
							
								CLARKSON DAVIS, 1862
							
							
							friends. He used to say that it was a common
							expression, with many persons, that they would like to live their childhood over
							again, but with him it was otherwise. It seems to have been, for the most part, a dull
							round of uneventful hardships. He had a delicate constitution, and it was the miasma
							of those swamps that sowed the seeds of his future sufferings and premature death.
						He attended such schools as the neighborhood afforded, and, as a little lad, he was
							distinguished by his readiness at spelling. In his father's school, he was set, when
							eight years old, to teaching geography; and at sixteen, he took charge of a school of
							his own. His wages were handed over to his father, who applied them to the payment of
							a laborer on the farm. In early childhood, he formed an unusually warm attachment to
							Cornelius Ratcliff, which lasted through every change of life and condition until the
							death of the latter.
						He afterwards attended school at Bloomingdale, under B. C. Hobbs. There he paid his
							tuition and board by such work as he could do outside of school. The extent of all the
							pecuniary assistance which he received, to acquire an education, was two dollars and a
							half. His clothes were homespun, butternut jeans, not made by a tailor, but by the
							hands of a loving mother at home. At the close of school, he stood before the audience
							to speak the valedictory address, with a sadly dilapidated pair of boots, having no
							money with which to buy another pair, and being too proud to go in debt for them.
						After having taught school for a time and obtained a little means, he entered, in
							1856, Friends' Boarding  School, now Earlhain College,
							under the tuition of Joseph Moore and William Morgan. In his second term he was
							appointed governor of the students, with an opportunity to pursue his studies; and, in
							the next year, he succeeded William Morgan as teacher of mathematics. The arduous
							character of his labors there, with the overwork necessary to complete his education,
							developed the evil influences already sown in his physical constitution. In 1859 his
							health gave way. At the close of the year, alarming hemorrhages set in, and he was
							compelled to leave his position for a time. In his diary for the twelfth month 3oth,
							he writes: "My hopes for future life have seemed blasted. It may be that my mission
							is not yet accomplished, and that my health may be again restored. I hope to remain
							cheerful and resigned. I know not what may be the result; but, it matters not, so that
							I know that my Redeemer liveth."
						His health was, soon afterwards, sufficiently restored to resume a portion of his
							work at Earlham; he remained until the summer of 1862. He was again compelled to
							leave, almost utterly broken down in health. The same year he "accomplished his
							intentions of marriage" (to use the compulsory phrase of that day), in the compulsory
							form of that day, at Orange meeting, a few miles south of Richmond, with Hannah E.
							Brown, daughter of Benjamin and Naomi Brown.
						After remaining out of school for a year, during which his health was much improved
							by careful exercise at hard labor, he took charge of the Spiceland Academy, in which
							he and his wife continued to teach  for most of the
							remaining years of his life. It was in this connection that his reputation as an
							educator was fully established. The growth of the school, under his care, from the
							time when it occupied one small building to the present, when two buildings, enlarged
							by successive additions, are barely sufficient to accommodate it, is not the only nor
							the greatest evidence of his ability and success. His almost unbounded influence over
							his pupils, and their universal affection for him, speak of a deep and grander work.
							That influence was used to plant nobler ideals, to inspire them to higher attainments,
							broader views, purer thoughts and holier lives. No pupil can say that Clarkson Davis
							ever rendered it harder for him to be honest and manly, self-reliant and persevering,
							for these were objects to which pointed his precepts, his example and his helping
							hand. It is a grand thing for a community to possess a man whose very presence seems
							to banish every ignoble thought and to encourage everything that is elevating. One of
							his methods of encouraging a love of good literature was to hold First-day afternoon
							readings, especially for the young people, at which he read and commented upon
							selected poems and passages from standard authors, and he took frequent occasion in
							school to create a desire for good reading. His connection with the school was
							interrupted once by an absence of a year, during which he made a trip to Europe, and
							again, when his health seemed failing him, by an absence of three years, which he
							occupied in traveling in the interest of Harper & Brothers. He returned to the
							school in 1876, and remained at its head until the close of the last school year.

						

						For more than a year his health had been growing worse, and he withdrew more and more
							from active business. A year ago it seemed as if he could not live many weeks longer.
							At the end of the year he went, with his wife, in a vain search for his lost health.
							The remainder of the winter was spent in Florida, where some bad symptoms disappeared,
							only to give way to others more alarming. He had made the journey only at the
							solicitation of his friends, and during the whole absence he felt a home-sick longing
							to return. The kind missives and remembrance of friends at home were doubly
							appreciated, amid their loneliness in a distant land. When at last he decided to
							return, it was with the gladness of a home-sick child, and tears of joy welled to his
							eyes as he stepped into his own home, though he had come back to die. His strength
							continued to decline, with some hopeful intervals. At 3 o'clock on the morning of the
							24th he was seized with congestion of the right lung, lasting until noon. From this
							time until his death, on the morning of the 26th, he never slept.
						His death was a gradual sinking away. A member of his family, desirous of some last
							evidence of his spiritual condition, inquired if he felt peace. "Yes, yes," he
							replied, "peace, peace." These were his last words.
						For more than twenty-five years he had been battling with death. He was like a man on
							a sinking ship, on whom the leak keeps gaining, save when, by almost superhuman
							efforts at the pumps, the water line is, for a time, lowered, only to rise above all
							at last. But our hopes, our love, our faith have not gone down,  too, with the sinking wreck. "The souls of the righteous are in the hand
							of God, and there shall no evil touch them."
						During my acquaintance with him—short, when measured by years—I never
							heard from him a complaining word, although he scarcely knew what it was to be free
							from pain. He seemed rather to avoid mentioning his ailments, and this habit,
							doubtless, kept most persons from knowing the difficulties with which he had to
							contend. On one occasion, he said, in reference to his sickness, "I think I might have
							accomplished something in life, if I had not had always to work against such a tide."
							The same language exhibited another trait of his character, humility. He never seemed
							to think that he had done any great work. One of his firm beliefs was the future
							recognition of friends in heaven. His wife having said to him, a short time before his
							death, that she could bear the separation better if assured of this fact; he replied,
							"I wish you had the faith that I have. I believe the Lord will do more for us than we
							can possibly think. I have the most perfect faith."
						Let us have this faith. Then we have not, hopeless, laid our dead beneath "the low,
							green tent, whose curtain never outward swings; "but, looking up, though with
							tear-dimmed eyes, we see— "The stars shine through our
								cypress trees."
					
				

				
				
					Papers and Addresses
						ofClarkson Davis

					
						COUNTER CURRENTS
						Men of science tell us that the atmosphere which envelopes our globe is almost
							constantly in a state of motion, not merely at random, but in great and constant
							currents which move in opposite directions. While the warmer air of the equatorial
							regions is rising and flowing off to the north and the south, the colder air of the
							poles is at the same time rushing in opposite directions, to fill the vacuum caused by
							the first movement; or, as it is so aptly described: "The wind goeth towards the south
							and turneth about unto the north; it whirleth about continually, and the wind
							returneth again according to his circuits." They tell us, too, that the ocean
							—that symbol of eternity, "Likeness of Heaven, agent of power"—limits not its
							motion to the mere rise and fall of its waves, but that mighty currents sweep, some to
							the north and some to the south, mingling and commingling the waters from polar and
							equatorial regions. The solid earth, too, which we are accustomed to look upon as the
							type of stability, is made the prey of contending forces. One power lifts the
							mountains, till their summits are wrapped in the clouds, and another persistently
							wears away even the solid rock, and never ceases its operations until the atoms have
							reached the  lowest depths, to rest until some counter
							current carries them again upward. Through the geological ages, which, to Deity, are
							but the seconds of eternity, the valleys are exalted before Him and the mountains
							literally flow down at his presence. Light and darkness chase each other around the
							globe; life and death struggle ever for the mastery.
						What we see in the physical world, has its counterpart in the great balancing of
							forces in the moral and spiritual world. Not only in the past, but also in the
							present, does it remain true that barbarism stands opposed to civilization, ignorance
							to enlightenment, and vice to virtue. Nor is it of heathen nations alone that this
							proposition is true, but of the most Christian lands beneath the sun. The history of
							every nation which has stood in the front ranks of civilization, is but a record of
							the struggle of these opposing forces, and in many instances victory has, sooner or
							later, perched upon the banner of darkness. It is at present foreign to our purpose to
							trace the rise and fall of ancient nations; at this time, the living present concerns
							us more than the dead past, and our country and neighborhood more than Greece or
							Babylon. This brings us at once to one of the counter currents which we find opposed
							to true progress, to-wit: the fear of grappling with present evils. We can all
							denounce injustice and covetousness in the abstract, but it is quite a different thing
							to openly take the part of a poor neighbor who has suffered by the injustice of some
							man who counts his dollars by the thousands; it is easy to sit in judgment and to
							pronounce sentence upon a Shylock of two centuries ago, who demanded the pound of
							flesh nearest  the heart of his debtor, but if that
							Shylock is a man of wealth and influence in your own town, who exacts not only the
							pound of flesh but the whole body and soul, into the bargain, of those of his poorer
							fellows, whom he can use as stepping-stones to place and power, the chances are that
							we become the flatterers instead of the rebukers of iniquity. As of olden time, the
							Elijahs are few who dare to stand before the Ahabs of modern society, and say, "Thou
							art the man that troubleth Israel."
						There are some currents in our social life that set in the right direction, only they
							do not reach down deep enough; they are merely on the surface, while the strong and
							silent undertow is sweeping out to sea and eternal ruin, rich argosies that we
							expected soon to see anchored in some quiet haven. One surface current builds one
							church, and pays one minister of the gospel to stand upon the walls of Zion and invite
							sinners to enter in at the straight and narrow gate; while the under current fattens
							twenty ministers of Satan, who stand in the saloons and the gambling dens, and other
							haunts of vice, to entice, with every art that ingenuity can devise, their thousands
							into the broad way of destruction. We stand in the assemblies of the people, and
							denounce the pride of Nebuchadnezzar and the idolatry of Jeroboam, while our hearts
							are secretly saying, "This is great Babylon, which I have built," and idolizing the
							gold which bears the image of the eagle instead of the image of the calf. We exhort,
							"Be ye not conformed to the world," "Seek not the gold that perishes with its using,"
							and we declaim loudly against the sins of worldly-mindedness, and yet  we are constantly crying, "Give, give." Churches are to
							be built, schools established and endowed, the Bible and the missionary sent to the
							heathen, the poor to be fed and clothed, and ministers of the gospel to be
							supported.
						It is not my purpose, at present, to reconcile these inconsistencies, or to reverse
							either current, but merely to point out their existence. Yet it is well for us all to
							consider, when we are thanking God for our lack of worldly-mindedness, whether it were
							not better to pray to be delivered from our laziness. For the voice of inspiration,
							which said, "Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth," has said by the mouth of
							one of the apostles, "Be not slothful in business." As a nation, however, we are
							probably quite enough addicted to money getting, and there is no other country in the
							world where there is such general prosperity.
						There is another current, having its source in our prosperity, from which we stand in
							nearly or quite as much danger as from worldly-mindedness; that is, the tendency to
							helplessness. Wealth brings with it the means of culture and refinement. It affords us
							whatever advantages are to be obtained from schools, travel, comfortable homes, and
							leisure for contact with cultivated minds, but in most instances it brings a loss in
							skill, energy and self-reliance. The rich man's children are often helpless, with all
							their wealth, and are at the mercy of the hewers of wood and the drawers of water. The
							boy who can not black his own boots, harness a horse or saw wood, or the girl who can
							not cook a meal or wash and iron her own clothes, has purchased bodily ease at the
							sacrifice of independence of character, and  in no small
							degree will be the slave of servants and hirelings. What is called education, too
							often has the same effect; mental training has been obtained at the price of
							disordered nerves, weakened muscles, and a loss of skill in those manual employments
							which are requisite to enable us to bear many of the petty annoyances incident to
							daily life. The scholar can measure the distance of the planets, and predict with
							unerring certainty the return of eclipses, but the illiterate backwoodsman will excel
							him in finding his way through the pathless forests, or in tracking the wild beast to
							his lair or the wild bee in his flight. His, too, is the quicker eye to perceive the
							approach of danger, and the readiest mind to devise means of escape.
						In one of the legends of the Northmen, one of the gods desires to drink from the
							fountain of wisdom, but the one who presides over the fountain grants the wish only on
							condition that the god shall leave his right eye in pledge; and the student of to-day
							who seeks to drink from that magic spring, must expect to pay the price.
						Nature demands compensation for the advantages she bestows; there is no current but
							that has its opposite. She gives us grand tropical forests and majestic mountain
							scenery, but dwarfs the men who dwell among them. Of other lands than Italy might the
							poet have sung: "In florid beauty groves and fields
									appear;
								Man seems the only growth that dwindles here."
						Perhaps no two opposing forces more intimately concern you at present than those of
							Growth and Decay. As your present position is, in great part, the  result of your mental growth, so will your future success depend upon a
							continuation of that growth; to stop growing is to stop living. He who should shut
							himself up in a cave for seven years, to compose orations on a given topic, would
							find, upon his return to society, that the whole question had been disposed of, and
							only some old files of newspapers would remain to remind the world that the subject
							had ever agitated the human mind. Sharp, quick and decisive are the contests of this
							age; and they who would stand abreast with the nineteenth century must allow no
							element of decay to enter into their mental composition.
						The success which awaits you in the future, depends not so much upon your present
							standing in your classes, or the brilliancy of your commencement orations, as upon
							your capacity for continued growth. Unless you can continue to increase your mental
							stature, no difference how high your standing may have been in your classes, or what
							brilliant displays of wit or wisdom your past essays or speeches may have contained,
							without the quality alluded to above, all that brightness will be but the flash that
							lights the meteor to obscurity. The weed that grows but for a few months passes
							quickly back into dust, while the giant oak or pine reaches the fullness of its
							stature through the growth of centuries, and then endures while long years are
							passing.
						As the time comes when, at our annual gatherings, one familiar face after another is
							missing, and at the roll-call of the alumni name after name shall be answered only by
							silence and a tear, may it be but the  prelude to a
							happy meeting at a higher commencement beyond the river, where we shall never grow old
							in bearing the burden of years, and no counter current ever bear us back from the
							presence of God forever.
					
					
						A CLASS ADDRESS
						"But to do good and to communicate, forget not; for with such sacrifices God is well
							pleased."
						The apostle, in his epistle to the Hebrews, draws vivid and strong contrasts between
							the old and the new dispensations; between the law of Moses and the priesthood of
							Aaron, and the law and priesthood of Christ. He dwells, with particular emphasis, on
							the powerlessness of the sacrifices under the law to take away sin, and of their
							inability to make the comers thereunto perfect. He also very clearly defines faith;
							shows that without the same we cannot please God, and enumerates the worthy fruits
							thereof in the fathers of the olden time. He then proceeds to show that God has
							provided some better thing for us, through the coming and the gospel of Jesus Christ,
							and he fervently exhorts those who have received a kingdom which cannot be moved, to
							seek for grace, that they may serve God acceptably, with reverence and godly fear; and
							then, as if specially to show—what the Savior himself had emphatically
							taught—that faith and works must go hand in hand, the apostle admonishes his
							brethren to be not forgetful to entertain strangers, to remember them that are in
							bonds, and to offer the  sacrifices of praise to God
							continually—that is, the fruit of our lips, giving thanks to His name. Then, as
							if summing up all injunctions to action, he says: "But to do good and to communicate,
							forget not; for with such sacrifices God is well pleased."
						There are in the text three leading ideas: First, to do good; second, to
							communicate; third, the kind of sacrifices pleasing to God. I propose, first, to call
							your attention to the latter, very briefly, and then to devote my attention to the
							first two. It is a well recognized principle in things both secular and sacred that
							nothing valuable is obtained without some sacrifice: The scholar purchases his store
							of learning by the sacrifice of time, money, and too often health itself; the devotee
							of fashion sacrifices almost everything which this life can furnish, and, possibly,
							the hope of salvation, at the shrine of pleasure; the rich man sacrifices happiness
							for gold; and the ambitious man, immortal life for worldly fame. The great central
							idea of every kind of sacrifice is that of giving up, parting with something—and
							this is recognized by the receiver as well as by the giver. Would a man do us a
							service, we prize it the more that it has cost him something. For this reason we prize
							a flower which a friend brings us from a foreign land; the basket of fruit which the
							gardener sends us, which his own hands have tended and gathered; the picture which our
							artist friend traces with his own pencil, or the song which gushes from the heart of
							the poet when he would present to us an acceptable offering.
						Under the Mosaic law, the worshipper was required to bring the choicest animal from
							his flock, the first  fruits from his fields and
							vineyards; and he must feel that the element of cost was involved, else there was no
							sacrifice.
						In the epistle already alluded to, the apostle has dwelt upon the principal features
							of this law, and, as has been shown, he has said that we live under a more perfect
							covenant, and under that covenant he says that to do good and to communicate are
							sacrifices with which God is well pleased. This brings us to the question, Is it a
							sacrifice to do good? Does it involve the elements of cost? Or is not the pleasure
							derived from well-doing so great as to more than compensate for all the cost, and to
							preclude the idea of sacrifice? And these are serious inquiries, as the right answer
							to them may determine a life's career. What is called doing good, appears under two
							different forms, entirely diverse from each other. The one proclaims itself from the
							house-top, and sounds a trumpet at its going forth; the other goes with hushed
							foot-fall, and the left hand knoweth not what the right hand doeth. The one drops the
							dollar into the hand of the beggar, or into the contribution box, that the clink of
							the coin may be heard; the other, that suffering may be relieved, or glad tidings sent
							to benighted humanity. But it is the latter class who are the genuine doers of good,
							and often such labor on, toil on, until life's close, without ever so much as
							suspecting they have been doers of good, with no thought of having been heroes or
							heroines, until they hear the welcome language, "Well done, good and faithful servant;
							enter into the joy of thy Lord."
						One of the first steps towards a preparation for doing good is forgetfulness of self—
							an absence of all  thought of the praise which the
							world shall give. As a general rule, the world knows not its greatest benefactors
							until they have passed from their works to their rewards and it is found how few there
							are worthy to bear their mantles.
						It is much the same with the forces of nature—the silent influences are the
							most powerful. We stand aghast at the roar of the thunder, but it is the silent flash
							of lightning that strikes the beholder dead, or shivers the proud oak; we are appalled
							at the might of the hurricane that levels forests and cities, but it has not a tithe
							of the power of the rays of the sun, at whose light and warmth, silently exerted,
							millions of buds spring into existence, golden harvests wave in the passing breeze,
							the little hills rejoice on every side, the pastures are clothed with verdure, the
							valleys are covered with corn—they shout for joy, they also sing. And such is
							the influence of the quiet workers of good, whose aim is simply duty. Although I am
							dwelling more particularly upon that portion of the text which related to doing good,
							yet I am not an advocate of that manner of good doing that some persons practice. I do
							not believe in doing good as one follows a trade or practices a profession. We often
							hear it said, "Do all the good you can, that the world may be the better for your
							having lived in it;" but I like, far better, the expression of Mary Lyon when she
							said: "There are but two things in this life which I fear—one that I shall fail
							to know my whole duty; the other that, knowing it, I shall fail to do it."
						To some, it may seem paradoxical to advocate the words of the text and yet not advise
							persons to try to make the world better for one's having lived in it. I  should be glad that every person would contribute
							something towards making the world better, but I think it more likely to be
							accomplished by leaving all thought of self out of the question; by being more anxious
							to know what is our duty than to know how much good we are doing. The woman who broke
							the box of ointment upon the Saviour's feet, no doubt thought little of any good to be
							accomplished, but she wished to give expression to the love in her heart; and wherever
							the gospel shall be preached in the whole world, this shall be told as a memorial of
							her. It appears that those who had given the cup of cold water, had visited the sick,
							had fed the hungry and clothed the naked, had done these things without any thought of
							praise or reward, and it was with astonishment they heard the greeting: "Come, ye
							blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the
							world;" while those whose object had been to do so much good, and had cast out devils
							in the name of the Lord, and had done many wondrous works, were equally astonished to
							hear the sentence: "Depart, ye workers of iniquity; I never knew you." But to do good,
							is a sacrifice with which God is well pleased! Yes, provided it is done in the right
							spirit. If sacrifice is made of one's ambitions, hopes of fame and worldly pleasures,
							in order that God's will may be done— then, indeed, is God well pleased. Many
							honest, inquiring hearts have been too much troubled, because the fruits of their
							labor were not more apparent. They have wished to do good, and are discouraged that
							they have so little to show for their efforts. God knows our weakness, and He knows
							that too often our vanity  would be flattered, and we
							would be inclined to say, "By my might, have I done this," if we were permitted to
							know of every heart that our kind words may have gladdened, or of every drooping
							spirit that may have been comforted by our example; and it is in kindness that He
							withholds this knowledge from us, choosing rather to surprise us, at the completion
							of our toil, if it may be said of us: They have endured to the end; they shall be
							saved.
						To you, of this graduating class, we would especially commend the words of the text:
							"But to do good and to communicate, forget not; for with such sacrifices God is well
							pleased." Your attainments and discipline of mind give you advantages over many who
							have been less favored, and you are responsible for your opportunities. We would have
							you go forth, to do good in the spirit set forth in the discussion of the text. We
							would have you to forget not to communicate, so that others may be benefitted by your
							opportunities. And if you are anxious to know your duty and anxious to do it, and have
							your hearts filled with love to God and love to man, though your lots may be cast
							among the lowly of earth and your names be unknown to fame, you will not be forgotten
							in that day when the Lord shall make up His jewels. Or, should you be classed among
							the benefactors of mankind, and Fame be proud to write your names upon the marble
							monument and a nation weep at your departure, even then will the mourners here be
							fewer in number than the host who shall welcome you to the shining shores beyond the
							river.
					

					
					
						WITHIN THE VAIL
						In the tabernacle and the temple of old, beyond porch, courts and Holy Place, was the
							Inner Sanctuary, whose mysteries were shrouded by a vail that none but the High Priest
							might draw aside and stand face to face with the revealed glory of Jehovah.
						Throughout the universe, Deity works according to plan. Nowhere is there evidence of
							chance, confusion, or want of design. In different objects, the plan is more or less
							apparent, according as the relationship existing between them is more or less remote.
							Nor does the Holy of Holies, with its vail and mystery, stand isolated, as a plan or
							pattern. It is only a farther removed and more important term in an ascending infinite
							series, whose last and highest term is Deity. Do not misunderstand me; I approach the
							subject with no irreverence. I allow to the sanctuary and the vail their full
							importance, and recognize in them a type and a shadow of more glorious things to come.
							But, to me, this does not preclude the idea that the same pattern exists throughout
							the universe. To me, all nature is a temple, or rather a succession of temples, with
							porches, courts and vail-hidden recesses, into whose mysteries none but the world's
							thinkers ever have access. Understand me again; I am not spiritualizing, but simply
							tracing out analogies so plain that all who will may read. And I have reference to man
							only in his intellectual capacity. I have no intention of endeavoring to detract in
							the least from the design of the holy writings, but fully believe in the scripture
							account of the Scriptures, and that there is one Lord, one faith  and one baptism; and that it is far more essential to do the will of our
							Heavenly Father than to say Lord, Lord.
						I am thus particular in defining my position, because it has been my lot to meet with
							a few persons who seem to think every view heretical that did not coincide with their
							own view, and who, attributing to goodness of heart what belonged to dullness of
							intellect, asked no better test of orthodoxy than that a person should be too indolent
							to think, or too timid to express an opinion of his own.
						It was said that, in the world of intellect, the thinkers among mankind are the ones
							who draw aside, or rather rend the vail, and reveal to those who stand in the courts
							without, the mysteries hidden within. Nor is it revealed to them in visions, for the
							rending comes only by crucifixion. They must suffer who grow strong. The lightning and
							the earthquake must precede the rolling away of the stone. Such has been the
							experience of all who have led the way in the march of mind. But what, you ask, is the
							practical application of this? It might more reasonably be asked, to what is it not
							applicable? To everything, there is a beyond and an unseen; a within, into which none
							look except those who, having paid the price, are enabled to draw aside the vail.
						It is no infrequent occurrence to hear certain persons speaking against all who do
							not earn their livelihood by manual labor, and accusing them of being mere drones in a
							community, living off the hard-earned proceeds of the laborer. On the other hand,
							there are those who are too apt to look upon intellectual and professional employments
							as the only ones that are honorable, and who seem to consider the laboring classes as
								 being lower in the scale of humanity than themselves.
							Have not both classes failed to draw aside the vail, and to look within and beyond?
							And have they not both failed to see the common dependence of all ranks and
							professions? They do not stand independent of each other—they are simply parts
							of one great whole, units in one great aggregate; nor can one be withdrawn without
							detriment to all. Does the tiller of the soil fail to perceive that he is indebted on
							all sides to science, and that science originated with men of thought? For the steel
							that points his plow, gives edge to his ax, motion to his watch; for the reaper that
							cuts down his grain, for the machine that threshes it, for the mill that grinds it;
							for the glass in his window; for the telegraph, that gives him the latest news; for
							the railroad, that brings a market for his produce to his door; for these, and a
							hundred other things, he is more or less indebted to science—for though men of
							action may have made the application of the principle, yet science points the way. But
							what about those who write books, look about among the rocks, or stay in observatories
							and watch the stars? To those star-gazers we are indebted for our almanacs, for much
							of our chronology; for the accuracy of the science of navigation, which makes the
							ocean a highway of commerce, and gives to the peasant luxuries which, a few years ago,
							kings could not command. I will answer the question respecting book writers, by asking
							another: When has a nation long survived the decline of its literature?
						Neither can the thinker have leisure to indulge in thought, except he is assisted by
							the laborer. Nor is one position less honorable than another. The honor  is invested in the man, and it is an investment not to be
							disturbed by the mere circumstances of place. "There are servants on horses, and
							princes walking as servants on the earth." Then should all strife and jealousy
							respecting place be laid aside; let each find his proper sphere, and be content.
							Strike out the thinkers from a community, you take the brain from the body, leaving
							idiocy instead of manhood; remove the laborer, you cut off the hands and feet, and the
							body perishes from starvation. The more the curtain is drawn aside, the less we see
							through a glass darkly, the more do we see this common dependence in all created
							objects. In the crowded city, population has outrun the demand for labor; wages are
							reduced; men are idle, for the want of something to be done; idleness leads to misery,
							misery leads to crime; the whole community feels the effects.
						Far away from the habitations of men, deep down in the earth, lies hidden a mass of
							iron ore. The geologist points out its locality; the mathematician shows where cuts,
							levelings and excavations must be made, in order to construct a road; the philosopher
							ascertains that steam may be made a motive power; the machinist, following out the
							teachings of the former, constructs an engine. Brain has created a demand for muscle;
							those who were idle, because no man employed them, and whom starvation stared in the
							face, now find 'remunerative employment in digging down hills, throwing-up
							embankments, laying down tracks, until the road is completed. Then the mine is to be
							opened, furnaces reared, machinery erected—work to be done, requiring not only
							strength but intellect. The ore is brought up  from its
							hiding place and is ready for conversion into metal, when a new want is discovered:
							there must be coal to smelt it. A new mine must be opened, more labor is called into
							requisition, more roads are constructed, more engines made—other men find
							employment. Employment diminishes the chances of temptation; temptation removed,
							hearts are more susceptible to virtuous influences; character is elevated; peace and
							plenty abound, where want and crime formerly prevailed. Nor do the influences thus set
							in motion stop here. The ore transformed into iron, must be transported to different
							parts of the world; then is created a demand for the merchant who shall find a market
							for it, and shall also supply those engaged in its manufacture with food, clothing,
							and the essentials of life. Experience again tells mankind that even a company of boys
							can not play a game of marbles or foot-ball, without rules by which they shall be
							governed; and still less can all the complicated affairs of society be carried on
							without some common plan of government. Hence the necessity for legislators and
							expounders of the law.
						But the chain of connection is no more complete here than we find it elsewhere. Plan
							is apparent in all the works of the Creator. The fin of the fish, the wing of the
							bird, the hoof and leg of the cow or the horse, are all but undeveloped arms, hands
							and fingers, that find their perfection in man. Chemistry and* botany abound with
							analogies, types and shadows. What are our original thinkers but chemical elements of
							society? The iron and the silver and the gold of humanity—valuable in
							themselves, yet capable of combining  in an indefinite
							number of proportions. Is not nitrogen a fair type of the sluggish man, and phosphorus
							of the irritable one?
						A teacher of the highest authority has shown what lessons may be learned from the fig
							tree, the grain of mustard, and the lilies of the field. To enumerate all the
							analogies of any science, were to trace it out in all its bearings and relations. Each
							one has its vail, which must be rent before its beauties are revealed; there is a
							within, into which we must look ere we are worthy to be admitted only into the outer
							court. That so many students fail to draw aside the curtain, is one reason why so many
							possess knowledge without wisdom. They are like Sully said of King James: "The wisest
							fool in all Europe." One may learn the whole list of chemical elements and their
							combining proportions, and yet not be a chemist; or the whole nomenclature of
							botanical names, and yet fail to perceive any of the uses or the beauties of
							botany.
						In conclusion, if we look within the vail, we will find that the best history of a
							nation is often embalmed in its literature. In this we see the true character of a
							people, for here is embodied their real thoughts. A professed historian may be so
							prejudiced in his judgment as to fail to do justice to the events he records; but the
							literary author, whose works are at all popular, must be the exponent of the popular
							mind and heart of a nation-his testimony is indirect, and for that reason is often the
							more valuable.
					

					
					
						"LEARN TO LABOR AND TO WAIT"
						It is not always that a single line, while it pleases, at the same time conveys so
							much practical instruction. Its first injunction, "Learn to labor," contains the
							motive power, the very mainspring of success, in every undertaking. There have been a
							few occasions, in the world's progress, when men have stepped at once from obscurity
							into public notice, without any seeming preparation; but such instances are the
							exception and not the rule—especially is it so, at the present day. This is
							emphatically the iron age; an age, when fortunes and character are wrought out by
							ponderous blows upon the iron anvil of Patience, by the iron arm of Determination. For
							every one who would succeed, it is labor, either with the head or the hands, or with
							both. Many persons overlook this important fact. They see the results of unremitting
							toil in the accumulated fortune or in the mine of hoarded knowledge, but forget to
							notice the days and nights of toil required to accomplish this. But it is to the
							latter part of the precept that we would more especially call attention. Many there
							are who are willing to labor, but who have not yet learned to wait. They must see the
							immediate results of their efforts, or else they grow impatient; and, not
							infrequently, this impatience is the cause of failure. Young persons are too apt to
							imagine that they are losing time, because they are not participating in the scenes of
							active life—too apt to think that the world is needing their services;
							consequently, they rush into the conflict, often wholly unprepared. It were better to
							silently and patiently labor and wait until they  are
							called for. If they are really needed, after they are fully qualified they will most
							likely be found out. The man who has constructed and lighted a torch for himself, will
							soon find others flocking to him for light. He does not have to run around, begging
							people to come to him; they come of their own accord. He needs only to be sure of his
							own light, and then wait.
						Often, after we think ourselves fully prepared, it is still well for us to "bide our
							time." Although the apostles had long followed the Saviour—had sat at His feet
							and listened to His teachings, and we would think them well qualified to go forth to
							preach the glad tidings—nevertheless, it was found necessary for them to tarry.
							Moses, after he was learned in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, was yet required to
							spend forty years in retirement before he should go forth into active service; and
							even the Christ, after He could successfully dispute with the doctors and the lawyers,
							must needs retire for years amid the quiet hills and valleys of Nazareth, ere His
							mission fairly commenced. Instances in our own day and time might be enumerated, which
							would go to prove the same thing, but they are unnecessary. Nearly all great results
							are brought about only after a time of waiting; nor are there many difficulties that
							can not be surmounted by those who are willing to labor and wait.
					

					
					
						EXTRACTS FROM ADDRESSES AND MORNING TALKS
						Which Many of His Pupils Will Recognize
						Cultivate mirth and cheerfulness; there are enough trials and dark hours. Let us
							learn from nature. After the storm, the clouds and the thunder, the fire and the
							earthquake, the sky reveals again its depths of azure, the stars twinkle in their
							courses, the sun shines upon the earth, the laughing stream goes rippling on its way,
							and every spring the flowers bloom as brightly as when the world was in its
							infancy.
						War drives his rude plowshare over the earth, and leaves her torn and bleeding and
							desolate; but nature comes, with gentle smiles, and binds up the ghastly wounds with
							flowers and fruits, green herbage and golden grain, and bids man dry his tears and
							rejoice in her beneficence and in her rejoicing; for the pastures are again clothed
							with flocks, the valleys are covered with corn; they shout for joy, they also
							sing.
						Let us be thankful for the ministry of smiles, and that they are more frequent than
							tears; and for the ability to turn, at times, from the burden of life, and to rejoice
							with those who rejoice as well as to weep with those who weep.
						It is the pen, more than the sword—the
							thought, more than the action, that embalms a nation's memory. The poets and
							historians of Greece are far better known than her kings and warriors.


						

						When farewells are forever, then should words be few. Our deepest feelings do not
							find expression in speech; even tears fail to give them utterance.
						I have stood in the mountain-enclosed valley, and looked up to those high altars of
							earth, those monuments of eternity, whose summits literally pierce the clouds, and
							have seen them, at one time, covered with a light wreath of vapor, to which the
							evening sun had imparted its own gorgeous tints of gold, violet and crimson, until
							that which had been a mantle of darkness was transformed into a crown of glory. In the
							silence which reigns in those regions, there is a voice which speak volumes to those
							who listen. It tells of the omniscience of God—of the insignificance of man. Nature
							puts her finger on her lips, and bids all to keep silent save the murmuring of the
							mountain stream and sighing of the mountain breeze, which go on their way, singing
							their hymn of praise. It seems like irreverence to trifle or to speak lightly in this
							great sanctury. Niagara, with her voice of thunder and mantle of rainbow, is not more
							impressive than this silence.
						So far as I am acquainted with history, no great reform has ever been accomplished in
							a republic until the people have been interested in the work; nor do
							I know that any earnest attempt by earnest men, in a worthy cause, has ever been a
							failure. The muscular contractions and relaxations of the human heart, rightly  brought to bear, would, in an ordinary lifetime, wear away
							a stone column of no small dimensions. What, then, may we expect from the throbbings
							of an earnest heart, moved to action by the impulses of a soul enlisted in the
							uplifting of humanity?
						The man who, at first sight, appears to wield the greatest power, is not always the
							one whose influence is greatest or most widely extended. A song or a poem is
							oftentimes mightier than the edict of an emperor. The "Marseillaise" convulsed France
							to the center; and "Rally 'Round the Flag, Boys," and "John Brown's Soul is Marching
							On," have stirred more hearts to deeds of valor than the patriotic orations of a score
							of politicians, who were ready to sacrifice their last brother-in-law for the good of
							their country.
						In most instances, position has to be earned. And should a young man be so fortunate,
							or unfortunate, as to have friends who are able to place him, at once, higher than the
							rank and file, the time will come, sooner or later, when that influence will be
							withdrawn, and he will be left to maintain his position by his own exertions. But, I
							must not forget my own suggestion that, after all the advice that can be given,
							everyone at last fixes his own destiny. We can but earnestly pray that you may be true
							to your higher and better natures. Lean ever to that side which is allied to divinity.
							Learn to accept cheerfully what cannot be  avoided.
							Begin now to learn how to grow old gracefully. If you find anyone who has learned the
							secret of extracting sunshine, from either clouds or cucumbers, purchase the recipe,
							though with your last farthing; set the machinery in motion, and keep it forever
							going. Thrice blessed are they who have learned the art of making others happy, for,
							with them, responsibility has already been exchanged for reward.
						All real character must have its foundation in the heart; whoever builds elsewhere,
							builds upon a quicksand. It is from the heart that all true refinement, all true
							politeness, springs, and these are among the essentials of a good character.
						One object of an education should be to give us wider views and deeper insight, to
							enable us to look beyond our own prejudices and conceits; and, above all, to give us
							charity one for another.
						While the Jew looks for the restoration of the old, the Christian expects the coming
							of the new Jerusalem, whose fountains shall be the river of life, whose temple is the
							kingdom of heaven, the shechinah of which is the glory of the Lamb, and whose Mount
							Zion is the throne of God, and against whose walls shall come up no besieging army,
							nor shall any destroying host camp round about it.


						

						We lose our lives that we may find them again, and we die that we may become new
							creatures, so that in the new creature who is born, and in the new life that is
							formed, all selfishness shall have been put aside, and in our characters there shall
							be left no trace of egotism.
						Rising out of the low plane of the appetites and desires, we ascend the mount of
							beatitudes, and we learn that there is no spot on earth so desolate but there may be
							found a mount of transfiguration.
						We often hear quoted, "Children, obey your parents and teachers;" but there is
							another command, of high authority, which is not so often repeated, but which, in my
							opinion, is about as necessary as the other; it is this: "Provoke not your children to
							anger." We may never know how many an amiable temper has been spoiled; in how many
							minds malice, hate and revenge have been engendered, by children having been provoked 
							to anger by parents and teachers.
						He who refrains from speaking of the little improprieties of others, merely as a
							matter of conversation, is not likely to become a slanderer or tale-bearer.
						The dweller in the West makes a visit to Cape May or Long Branch, and from the beach
							he gazes out upon the expanse of waters, to the limit of his vision, and  returns to tell his friends at home of the character and
							extent of the ocean. The sailor, who crosses it repeatedly and traverses it from its
							northern to its southern limits, will tell you that he has seen but a speck of its
							vast expanse. He, and not the landsman, has the true idea of its great extent. So it
							is with our ideas of the truth; he who goes farthest and sinks his plummet deepest,
							will not only have the most exalted conception of God and his attributes, but he is
							likely to be most humble.
						The purest air is found on lofty elevations, and if we would escape egotism we must
							ascend above the plane of selfishness.
						Because clouds occasionally cross the sky, is there, for that reason, no sun in the
							firmament? and because our souls are sometimes darkened by sorrow, is there, on that
							account, no God in heaven?
						The past is a mental landscape, and as have been our actions, so will be its beauty
							or desolation; and so will the breezes of memory that sweep over it be incense from
							the groves of Araby, or deadly miasma from Pontine marshes.
						The oak, the maple and the walnut, all draw the same material from the earth; but the
							leaves and wood which each elaborates from the sap, are very different. So, different
							minds grasp the same idea, and each brings forth some other thought or idea, original
							to the mind which conceived it.


						

						The mushroom springs up in a night, but the oak requires a century.
						We have so long been told that, what man has done, man can do, that it is rather
							humiliating to be told there are some things we can not do, nor will all the culture
							of the schools ever enable us to accomplish them; things, too, which other men will do
							without any seemingly great effort. But we must not forget that effort and preparatory
							training are necessary to enable us to act out the full measure of our capabilities.
							No great man was ever great without exertion. But there are differences of capability
							that no amount of culture can equalize. No course of gymnastics can enable the goose
							to soar with the eagle. No system of hot-house culture can produce oaks from cabbage
							seed; indeed, we will often fail, even if we plant acorns.
						There must be earnestness and fervency of spirit and fullness of heart. There must be
							life—life. A heart without love and sympathy is only a senseless lump of flesh,
							and a body without, a soul is a corpse, not a man.
						A man has been unfortunate in business; his plans have been poorly laid or
							misfortunes have overtaken him, his property has been swept away, and men say that he
							has failed. But let us withhold our verdict, for
							the end is not yet. When death calls for him to render up his last account, ask not
							how much money he has gained or lost, but was he honest, generous, kindhearted,  respecting man and fearing God? And, if an answer in the
							affirmative can be given, count not his life a failure, but a success.
						Muddy water often has the appearance of great depth, when it is in reality very
							shallow; so authors sometimes write in a mysterious or obscure style, hoping that it
							may be mistaken for profundity. The fiercest battle-field on earth is the human heart;
							it is a field whereon angels and demons contend for the mastery.
						The fountain-head of human life is Heaven; and the spirit-yearnings which we so often
							experience, are the struggles of the soul in its endeavors to return to its original
							source.
						The call of worldly pleasure is a shout; the teachings of the spirit is a still,
							small voice.
						The memory of the past often comes over the soul like the fragrance from a hidden
							garden of roses, or an unseen grove of spices.
						Some men are like artesian wells; they possess a vast amount of knowledge, but you
							have to bore so far for it, that the returns do not justify the expense. A shallow
							well or a wayside spring is often more beneficial to the world than those deeper
							bores.


						

						A wonderful thing is Memory! How many a secret chamber is there, in which some relic
							of the past is hidden away and into which even ourselves can not find access, only
							when accident has furnished the key by which it is unlocked! But there is a day
							coming, when the deep shall give up its dead; and among the cherished by-gones which
							shall then be resurrected, not the least important will be old songs, learned and
							loved in the days of life's June.
						No man ever became a great author without first becoming a great thinker.
						If we could really know the inner life of many of the men whom the world has been
							accustomed to call great, the epitaph which would best express the history of their
							lives, would be, "Failure;" while on the tomb of many a one who lived unknown to fame,
							there might in truth be written, "Success."
						Men may affect an independence, but they can not, by that alone, change the current
							of events; and, after all, they must respect the feelings and opinions of others, or
							else they are passed by. The pebble may glory in being a pebble, but for all that it
							will be trodden upon; while the flower, that scarcely brings itself into notice and
							bends to every breeze, the passersby stop to admire.
					
				
			
		




	
