
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Coulter, John Merle, 1851-1928. The phylogeny of angiosperms. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University ($2012).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAC0869
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		
			

				

				THE PHYLOGENY OF ANGIOSPERMS
				
			
		

		
			
				

				

				THE PHYLOGENY OF ANGIOSPERMS
					JOHN M. COULTER

				THE views presented in this paper are in the main based upon numerous
					investigations conducted by members of the botanical staff and graduate students. The
					accounts of these investigations, extending through a period of six years, have been
					published from time to time, chiefly in the Botanical Gazette, but their
					bearing upon the problem of the phylogeny of Angiosperms has never been presented. It
					would be confusing to cite the literature involved in this presentation, as it would mean
					an extensive bibliography and is in the main familiar to students of the Angiosperms. The
					purpose is to present in as compact form as possible the bearings of our present knowledge
					upon a problem of great obscurity. The phylogeny of any great group will probably always
					remain a baffling problem, incapable of actual demonstration, and yet theories of
					phylogeny serve to co-ordinate knowledge and stimulate investigation. It should be stated
					that when similarity of structure was taken to be a sure indication of genetic
					relationships, the problem promised an approximate solution. But since it has been proved
					that similar structures may develop independently, the difficulty of solution has become
					apparently insurmountable.

				The first phase of the problem has to do with the common or independent origin of the
					Monocotyledons and Dicotyledons. The current view assumes their monophyletic origin, a
					view based largely upon the great uniformity of the peculiar development of the female
					gametophyte. It is argued that the independent origin of such exact details of development
					and structures is inconceivable. The peculiar female gametophyte of Angiosperms, however,
					has been found to vary enough to indicate that it is an extreme expression of tendencies
					evident in the heterosporous Pteridophytes and Gymnosperms; in other words, an ultimate
					result of heterospory. Further, nothing is more clear than that heterospory has originated
					independently in several plant groups; and the assumption that its ultimate expressions,
					the seed and the angiospermous female gametophyte, have been reached by only one line
					seems more than improbable.

				This somewhat theoretical objection to the current argument in favor of the monophyletic
					origin of Angiosperms is strengthened by certain fundamental differences between the
					Monocotyledons and Dicotyledons. The differences in the development of the embryos of the
					two groups are hard to reconcile upon the theory of monophyletic origin. Recent
					investigations of all of those Dicotyledons that have been called
					"pseudo-monocotyledonous," on account of their apparently terminal cotyledon and lateral
					stem-tip, have shown a normal dicotyledonous embryology with more or less complete
					abortion of one of the cotyledons and displacement of the stem-tip through the development
					of the functional cotyledon. Again, the differences in the structure  of the stem and in the character of its vascular bundles are far more
					difficult to connect genetically than to refer to a polyphyletic origin, with all that
					that implies. One of the strongest arguments against the monophyletic theory comes from
					historical testimony. The "Proangiosperms" of the Lower Cretaceous, so far as known,
					appeared associated with undoubted Monocotyledons, and merged gradually into recognizable
					Dicotyledons, without indicating any relationship to the Monocotyledons. The emerging of
					Dicotyledons from this vague group either indicates that they originated independently, or
					that the Proangiosperms were transition forms between Monocotyledons and Dicotyledons. The
					latter alternative is inconceivable, especially since the most primitive Dicotyledons are
					now recognized to be more primitive than any of the Monocotyledons.

				It is of interest to note that recent anatomical investigations contradict the current
					view that Monocotyledons are the more primitive, and Dicotyledons derived from them, and
					show, so far as the development of the vascular system is concerned, that Monocotyledons
					are derived from Dicotyledons in case they have a common phylogeny.

				All the testimony available, morphological, historical, and anatomical, seems most
					consistent when interpreted in favor of the polyphyletic origin of Angiosperms.

				The second phase of the problem is to determine whether the Angiosperms have been derived
					from Gymnosperms or from Pteridophytes. The general question is the same whether one
					believes in their monophyletic origin or not. The older view is that Angiosperms are
					phylogenetically related to Gymnosperms, and Gnetum has been regarded as
					the nearest living representative of a transition condition between Gymnosperms and
					Angiosperms. The argument is based upon such angiospermous characters in Gnetum as the absence of archegonia, the organization of eggs while the
					gametophyte consists only of free cells, the presence of a perianth and true vessels, and
					the dicotyledonous leaves. This showing is certainly strong, and especially in the
					structure of the embryo sac does Gnetum show characters that may well
					illustrate a stage in the Angiosperm phylum; but that it actually represents the group
					from which the Angiosperms were derived seems unlikely. In fact, the historical argument
					against such a claim is very strong, for there is no evidence that Gnetum or allied forms existed among the numerous Angiosperms of the Cretaceous
					and Tertiary. If it were related in any way to the origin of so dominant a group as the
					Angiosperms, it seems probable that it would have left some evidence of its existence. Nor
					is it of special avail to claim that fossil Gnetales may be found in the tropics or in the
					Southern Hemisphere, for the great uniformity of climate during early periods has left the
					records of tropical vegetation in the temperate and even boreal regions of today; so that
					the strata of the tropics are not likely to reveal prominent types of vegetation
					unrepresented in the strata of temperate regions.

				The argument from the presence of a "perianth" is particularly vulnerable, since the
					structure so-called merely represents the bracts common among Gymnosperms, and  the most primitive Angiosperms have no perianth. Further, the
					presence of true vessels in the secondary wood is an argument as much in favor of the
					origin of Angiosperms from certain heterosporous Pteridophytes as from Gnetum. Every indication points to the conclusion that Gnetum is
					a highly specialized and comparatively recent member of the Gymnosperm phylum, and as such
					could not have given rise to the Angiosperms.

				If the Gymnosperms are not the ancestral forms of the Angiosperms, the direct derivation
					of the latter from Pteridophytes becomes a matter of course. Perhaps it was natural to
					turn at first to the heterosporous Pteridophytes, and among them the only forms that could
					seem to be within the range of probability are Selaginella and Isoetes. The latter has been persistently associated with the origin of
					the Monocotyledons, especially in connection with the former idea that Monocotyledons are
					the primitive Angiosperm stock. Any supporter of this view now would be almost forced to
					maintain the polyphyletic origin of Angiosperms. The most striking resemblance of Isoetes to the Monocotyledons occurs in the embryo, in which the single
					cotyledon is terminal and the stem-tip lateral. A thorough investigation of Isoetes, however, has developed so many difficulties in the way of accepting it as
					related in any way to the Monocotyledons that the theory must be regarded as
					untenable.

				The only possible alternative as to the origin of Monocotyledons, in case they have
					arisen independently of the Dicotyledons, is to regard them as the end of a heterosporous
					line that developed independently from the eusporangiate Filicales, whose Pteridophyte
					members are extinct. Since several independent heterosporous lines are already recognized,
					it is not at all necessary to connect any seed-plants with living heterosporous
					Pteridophytes.

				More important, however, seems to be the determination of the origin of the Dicotyledons,
					whether they represent an independent phylum or the primitive angiospermous stock. The
					fact that they emerged from the so-called "Proangiosperms," which were largely displayed
					in the earlier part of the lower Cretaceous, seems to be fairly well established. The
					question, therefore, has to do with the origin of the Proangiosperms. They do not seem to
					warrant the belief that they represent a common stock from which both Monocotyledons and
					Dicotyledons have been derived, for the Monocotyledons are believed to have existed in
					unmistakable forms before the large assemblage of Proangiosperms gave rise to unmistakable
					Dicotyledons. Still less conceivable is it that Proangiosperms represent the transition
					forms from Monocotyledons to Dicotyledons, for nothing in their known structure seems to
					suggest such a view. That they were derived from Gnetum-like forms is
					discredited by the fact that there is no sure record of the existence of Gnetum at such an early period, and to have given rise to such an assemblage of
					forms it must have been a conspicuous group.

				If we turn to the earlier groups that were sufficiently prominent and at all suggestive
					of having given rise to the Proangiosperms, we encounter the Coniferales, Cycadales,
					Lycopodiales, and Filicales. The Gymnosperm origin of Dicotyledons  seems to be most unlikely with the exclusion of Gnetum. At
					the same time, it might be claimed that Dicotyledons represent an independent line from
					the Gymnosperm stock, that advanced in the same direction and much farther than did the
						Gnetum line; but all the essential morphology of the Gymnosperms is
					less favorable to such an origin than is that of the heterosporous Pteridophytes.

				The Lycopodiales certainly deserve serious consideration in this connection. The
					structures of Selaginella are about as suggestive of Dicotyledons as
					those of Isoetes are suggestive of Monocotyledons, the embryo being as
					distinctly dicotyledonous as that of Isoetes is monocotyledonous, and
					our study of Selaginella has shown the strikingly seed-like character of
					the megasporangium. But a seed may be attained by any heterosporous line, and Selaginella and even its ancient Lycopodium stock have too many
					peculiarities to be considered seriously as ancestral types of Angiosperms.

				The only other alternative is that mentioned in connection with the origin of the
					Monocotyledons, namely the derivation of the Proangiosperms as an independent
					heterosporous line from the abundant ancient eusporangiate Filicales, and this view is
					supported by anatomical testimony.

				It is becoming increasingly evident that the great marattiaceous plexus of the Paleozoic
					probably gave rise to several heterosporous lines, one or more of which have certainly
					been responsible for the Gymnosperms, and others have led to the Angiosperms. As
					heterospory may lead to seed-formation in any line, it is inconceivable that only one or
					at most two of the numerous heterosporous lines have attained seed-production. It is more
					probable that the Angiosperms have arisen from the Marattia-like ferns in several
					independent lines; that the group known as Angiosperms is determined by its attainment of
					seed-production rather than its monophyletic origin; but that in a certain sense it has a
					common phylogeny and hence numerous characters in common.

				A summary of these conclusions may be stated as follows:

				1. The Monocotyledons and Dicotyledons comprise at least two independent angiospermous
					lines, and do not represent a single phylum.

				2. No Angiosperm phylum has been derived from the Gymnosperms or from living
					heterosporous Pteridophytes.

				3. All Angiosperm phyla have been derived as independent heterosporous lines from the
					ancient eusporangiate Filicales, which also gave rise to the Gymnosperms.

				4. Several Angiosperm phyla probably arose independently from the marattiaceous plexus of
					the Palamozoic.

				5. If Angiosperms have a monophyletic origin, which seems very unlikely, it seems clear
					that the Monocotyledons have been derived. from the more primitive Dicotyledons.
			
		
	

