
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Cooke, Marjorie Benton, 1876-1920. Tit for tat. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2012).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAC0867
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
				
		
		
				
			COVER
	
					SCHOOL PLAYS, Number 10
					

					TIT FOR TAT
					
				BY
					MARJORIE BENTON COOKE
				
					CHICAGO
					THE DRAMATIC PUBLISHING COMPANY
				
	
			

				

				PRACTICAL INSTRUCTIONS
						FOR PRIVATE THEATRICALS

				By W. D. EMERSON.
				Author of "A Country Romance," "The Unknown Rival." "Humble Pie," etc.

				Price, 25 cents.

				Here is a practical hand-book, describing in detail all the
					accessories, properties, scenes and apparatus necessary for an amateur production. In
					addition to the descriptions in words, everything is clearly shown in the numerous
					pictures, more. than one-hundred being inserted in the book. No such useful book has ever
					been offered to the amateur players of any country.

				CONTENTS.

				Chapter I. Introductory Remarks.

				Chapter II. Stage, How to Make, etc. in drawing-rooms or parlors, with
					sliding or hinged doors. In a single large room. The Curtain; how to attach it, and raise
					it, etc.

				Chapter III. Arrangement of Scenery. How to hang it. Drapery,
					tormentors, wings, borders, drops.

				Chapter IV. Box Scenes. Center door pieces, plain wings, ,door wings,
					return pieces, etc.

				Chapter V. How to Light the Stage. Oil, gas and electric lights.
					Footlights, Sidelights, Reflectors. How to darken the stage, etc.

				Chapter VI. Stage Effects. Wind, Rain, Thunder, Breaking Glass, Falling
					Buildings, Snow, Water, Waves, Cascades, Passing Trains, Lightning, Chimes, Sound of
					Horses' Hoofs, Shots.

				Chapter VII. Scene Painting.

				Chapter VIII. A Word to the Property Man.

				Chapter IX. To the Stage Manager.

				Chapter X. The Business Manager.

				

				Address Orders to THE DRAMATIC PUBLISHING COMPANY.
						CHICAGO.
			

			

			
				
					TIT FOR TAT
					
					A PLAY FOR LITTLE FOLKS
				

				
					BY
					MARJORIE BENTON COOKE
				

				

				
					COPYRIGHT, 1906, BY THE DRAMATIC PUBLISHING COMPANY
					
					CHICAGO AND NEW YORK
					THE DRAMATIC PUBLISHING COMPANY
				
			
	
				


				CHARACTERS.


				BOBBY.
					THE SPARROW.
				BESSIE.
					THE CAT.
				ARABELLA-- a wax doll.
					THE WITCH.
				MAMMY JANE-- a black doll.
					THE CROCUS.
				LORD FAUNTLEROY-- a boy doll.
					THE VIOLET.
				THE RABBIT.
					THE MOUSE.
	

			
			
				COSTUMES.

				BOBBY and BESSIE in simple childish clothes.
				ARABELLA-- An elaborate blond doll, with silk dress and big hat.
				FAUNTLEROY-- Dressed in a Lord Fauntleroy suit, with sash and hat.
				MAMMY JANE-- Calico dress, red bandanna
					handkerchief, face blacked.
				THE RABBIT-- Pajama suit of white cotton flannel,
					with long ears.
				THE SPARROW-- A sort of bag-like garment, made of
					gray paper cambric, gathered in at the knees, like bloomers. Paper muslin wings attached
					to the arms, and a long beak put on over the nose, if possible. The beak is not
					necessary.
				THE MOUSE-- Gray paper cambric pajama suit, with
					long tail.
				VIOLET-- Violet dress, with artificial violets on it. Wreath of
					violets in the hair.
				CROCUS-- Yellow dress. A big tissue paper crocus worn as a hat.
				THE CAT-- White domino suit, with long tail.
				WITCH-- Long black cloak, big pointed shoes. She should have scraggly
				gray hair, and carry a broomstick wand.
					
					
					
		
		
			
			
			
			
				TIT FOR TAT.

				

				
					
SCENE I
					
					[SCENE I.-- Playroom of
						Bobby's
						and
						Bessie's
						home. There is a window at the left, where
						Bobby
						stands, looking out. The room is littered with toys. There is a door at the
							back of the stage.]

					
						Bob.
						Ah, say-- will you look at it rain? It always rains on Saturday. We have good weather
							all week, and then it goes and pours all day Saturday and Sunday!
					

					
						Bessie.
						Why don't you read or practise your scales?
					

					
						Bob.
						Read! Practise! What do you take me for? Come on-- put up your old duds and let's
							have some fun.
					

					
						Bessie.
						You always play such rough games.
					

					
						Bob.
						Come on-- we'll play something quiet-- like Indians.
					

					
						Bessie.
						[Jumps up.] I fen to be Minnehaha-- Laughing
							Water.
					

					
						Bob.
						All right. I'll be Rain-in-the-Face and capture you.
					

					
						Bessie.
						I'll get out all my dolls, so you can have a nice massacre. [She
									takes her dolls out one by one, and ranges them in a row.] Here's
							Arabella. Now, Bobby, promise you'll tomahawk Arabella gently, she's my Sunday best
							doll. [Bob
								begins to build tent with chairs and a table cover.]
					

					
						Bob.
						All right.
					

					
						Bessie.
						Lord Fauntleroy's wig is a little loose, so don't jerk it.
					

					
						Bob.
						Nope.
					

					
						Bessie.
						Mammy Jane's all right. She's only rag, anyway, so you can scalp her as hard as you
							like.
					

					
						Bob.
						I'll scalp her all right.
					

					
						Bessie.
						Shall I put the Rabbit out too? You might shoot him for a rabbit pie!
					

					
						Bob.
						Sure-- put him out. I'll get the cat and we'll dress her up. [Bob
								runs out to get cat. Bessie
								wraps blanket about her and puts on an Indian head-dress.
								Bob
								rushes in with the cat.] Here she is-- now, you fix her
							up. [Bessie
								takes cat and  dresses her in baby doll's
									dress, with cap and shawl.
								Bob
								puts on feather head-dress and gets tomahawk. He sees a sparrow on the
									window ledge, as he is picking up Indian bow and arrow. He draws bow and takes
									shot-- hits bird, gives wild yell and rushes to window and looks out.
								Bessie
								jumps at his howl, and drops the cat.]
					

					
						Bessie.
						Mercy sake, Bob, what is it?
					

					
						Bob.
						Sparrow. I hit him with the arrow. [Bessie
							runs to window.]
					

					
						Bessie.
						Did you kill him?
					

					
						Bob.
						Sure. See him lying there on the sidewalk. He never knew what struck him! Come on
							now. You and your papoose are sitting in front of the wigwam, [Bessie
								holding the cat, sits in front of tent.] You and these
							squaws are all alone here, when I attack the camp.
					

					
						Bessie.
						I think I'll be catching the Rabbit when you see me. [She seizes
									stick and beats rabbit. With wild yell
								Bob
								descends upon the camp.
								Bessie
								retires to wigwam door, while he begins with
								Arabella.] Be careful now, Bob, that's Arabella!
									[He tosses her aside and seizes Fauntleroy, pulling off his
									wig.] Oh, Bob, now look what you've done! [He
									beats
								Mammy Jane
								fiercely, and then approaches
								Bessie.]
					

					
						Bob.
						Minnehaha-- Laughing Water-- come forth. 'Tis Chief Rain-in-the-Face who calls
							thee.
					

					
						Bessie.
						Spare me, O Chief!
					

					
						Bob.
						Come on out here and meet your doom!
					

					
						Bessie.
						Oh, no, Rain-in-the-Face, I don't want to.
					

					
						Bob.
						Then hand out your papoose.
					

					
						Bessie.
						Never! She is my only child.
					

					
						Bob.
						Then you both shall die.
					

					
						Bessie.
						Well, here she is then, but let me go.
					

					
						Bob.
						All right. [He takes cat, scalps her, and drops her from
									window.] I've dashed her brains out. Another redskin bit the dust!
									[He stalks up stage.]
					

					
						Bessie.
						Now, that horrid Indian has gone, I'll come out. [With yell
								Bob
								descends upon her.] That's not fair, I didn't know you
							were coming.
					

					
						Bob.
						Down on your knees, woman, Gee-- what's that? It's a mouse! [Pretends to see mouse and runs after it, whacking floor with tomahawk.
								Bessie
								gets on chair.]
					

					
						Bessie.
						Did you get it? Is it gone?
					

					
						Bob.
						I hit him all right. I'I1 drop him out the window. [Goes to
									window and drops mouse out.]
					

					
						Bessie.
						My-- he might have bitten you.
					

					

					
						Bob.
						How could he, when he was dead, silly? Come on, now, and get scalped.
					

					
						Bessie.
						No, I don't want to. You always hurt me. [He pulls her onto
									floor.]
					

					
						Bob.
						Farewell forever-- Laughing Water.
					

					[He begins to scalp her roughly, and she cries.
								Enter by door at back
							Old Witch. Children start in terror.]

					
						Witch.
						[Points at
								Bob.] So-- this is the way you treat your little sister,
							is it? And who killed all these Indian women? [Points to dolls.]
					

					
						Bob.
						[Frightened.] I did.
					

					
						Witch.
						And who gave them to you to scalp?
					

					
						Bessie.
						I did, but I told him to be careful.
					

					
						Witch.
						Ha! Who killed the sparrow a little while ago?
					

					
						Bob.
						I did-- but--
					

					
						Witch.
						Who dressed the cat up and made her miserable?
					

					
						Bessie.
						I did-- but--
					

					
						Witch.
						Who killed the rat that ran across the floor?
					

					
						Bob.
						I did-- but--
					

					
						Witch.
						Ha-- you're a pretty pair, you are, spending your holiday making harmless things
							suffer, and teasing one another. What have you to say for yourselves?
					

					
						Bob.
						We didn't have anything to do.
					

					
						Bessie.
						We were only playing.
					

					
						Witch.
						So-- that's all you can think of to excuse your cruelty. Is there any reason why you
							shouldn't be punished for this?
					

					
						Both.
						Oh, don't punish us, good kind Witch, and we'll never do it again.
					

					
						Witch.
						I'll set the rat to gnaw you.
					

					
						Bob.
						Oh no!
					

					
						Witch.
						I'll set the cat to scratch you!
					

					
						Bessie.
						Oh no!
					

					
						Witch.
						I'll set the sparrow to peck you!
					

					
						Both.
						Oh no!
					

					[Witch
							waves her arms.]

					
						Witch.

						And now, fire bubble, water flow,
						Off these wicked children go:
						To a place where they can see
						What comes of just such cruelty.
					
						
	
						[She circles slowly about them. Slowly they begin
									to stiffen up, their arms straight out from their sides, their eyes
									glassy. The
								Witch
								backs up to door and they hot stiffly after her.]

						Come-- come-- come--
						Far from your home.
						Come-- come-- come-- with me
						And I'll show you, in a wink,
						How boys and girls who never think--
						Pay for thoughtless cruelty.
					

					CURTAIN.
				

				

				
					
					SCENE II
					
					[SCENE II.-- Same room. At c., a large arm-chair,
							where the
						Witch
						is enthroned.
						Bobby
						and
						Bessie
						are tied to the arms of her chair with ropes.]

					
						Witch.
						[In loud voice.] Behold a boy and girl caught in the
							act of cruelly maltreating dolls, kittens, birds, mouse, and one another. Behold a boy
							and girl, who snap and snarl about the weather, and pout because it rains. You never
							thought, I suppose, about the flower-children and their needs. Come forth, Crocus and
							Violet-- appear. [Witch
								strikes wand and 2 or 4 little girls, dressed as Crocuses and Violets
									appear and bow before her.
								Witch
								taps them with wand.] Welcome, my pretties, welcome. Tell
							us, flowers, what you wish for most in your kingdom?
					

					
						Crocus.
						O, Witch, we wish for rain-- for if there is none, we all must die.
					

					
						Bob.
						Why must they die?
					

					
						Witch.
						Tell this ignorant boy, Violet, why you need rain.
					

					
						Violet.
						Rain is our food and drink. If we do not have it, we cannot grow.
					

					
						Witch.
						Rain is to the flowers, just what meat and potatoes are to you, Boy. Do you want all
							the trees and grass to die?
					

					
						Bob.
						No, of course not.
					

					
						Witch.
						Well, just think of that next time you grumble about the rain. [Flowers sit at R. and L. of throne.] And now, I summon to this
							court, all the creatures that these two have treated cruelly. Come Arabella,
							Fauntleroy and Mammy Jane. [Enter three children, dressed as the
									dolls. They line up before throne.] Here you are. Bessie, stand
							forth. [Bessie faces them.] Do you know this little
							girl?
					

					

					
						Dolls.
						Yes.
					

					
						Bessie.
						My-how you've grown!
					

					
						Witch.
						Arabella, what do you charge her with?
					

					
						Arabella.
						Well, she's better to me than she is to the others, because I'm her Sunday best, but
							she often leaves me upside down in my box, and she takes off my clothes and leaves me
							to freeze, and worse than that, she lets Bob scalp me with a tomahawk.
					

					
						Bessie.
						You wicked ungrateful Arabella! Why, Witch, she has the loveliest clothes, and I
							always take her when I go out to spend the day, and I hardly ever let her be
							scalped.
					

					
						Witch.
						Silence! Lord Fauntleroy, what have you to say?
					

					
						Fauntleroy.
						My wig has been off for two weeks, and she won't even glue it on, so I have a cold in
							my head all the time. And every once in a while she takes off my boy's clothes and
							puts me in long baby clothes. This is an insult no gentleman can bear.
					

					
						Bessie.
						But, he's such a cute baby doll!
					

					
						Witch.
						Silence! Mammy Jane, what have you to say?
					

					
						Mammy Jane.
						Ma' goodness, the way dat chile maltreats me is a shame. She throws me on de flo'--
							she lets de cat play wid me, she. beats me, an' she lets dat Bob boy mos' pound de
							life outen me, 'cause I'se nuthin' but a rag doll.
					

					
						Witch.
						You've heard the accusations. What is your will, O Dolls?
					

					
						Dolls.
						Let us play with her for about an hour.
					

					
						Arabella.
						I'll stand her upside down!
					

					
						Fauntleroy.
						I'll pull her wig off.
					

					
						Mammy Jane.
						I'll beat her black an' blue
					

					
						Bessie.
						O kind Witch, please don't let them.
					

					
						Witch.
						Dolls, at the end of the trial she is yours. You'll see there are two sides to most
							things, Miss Bessie. I summon the cat. [Enter little girl dressed
									as kitten.] Speak, Kitty, what have you to say against these
							children?
					

					
						Kitty,
						Bessie dresses me up in baby clothes and makes me lie on my back for hours so I can
							hardly breathe, and Bob pulls my tail and jumps at me in the dark.
					

					
						Witch.
						What punishment shall I order for this cruelty?
					

					
						Kitty.
						Let me play with them for an hour. I'll scratch them and jump at them!
					

					
						Witch.
						Good. At the end of the hour they are yours. I summon the Sparrow. [Enter boy dressed as Sparrow.] Sparrow, what have you to say
							against these children?
					

					
						Sparrow.
						The boy Bob shot me with an arrow and nearly  killed me.
							Our life is one long horror, because there are so many boys to kill us. They poke out
							our nests and steal the eggs and kill our young. Oh, it would be a happy world if
							there were no bad boys in it.
					

					
						Witch.
						What punishment shall I order for this boy?
					

					
						Sparrow.
						Let me ruin his home, and take his things, and shoot at him, and chase him from place
							to place.
					

					
						Bob.
						Oh-- no-- no, good Witch, don't let him.
					

					
						Witch.
						At the end of this hour-- he is yours. I summon the Mouse. [Enter
									child dressed as mouse.] Speak, Mouse, what have you to say about
							this boy?
					

					
						Mouse.
						He killed my brother this morning, who was not doing any harm to anybody. He just
							went into the playroom to see if he could find some crumbs for our mother, who is old
							and sick. This boy saw him and killed him and threw him out the window just for
							fun.
					

					
						Witch.
						What punishment shall I order?
					

					
						Mouse.
						O, let me take him home to the mouse village and we'll tease him and gnaw him, and
							kill him, as he does us.
					

					
						Witch.
						Good-- at the end of this hour, he is yours. I summon the Rabbit. [Enter child dressed as Rabbit.] Speak, Rabbit. What do you
							know against these children?
					

					
						Rabbit.
						I lead a most miserable life, Bob shoots me and Bessie makes me into rabbit pie, and
							the cat chews my ears, and once Bessie cut out my pink button eyes to sew on
							Arabella's dress, so I am blind.
					

					
						Witch.
						Terrible. What punishment shall I order?
					

					
						Rabbit.
						Let me nibble them, and poke them and punch out their eyes!
					

					
						Witch.
						At the end of this hour they are yours. Now, we have heard the whole story--- what
							have the prisoners to say? Bob-- speak.
					

					
						Bob.
						If you please, Mrs. Witch and everybody, I am very sorry for all these things I've
							done, but I have never thought. I just did them for fun, and I didn't know they were
							so mean. If you would let me off this time I'd never do a cruel thing again--
							never.
					

					
						Witch.
						Bessie-- speak.
					

					
						Bessie.
						[Crying.]
						Oh, if you please, kind Witch, I never knew that dolls had feelings, just like mine,
							and I didn't know it hurt the kitty to dress her up, because she lies so still and
							never scratches, and I thought the rabbit was just cotton. I never would have hurt
							them, if I'd thought. I suppose I ought to be punished, but what will our mother do,
							if we are gnawed, and  beaten and shot and pinched and
							cooked? She has only just Bob and me. Oh, Mr. Mouse, your mother has such lots of
							children, and so has yours, Mr. Rabbit and yours, Mr. Sparrow. Could you let us off
							this time, if we promise never to do it again?
					

					
						Witch.
						You've heard their silly excuses. What do you say?
					

					[All confer together-- 
						Bessie
						and
						Bob
						crouch down crying.]

					
						Rabbit.
						Witch, these children have homes, and brains, and education, and we have not, but we
							think they're pretty silly anyhow. However, for their mother's sake, we are going to
							let them off this time, if they will hold up their right hands and swear to be kind to
							flowers, mice, birds, rabbits, cats and dolls forever and ever.
					

					
						Witch.
						Humph-- very foolish of you, I think. I'd make them suffer. Hold up your hands, you
							two.
					

					
						Bob and Bessie.
						We swear to be kind to flowers, mice, birds, rabbits, cats and dolls forever and
							ever-- Amen. And thank you all, dear kind people.
					

					
						Witch.
						If you break your word, I'll come and get you and let these creatures finish you up.
							Begone! Begone ! [Witch
								unties rope, and backs slowly toward door. All the creatures back out
									after her.
								Bobby
								and
								Bessie
								lie at foot of throne. They begin to scratch and yawn, then they sit up
									in terror.]
					

					
						Bessie.
						Oh, Bob!
					

					
						Bob.
						Oh, Bess! [Puts his arms about her. They get up and gaze
									about.]
					

					
						Bessie.
						They've gone!
					

					
						Bob.
						We're saved. But we had a close call. Let's go tell mother. [They
									start to go out, hand in hand.]
					

					CURTAIN.
				
			
		
		

		
			
				BECAUSE I LOVE YOU Drama in Four Acts

				By JOHN A. FRASER

				Author of "A Woman's Honor," "A Noble Outcast," "A Modern Ananias," "Santiago," etc.

				Price, 25 Cents

				Eight male, four female characters. Plays two hours. Modern costumes. This is probably
					the strongest drama written of the modern romantic style. It is a pure love story and its
					sentiment and pathos are of the sterling, honest kind which appeals to every man and woman
					with a human heart. The stage business will be found extremely novel, but easily
					accomplished. The climaxes are all new and tremendously effective. One climax especially
					has never been surpassed.

				CAST OF CHARACTERS

				Imogene Courtleigh. Wilful, wayward and wealthy Juvenile lead
				Ginger. A Gypsy waif Soubrette
				Nance Tyson. Her supposed mother Character
				Prudence Freeheart. A poor relation Old maid comedy
				Horace Verner. An artist and accidentally a married man Juvenile
						lead
				Dink Potts. His chum and incidentally in love with Ginger
					Eccentric comedy
				Ira Courtleigh. Imogene's guardian Heavy
				Buck Tyson. A Gypsy tinker Character comedy
				Elmer Van Sittert. Anglomaniac, New Yorker Dude comedy
				Major Duffy. County Clerk and Confederate veteran Irish comedy
				Squire Ripley. A Virginia landlord Character old man
				Lige. A gentleman of color Negro character
				Note: Squire Ripley and Van Sittert may double.

				SYNOPSIS OF SCENES

				Act 1. "The George Washington," a country tavern in old Virginia. An
					impromptu wedding. "When I was on the boards at old Pott"s theayter." "Horace has fallen
					in love and has done nothing but rave about her ever since." "The marriage ceremony
					performed, I depart, and you will make no attempt ever to see me again." "Except at your
					own request, never !"

				Act 2. Lovers Leap, a Blue Mountain precipice. A daring rescue. "Gold
					does not always purchase happiness, lady." "Do you ever feel the need of a faithful
					friend?" "I do, I do, I'm thinking of buying a bulldog." "Look at the stride of him, and
					Imogene sitting him as if he were a part of herself." Within twenty feet of certain death.
					"Gone? Without even my thanks for such a deed of desperate heroism?"

				Act 3. The Courtleigh Place. A woman's folly. "And you say his father
					was a gentleman?" "I have already refused to sign the document." "Stand back, she is my
					wife."

				Act 4. The "Mountain Studio." "You're too good to let that French girl
					get you." "I struck him full in the face and the challenge followed." "You will not meet
					this man, dear love?" "It shall, at least, be blow for blow." "I release you from your
					promise. Fight that man." "I'm the happiest man in old Virginia, because you love me."

				Address Orders to
				THE DRAMATIC PUBLISHING COMPANY
				CHICAGO
			

			
				

				THE OUTCAST'S DAUGHTER A Drama in Four Acts

				Price, 25 Cents By MARION EDDY

				Ten male, five female and one child characters. Plays two and one-half hours. Modern
					costumes. Three interior, one exterior scenes, all easily arranged where there is any
					scenery at hand. No stronger melodrama has been given the play-loving public. Full of the
					strongest appealing heart interest, intense, pathetic, real life, where joy and laughter
					are mingled with pathos and suffering, but all ending happily. A melodrama without a
					villain or the use of fire arms. Amateurs may play it successfully, it plays itself, and
					it is adapted to strong repertoire companies.

				CAST OF CHARACTERS

				Carl Faber An ex-convict
				Howard Ross A manufacturer
				Dennis Hogan Servant to Ross
				Abel Gardener to Ross
				Judge Havens Of the police court
				Recorder Of the police court
				Lettner Clerk of police court
				Second Court Clerk Clerk of police court
				Two policemen
				Little Hugo Agatha's child
				Agatha Steme Ross' book-keeper
				Ida Rheinhold A retired singer
				Mrs. Wilmuth A washer woman
				Katie Factory girl
				Frances Factory girl

				SYNOPSIS OF SCENES

				Act 1. Ross' private office. "What has given me the honor of this
					visit?" "I will never sing again. My life has been a sad failure." "Good God My mother!"
					"I have done wrong, I confess, but when a mother asks, a child must forgive. Oh, Mr. Ross,
					help me." "You, my rich and famous mother, to you I was nothing, and you-- you are
					nothing-- nothing to me." "Agatha! Agatha! My child! My child!"

				Act 2. Agatha's attic. "My poor father. So young and strong. How I
					could have loved him." "Yes, Katie is right, I have nothing but bread for my sweet child."
					"Madam, I vould lie, if I say she vas anything but a lady." "On the other side, towards
					the garden, there are a few rooms I have never used. If you will take them-" "You do not
					look like a man who could commit murder. How was it?" "I was a weak man and many
					misfortunes made me desperate." "My picture! I must be mad." "You are good, child, but you
					shall not call me father." "Father! Father!"

				Act 3. Ross' Garden, "He is so good to me, but I cannot forget my poor
					unhappy father." "The picture was taken when I was young. He shall have it." "Stay here
					and be my wife." "That suspicious old man is in the garden." "For her I sacrificed
					everything." "Do you want to go to prison again?" "My father needs me to defend and
					comfort him."

				Act 4. A Police Court. "Do not ask me, your honor-- I am an
					ex-convict." "Your silence will not help you." "It vas dark und Mrs. Steme vas that
					scared, she vas faint." "I hope, sor, yer honor believes in a future life, sor." "He
					wished to see his child; I am his child." "Grandfather, we love you." "I am his wife. Do
					not condemn him."

				Address Orders to
				THE DRAMATIC PUBLISHING COMPANY
				CHICAGO
			

			
				

				DIAMONDS AND HEARTS A Comedy Drama in Three Acts

				By EFFIE W. MERRIMANI

				Price, 25 Cents.

				

				This new play has bounded at once into a wide popularity. The good plot, the strong
					"heart" interest, and the abundant comedy all combine to make a most excellent drama.
					"Bub" Barnes is a fine character of the Josh Whitcomb type, and his sister is a worthy
					companion "bit." Sammy is an excruciatingly funny little darky. The other characters are
					good. Fine opportunity for introducing specialties. The play has so many good points that
					it never fails to be a success.

				CAST OF CHARACTERS.

				BERNICE HALSTEAD, a young lady of eighteen, with an affection of the heart, a love for
					fun and hatred of arithmetic

				AMY HALSTEAD, her sister, two years younger, fond of frolic

				INEZ GRAY, a young lady visitor, willing to share in the fun

				MRS. HALSTEAD, a widow, and stepmother of the Halstead girls

				HANNAH MARY BARNES, or "Sis," a maiden lady who keeps house for her brother

				DWIGHT BRADLEY, a fortune hunter and Mrs. Halstead's son by a former marriage

				DR. BURTON, a young physician

				SAMMY, the darky bell-boy in the Halstead house

				ABRAHAM BARNES, or "Bub," a yankee farmer, still unmarried at forty-- a diamond in the
					rough

				ATTORNEY; SHERIFF

				Time of playing, two hours. Two interior scenes. Modern
						costumes.

				SYNOPSIS OF INCIDENTS.

				Act 1. Parlor of the Halstead home. The young doctor. The three girls plot to make his
					acquaintance. An affection of the heart. "Easy to fool a young doctor," but not so easy
					after all. The stepmother and her son. The stolen diamonds. The missing will. Plot to win
					Bernice. "I would not marry Dwight Bradley for all the wealth the world contains." Driven
					from home.

				Act 2. Kitchen of the Barnes' farm house. Bub takes off his boots. The new school ma'am.
					"Supper's ready." "This is our nephew and he's a doctor." Recognition. A difficult problem
					in arithmetic. The doctor to the rescue. "I'm just the happiest girl in the world." "I've
					come to pop the question, an' why don't I do it?" Brother and sister. "If it's a heifer,
					it's teh be mine." The sheriff. Arrested for stealing the diamonds. "Let me knock yer
					durned head off." The jewels found in Bernice's trunk.

				Act 3. Parlor of the Halstead home. "That was a lucky stroke-- hiding those diamonds in
					her trunk." The schemer's plot miscarries. Abe and Sammy join hands. The lawyer. "Bully
					for her." Bradley tries to escape. "No, ye' don't!" Arrested. "It means, dear, that you
					are to be persecuted no more." Wedding presents, and a war dance around them. "It is no
					trick at all to fool a young doctor."

				Address Orders to
				THE DRAMATIC PUBLISHING COMPANY
				CHICAGO
			

			
				

				A WOMAN'S HONOR A Drama in Four Acts

				By JOHN A. FRASER

				Author of "A Noble Outcast," "Sanitago," "Modern Ananias," etc., etc.

				Price, 25 Cents

				Seven male, three female characters. Plays two hours. For intense dramatic action,
					thrilling climaxes, uproarious comedy and a story of absorbing romantic interest, actors,
					either professional or amateur, will find few plays to equal "A Woman's Honor." With
					careful rehearsals they will find a sure hit is made every time without difficulty.

				CAST OF CHARACTERS

				General Mark Lester. A Hero of the Cuban Ten Years War Lead
				Pedro Mendez. His half brother Heavy
				Dr. Garcia. Surgeon of the Madaline Straight
				Gilbert Hall, M. D. In love with Olive Juvenile
				Robert Glenn. A Wall Street Banker Old man
				Gregory Grimes. Lester's Private Secretary Eccentric Comedy
				Ebenezer. Glenn's Butler Negro Comedy
				Olive {Glenn's Daughter} Juvenile lead
				Sally {Glen's Daughter} Soubrette
				Maria. Wife of Pedro Character

				NOTE.-Glenn and Garcia may double.

				Act 1. The Glenn Mansion, New York City.
				Act 2. The Isle of Santa Cruz, off San Domingo. One month later.
				Acts 3 and 4. Lester's home at Santa Cruz. Five months later. Be tween
					Acts 3 and 4, one day elapses.

				SYNOPSIS OF INCIDENTS

				Act 1. Handsome drawingroom at Glenn's. Sally and Ebenezer. "I isn't
					imputtinent, no, no, Missy." "Papa can't bear Gregory Grimes, but I'm going to marry him,
					if I feel like it." "Going away?" "I was dizzy for a moment, that was all." "This marriage
					is absolutely necessary to prevent my disgrace." "General Lester, you are a noble man and
					I will repay my father's debt of honor." "Robert Glenn is dead."

				Act 2. Isle of Santa Cruz. "Mark brings his American bride to h;s home
					today." "You and I and our child will be no better than servants." "How can I help but be
					happy with one so good and kind?" "It means I am another man's wife." "Dat's mine; don't
					you go to readin' my lub lettahs in public."

				Act 3. Sitting-room in Lester's house. "What has happened? Is my
					husband safe?" "Break away, give your little brother a chance." "To tell the truth, my
					heart is breaking." "Debt of duty and I was fool enough to think she loved me."

				Act 4. "The illness of the general has an ugly look." "The gossips have
					it she would rejoice to be rid of her husband." "The Gilbert Hall I loved is dead."
					"Standing on the brink of the grave, my vision is clearer." "Forgive, and I will devote my
					life to making you happy in order to repay the debt I owe you-- a debt of honor."

				Address Orders to
				THE DRAMATIC PUBLISHING COMPANY
				CHICAGO
			


			
				

				TOMPKIN'S HIRED MAN A Drama in Three Acts

				Price, 25 Cents By EFFIE W. MERRIMAN

				This is a strong play. No finer character than Dixey, the hired man, has ever been
					created in American dramatic literature. He compels alternate laughter and tears, and
					possesses such quaint ways and so much of the milk of human kindness, as to make him a
					favorite with all audiences. The other male characters make good contrasts: Tompkins, the
					prosperous, straightforward farmer; Jerry, the country bumpkin, and Remington, the manly
					young American. Mrs. Tompkins is a strong old woman part; Julia, the spoiled daughter;
					Louise, the leading juvenile, and Ruth, the romping soubrette, are all worthy of the best
					talent. This is a fine play of American life; the scene of the three acts being laid in
					the kitchen of Tompkin's farm-house. The settings are quite elaborate, but easy to manage,
					as there is no change of scene. We strongly recommend "Tompkin's Hired Man" as a sure
					success.

				CHARACTERS

				Asa Tompkins-- A prosperous farmer who cannot tolerate deceit.
				Dixey-- The hired man, and one of nature's noblemen.
				John Remington-- A manly young man in love with Louise.
				Jerry-- A half-grown, awkward country lad.
				Mrs. Tompkins-- A woman with a secret that embitters her.
				Julia-- A spoiled child, the only daughter born to Mr. and Mrs.
					Tompkins.
				Louise-- The daughter whom Mr. Tompkins believes to be his own.
				Ruth-- Mr. Tompkin's niece, and a great romp.

				Plays about two hours.

				SYNOPSIS

				Act 1. Sewing carpet rags. "John and I are engaged." "Well, you can
					disengage yourself, for you'll never be married." "Mrs. Clark, she's took worse." Who
					makes the cake? Julia declines to sew carpet rags. "It would ruin my hands for the piano
					or my painting." Dixey to the rescue. "You take the rags a minute, child, and I'll just
					give that fire a boost." Dixey's story. "It breaks his heart, but he gives her away, an'
					he promises never teh let her know as how he's her father." Enter Jerry. "Howdy." John
					gets a situation in the city. Farewell. "It's a dandy scheme, all the same. We'll have our
					party in spite of Aunt Sarah." "Oh, I'm so happy." The quartette. Curtain.

				Act 2. Chopping mince meat. The letter. Louise faints. "How dare you
					read a paper that does not concern you? "You have robbed me of my father's love." The
					mother's story. Dinner. "I swan, I guess I set this table with a pitchfork." "Now,
					Lambkin, tell Dixey all 'bout it, can't yer?" "It looks zif they'd got teh be a change
					here purty darned quick, an' zif I'm the feller 'lected teh bring it 'bout." " None o' my
					bizness, I know, but-- I am her father I" "It's love the leetle one wants, not money." "If
					I'd been a man, I'd never give my leetle gal away." "I'm dead sot on them two
					prop'sitions." Curtain.

				Act 3. Dixey builds the fire. "Things haint so dangerous when
					everybody's got his stummick full." The telegram. "It means that Louise is my promised
					wife." "By what right do you insinuate that there has been treachery under this roof?" "A
					miserable, dirty, little waif, picked up on the streets, and palmed off upon my father as
					his child " "Oh my wife, your attitude tells a story that breaks my heart." "Yeh druve her
					to do what she did, an' yeh haint got no right teh blame her riow." "Friend Tompkins, a
					third man has taken our leetle gal an' we've both got teh larn teh git along without her.
					We kin all be happy in spite o' them two sentimental kids." Curtain.

				Address Orders to
				THE DRAMATIC PUBLISHING COMPANY
				CHICAGO
			

			
				

				UNCLE RUBE An Original Homestead Play in Four
					Acts
				By CHARLES TOWNSEND
				The Finest Rural Drama Ever Published
				Price, 25 Cents

				

				CHARACTERS

				RUBEN RODNEY, (Uncle Rube) Justice of the Peace, School Trustee,
					and a Master hand at "swappin' hosses" Character lead
				SIMON SMARLEY, a smooth and cunning old villain Character heavy
				MARK, his son, a promising young rascal Straight
						heavy
				GORDON GRAY, a popular young artist Juvenile
					lead
				UPSON ASTERBILT, an up-to-date New York dude Character
						comedy
				IKE, the hired man. "I want ter know!" Eccentric
				BUB GREEN, a comical young rustic Low comedy
				BILL TAPPAN, a country constable Comedy
				MILICENT LEE, "the pretty school teacher" Juvenile
						lady
				MRS. MARTHA BUNN, a charming widow Character
						comedy
				TAGGS, a waif from New York Soubrette
				Time-- Mid Autumn. Place-- Vermont.
				Time of Playing-- Two hours and a quarter.

				SYNOPSIS

				ACT I. The Old Homestead. Uncle Rube arrives.
				ACT II. The Constable's office. The plot to ruin Uncle Rube.
				ACT. III. Evening at the old farm. Uncle Rube is arrested.
				ACT IV. The Constable's office again. The old farmer wins!
				This play was written by one of the most popular of American dramatists, whose works have
					sold by the hundreds of thousands. One of the best plays of its class ever written.
					Splendid characters. Powerful climaxes. Bright wit. Merry humor. Very easy to produce.
					Requires only three scenes. No shifts of scenery during any act. Costumes all modern. No
					difficult properties required.

				THE AUTHOR'S OPINION
				MR. TOWNSEND says of this drama, "I consider that 'Uncle Rube' is far superior to any
					play depicting country life that I have yet written."

				

				This is the play for everybody-- amateurs as well as professionals. It can be produced on
					any stage, and pleases all classes, from the most critical city audiences to those of the
					smallest country towns. Printed directly from the author's acting copy, with all the
					original stage directions.

				Address Orders to
				THE DRAMATIC PUBLISHING COMPANY
				CHICAGO
			

			
				

				CAPT. RACKET A Comedy in Three Acts

				By CHARLES TOWNSEND
				Price, 25 Cents

				

				This play by Mr. Townsend is probably one of his most popular productions; it certainly
					is one of his best. It is full of action from start to finish. Comic situations follow one
					after another, and the act endings are especially strong and lively. Every character is
					good and affords abundant opportunity for effective work. Can be played by five men and
					three women, if desired. The same scene is used for all the acts, and it is an easy
					interior. A most excellent play for repertoire companies. No seeker for a good play can
					afford to ignore it.

				CHARACTERS

				CAPT. ROBERT RACKET, one of the National Guard. A lawyer when he has nothing else to
					do, and a liar all the time Comedy lead
				OBADIAH DAWSON, his uncle, from Japan, "where they make tea."
					Comedy old man
				TIMOTHY TOLMAN, his friend, who married for money and is sorry for it. Juvenile man
				MR. DALROY, his father-in-law, jolly old cove Eccentric
				HOBSON, a waiter from the "Cafe Gloriana," who adds to the confusion
					Utility
				CLARICE, the Captain's pretty wife, out for a lark, and up to "anything awful" Comedy lead
				MRS. TOLMAN, a lady with a temper, who finds her Timothy a vexation of spirit Old woman
				KATY, a mischievous maid Soubrette
				TOOTSY, the "Kid," Tim"s olive branch Props.

				SYNOPSIS
				Act I. Place: Tim's country home on the Hudson near New York. Time: A
					breezy morning in September. The Captain's fancy takes a flight and trouble begins.
				Act II. Place: the same. Time: the next morning. How one yarn requires
					another. "The greatest liar unhung." Now the trouble increases and the Captain prepares
					for war.
				Act III. Place: The same. Time: Evening of the same day. More misery. A
					general muddle. "Dance or you'll die." Cornered at last. The Captain owns up. All
					serene.
				Time of playing: Two hours.

				Address Orders to
				THE DRAMATIC PUBLISHING COMPANY
				CHICAGO
			

			
				

				HAGEMAN'S MAKE-UP BOOK. By MAURICE HAGEMAN.

				Autbor of "What Became of Psrker," "Prof. Robinson," "Rector," "Mrs.
						Mulcahy," "The First Kiss," "By Telephone," "To Rent," etc,
				Price, 25 cents.

				The importance of an effective make-up is becoming more apparent to the professional
					actor every year, but hitherto there has been no book on the subject describing the modem
					methods and at the same time covering all branches of the art. This want has now been
					filled. Mr. Hageman has had an experience of twenty years as actor and stage-manager, and
					his well-known literary ability has enabled him to put the knowledge so gained into shape
					to be of use to others. The book is an encyclopedia of the art of making up. Every branch
					of the subject is exhaustively treated, and few questions can be asked by professional or
					amateur that cannot be answered by this admirable hand-book. It is not only the best make-up book ever published, but it is not likely to be superseded by
					any other. It is absolutely indispensable to every ambitious actor.

				CONTENTS.
				Chapter I. General Remarks.
				Chapter II. Grease-Paints, their origin, components and use.
				Chapter III. The Make-up Box. Grese-Paints Mirrors, Face Powder and
					Puff, Exora Cream, Rouge, Liquid Color, Grenadine, Blue for the Eyelids, Brilliantine for
					the Hair, Nose Putty, Wig Paste, Mascaro, Crape Hair, Spirit Gum, Scissors, Artists'
					Stomps, Cold Cream, Cocoa Butter, Recipes for Cold Cream.
				Chapter IV. Preliminaries before Making up; the Straight Make-up and how to
						remove it.
				Chapter V. Remarks to Ladles. Liquid Creams, Rouge, Lips, Eyebrows,
					Eyelashes, Character Roles, Jewelry, Removing Make-up.
				Chapter VI. Juveniles. Straight, Juvenile Make-up, Society Men, Young
					Men in Ill Health, with Red Wigs, Rococo Make-up, Hands, Wrists, Cheeks, etc.
				Chapter VII. Adults, Middle Aged. and Old Men. Ordinary Type of
					Manhood, Lining Colors, Wrinkles, Rouge, Sickly and Healthy Old Age Ruddy Complexions.
				Chapter VIII. Comedy and Character Make-ups. Comedy Effects, Wigs,
					Beards, Eyebrows, Noses, Lips, Pallor of Death.
				Chapter IX. The Human Features. The Mouth and Lips, the Eyes and
					Eyelids, the Nose, the Chin, the Ear, the Teeth.
				Chapter X. Other Exposed Parts of the Human Anatomy.
				Chapter XL. Wigs, Beards, Moustaches, and Eyebrows. Choosing a Wig,
					Powdering the Hair, Dimensions for Wigs, Wig Bands, Bald Wigs, Ladies' Wigs, Beards on
					Wire, on Gauze, Crape Hair, Wool, Beards for Tramps, Moustaches, Eyebrows.
				Chapter XII. Distinctive and Traditional Characteristics. North
					American Indians, New England Farmers, Hoosiers, Southerners, Politicians, Cowboys,
					Miners, Quakers, Tramps, Creoles, Mulatoes, Quadroons, Octoroons, Negroes, Soldiers during
					War, Soldiers during Peace, Scouts, Pathfinders, Puritans, Early Dutch Settlers,
					Englishmen, Scotchmen, Irishmen, Frenchmen, Italians, Spaniards, Portuguese, South
					Americans, Scandinavians, Germans, Hollanders Hungarians, Gipsies, Russians, Arabs, Moors,
					Caffirs, Abyssinians, Hindoos, Malays, Chinese, Japanese, Clowns and Statuary, Hebrews,
					Drunkards, Lunatics, idiots, Misers, Rogues.

				Address Orders to
				THE DRAMATIC PUBLISHING COMPANY
				CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.
			

			
				

				PLAYS.

				BEING the largest theatrical booksellers in the United States, we keep
					in stock the most complete and best assorted lines of plays and entertainment books to be
					found in this country.

				We can supply any play or book published. We have issued a 144-page catalog of the best
					1500 plays and entertainment books published in the U. S. and England. It contains a full
					description of each play, gives a number of characters, time of playing, scenes, costumes,
					etc. This catalogue will be sent out on application.

				The plays described are suitable for amateurs and professionals, and nearly all of them
					may be performed free of royalty. Persons interested in dramatic books should examine the
					catalogue before ordering elsewhere.

				THE DRAMATIC PUBLISHING COMPANY.
				CHICAGO.
			
		
	
