
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Goodwin, T. A. (Thomas Aiken), 1818-1906. A brother's inquest over a brother's grave, or, The question, Who
					murdered Dr. John R. Goodwin?, candidly considered : an appeal to the people of
					Brookville. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2012).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAC0995
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		
			
			
				
					A BROTHER'S INQUEST, Over a Brother's Grave,
						OR THE QUESTION WHO MURDERED DR. JOHN R. GOODWIN? CANDIDLY CONSIDERED.
					
					[AN APPEAL TO THE PEOPLE OF BROOKVILLE.]
				
				BY
					REV. T. A. GOODWIN, A. M.
				
					"Have pity upon me, have pity upon me, O, ye my friends! for the hand of God hath
						touched me."—Job.
				
				
					PRINTED BY THE INDIANAPOLIS BRANCH
					OF THE Women's Christian Temperance Union. READ AND CIRCULATE.
					Indianapolis
					CENTRAL PRINTING CO.,
						24 EAST MARKET ST.1880.
			
			
			
				WOMENS' CHRISTIAN TEMPERANCE UNION.
				
				
					NATIONAL UNION.
					
							PRESIDENT.
							MISS FRANCIS E. WILLARD,
								EVANSTON, ILL.
						
					
							CORRESPONDING SECRETARY.
							MRS. MARY T. BURT,
								BROOKLYN, N. Y.
						
					
							RECORDING SECRETARY.
							MRS. MARY A. WOODBRIDGE,
								RAVENNA, O.
						
					
							ASST. RECORDING SECRETARY.
							MRS. CAROLINE B. BUELL,
								EAST HAMPTON, CON.
						
					
							TREASURER.
							MISS ESTHER PUGH,
								BROOKLYN, N. Y.
						
				
				
				
					INDIANA STATE UNION.
					
							PRESIDENT.
							MRS. Z. G. WALLACE,
								INDIANAPOLIS
						
					
							CORRESPONDING SECRETARY.
							MRS. M. M. FINCH,
								INDIANAPOLIS
						
					
							RECORDING SECRETARY.
							MISS ALICE A. VINING,
								INDIANAPOLIS
						
					
							TREASURER.
							MRS. A. M. NOE,
								INDIANAPOLIS
						
					
							LECTURER.
							MRS. EMMA MOLLOY,
								LA PORTE
						
				
				
				The Christian Temperance Union appeals to all Christian women to help them in their war
					upon the common foe. They need your co-operation in organization, in prayer and in
					contributions. If only a half dozen faithful women can be found who will meet statedly,
					once a week, or even once a month, for prayer and conference, that little company will
					become a power in your neighborhood. They need your help in circulating temperance
					literature. The liquor interest is using hundreds of thousands of dollars in their work.
					Money now spent in antagonizing the foe may save the spending of a hundred times as much
					amid the agonies of caring for a drunken son or husband. A pamphlet that may cost less
					than a dime may, through your prayers and good words, reform some man, or prevent some son
					from becoming a drunkard. Women of Indiana who wish to form a local union, will correspond
					with Mrs. M. M. Finch, Indianapolis.
				For this pamphlet, address the author, Rev. T. A. Goodwin, Indianapolis Ind. Price, by
					mail, single copy, ten cents; twenty copies, $1.00; by express, one hundred and
					twenty-five copies, $5.00; five hundred, $15.00; one thousand, $25.00.
			
		
		
			
			
				A BROTHER'S INQUEST.
				NOTE—As Dr. John R. Goodwin, of Brookville, Indiana, was walking homeward on the
					evening of May 3, 1880, he was fatally shot by his brother Robert. This appeal is made to
					the people of Brookville with view of calling their attention to the well known facts
					bearing upon the shocking tragedy, that indignation and punishment may be meted out to the
					real murderer.
				
					A BROTHER'S INQUEST.
					When the sorrowing man of Uz was bending under the accumulated calamities which had
						fallen upon him, after a touching statement of his griefs, he exclaimed: "Have pity upon
						me, have pity upon me, O ye, my friends! for the hand of God hath touched me." There are
						times in human sufferings when the stricken one wishes to be left alone in his grief
						that he may brood over his sorrows. He desires to see no one, to hear no one, for no
						words or looks can assuage the pangs which rend his heart, and even the attempt to
						alleviate his suffering becomes the most cruel mockery, and in his increased agony, he
						says: "Miserable comforters are ye all." Again there are times when he seeks society,
						that he may find some relief through human sympathy. Then the burden of every word and
						every look is, "Have pity upon me, have pity upon me, O ye my friends! for the hand of
						God hath touched me." There is no higher or holier duty than to weep with those that
						weep. The Son of Man never appeared more godlike than when weeping with the sisters of
						Lazarus; and no act of our lives makes us more like the Son of God than such as are
						intended to comfort the broken heart. In all the missions of the angels there is none in
						which they appear to a better advantage than when we see them in the garden, ministering
						to the Man of Sorrows. More than any other one thing the fellowship of suffering makes
						the whole world kin.
					I need not tell you what is the immediate occasion of the grief which weighs me down,
						as no other grief ever did—as all former griefs combined never did, and which
						induces me to appeal to you, and to say with suffering Job: "Have pity upon me, have
						pity upon me, O ye my friends! for the hand of God hath touched me," Never did words
						convey more meaning than the telegram I received the third day of May: "Robert has shot
						John, badly. Come." In an instant I comprehended it all. I knew that badly meant
						fatally, and I knew too well that the madness of drunkenness upon the part of the
						murderer was the cause. Two hours later came the words, "John is dead." That is the
						whole story, so far as human language can express it. The rest is unwritten, and must
						forever remain unspoken, for no words can convey to another the overwhelming anguish
						which seized me, and which has never abated. No lapse of time, no change of scenes,
						neither business nor pleasure not even the services of the sanctuary, have ever more
						than momentarily suspended that grief. I move among men mechanically, performing every
						duty without relish. It would have been terrible had the murderer been a stranger, a
						highwayman, a midnight assassin, but that murderer was his brother, and mine—nay,
						he was more than that, he was to both of us at once a
						brother and a son; for when our father died, leaving him a promising and good boy, we,
						being much older, at once assumed such a guardianship over him as love prompted. This
						was specially the case with John, who lived nearer him, and who, since the poor besotted
						boy had squandered all his property, came to his relief in food and clothing. Every
						article of clothing that he had on when he committed the murder was furnished him by
						John. It was thus a double calamity: the loss of a brother near my own age, my companion
						in childhood, and my trusted and trusting friend all along the years of our maturer
						manhood. He was to me more than a brother, he was a counselor and friend in many a time
						of need, illustrating in his life that a brother is born for adversity. And then, there
						was the consummation of a life of shame and dissipation, in that other brother, whose
						very vices had made him an object of the most tender solicitude and care, himself the
						murderer. Had he killed any other man; had he in a drunken fray killed a drunken
						companion, or had he, under some real or imaginary provocation, killed any other good
						and useful citizen, this would have been an inexpressible grief. Could human sorrow be
						greater than mine?
					It is under these circumstances that, with this sad heart, I undertake to perform a sad
						duty. By the side of the fresh grave of my murdered brother, and under the grated window
						of the cell of his murderer, my brother also, I propose to make inquisition for blood.
						It may seem indelicate that I do so; it is painful that I must. A most atrocious crime
						has been committed, and it is imperative that somebody do this, and as no other one has
						undertaken it, or is likely to, I offer no apology for attempting the delicate and
						painful task myself of answering the question, "who murdered my brother John?"
					The common theory, the surface indications are that Robert Goodwin killed him. It was
						thus announced in the papers of May 4th, from Maine to California. This was the word
						that passed from mouth to mouth for a few days. Its atrocity was the theme of discussion
						in every social circle, on change, on the streets, in the cars, everywhere, for a few
						hours. Then it gave way to some new sensation, to some question in politics, to some
						project for making money or to some new private grief of a similar character; and the
						world outside of the little family or business circle of which he formed a part, moves
						along with a stolid indifference to our broken hearts mocking our grief by its hum of
						merry laughter and its unremitting devotion to business, as if the affair was every way
						a natural one and as if no other hearts were exposed to a similar calamity, and as if
						nothing could be done or should be done to prevent its frequent recurrence. No one stops
						to hold a serious inquest. The surface facts are accepted as final, and the work of
						death goes on; and other hearts are made to bleed with even worse forms of agony. But
						let us pause by this grave-side, and under this grated window, and at least make one
						honest attempt to ferret out the murderer of this good man, who had not an enemy upon
						earth. Robert Goodwin was not the murderer of his brother John. That thing was
						impossible.  Those of you who knew Robert twenty-five to
						thirty years ago, the real Robert, knew him as one of the most loving and loveable
						youths of your community. He was industrious and dutiful as a boy; quick and ready as a
						student, agreeable and polite as a companion. In the days of his young manhood, no
						circle of young people, such as Brookville was then famous for, was complete without
						him. In the Sunday school and the day school he was a universal favorite. When, after
						his graduation, he became a teacher in the Brookville college; and later, when he was
						admitted to the bar as a young attorney, no young man ever gave better promise of
						usefulness, and even prominence in life. When he forsook all this at the call of his
						country, he soon acquired a reputation for gallantry in the field and efficiency as an
						officer which gave him a rank that was truly enviable. Why, then, has he imbrued his
						hands in his brother's blood? The answer is on everybody's tongue: "It was strong drink
						that did it!" But who is responsible for this? I do not exculpate him. Drunkenness is a
						crime against society which ought of itself to be severely punished at every stage, and
						instead of being pleaded as an abatement for the punishment due to another crime, it
						should intensify that punishment. He ought to have resisted the evil influences which
						surrounded him, but he did not.
					In our following up the chain of evidence which is to lead to a detection of the real
						murderer of John R. Goodwin, there is one important fact to be borne in mind. Robert did
						not learn to drink intoxicants at home. The home lives of these two brothers were as
						identical as it was possible for such a thing to be. They were equally under the
						influence of religion in the family, and of such moral and religious helps as one of the
						most devoted christians that Brookville ever knew could render. The result of this
						training was seen in the life of the elder brother, this murdered man, as you have been
						familiar with it. His life was a model of goodness in every walk. In the church he was
						faithful and exemplary; and in business, irreproachable.
					In our inquest we are compelled to pause and consider one event in the life of this
						young man, which had an important bearing upon the more immediate causes of this
						calamity. The difference between the maturer lives of these brothers, thus starting out
						from under the same home influences, is to be found largely in the fact that the elder
						brother was favored with the counsels and advice of a wise father through that dangerous
						formative period of youth which is so fearfully beset with snares and pitfalls. That
						father lived not only to exert a favorable influence over the boy, but to witness the
						ripening of the early promise, and to be cheered and comforted by the still further
						promise of a good and useful life. But when he was called by death to leave the
						guardianship of Robert to others, the boy was only about seventeen years of age. That he
						was to leave one so dear to him to the possibilities of youth without a father's
						influence, was the only regret that he expressed at dying so young. He had seen so many
						young men, religiously and carefully trained, fall under the temptations of youth, when
						left without the care and  influence of a father, that he
						often would say: "If I could only live to see Robert educated, and his habits formed, I
						could die more willingly." No other words that were not perfect resignation escaped his
						lips during those months of suffering which ended in death. Was there a premonition of
						the awful life that boy was to lead? or was it only the common dread which every
						thoughtful father must feel as he weighs the probabilities of the future of his boy when
						left to battle with his enemies without a father's help?
					He had been industrious and frugal, and he left for his widow and children a fair
						amount of worldly goods. For the protection and care of this, the State had made ample
						provisions. Good and true men were required to leave their own affairs long enough to
						make an inventory of every thing, and fix a value upon it. Every pig and calf and colt
						on the farm—even the chairs and beds of the desolated old homestead were
						appraised, and an inventory of all was filed in the office prepared for such papers, so
						carefully does the State provide for protecting and preserving the material wealth of a
						dead man. But what of the boy? While all this was going on as to the things which perish
						with their using, the machinery of that same State had provided at least a dozen
						able-bodied men in the little town of Brookville, with every needed appliance, to rob
						that widow of her boy, and to prepare him for what he now is, a miserable drunkard and
						fratricide. The officers who had charge of the pigs and colts and old chairs, all
						performed their respective duties faithfully. Not one cent was lost. And equally
						successful were those who took charge of that fatherless boy. He is just what they
						intended he should be, a ruined man; just what the State knew he was liable to become
						when it took the price of his blood as a compensation for the protection it threw around
						the men it employed, with a full understanding of the probable result, for this is no
						new development of the liquor traffic. It is only one case of thousands upon
						thousands.
					These facts throw light upon all that was dark in this dreadful tragedy. It brings us
						face to face with the real murderer of John R. Goodwin, and it is as wicked as it is
						weak and cowardly to shrink from the duty which this discovery forces upon us. No
						hoary-headedness of the murderer, no social or commercial or political connection with
						the incarnate demon which thus preys upon the beauty and pride of our families, must
						shield it one moment from the extreme penalty of the law. It must die; not only as a
						punishment for this and ten thousand bloodier deeds, but as the only security for the
						thousands it is now lying in wait to destroy.
					I have spoken of bloodier deeds. It may seem indelicate; I know that it is painful to
						say in this presence that the shooting down of John R. Goodwin, on your streets, was
						neither the first nor the most terrible murder committed in our family by this universal
						murderer, through the immediate agency of this poor unfortunate brother. There are
						living deaths which it were a mercy to terminate by a pistol shot, which are long
						endured in silence, known only to the sufferer and to God. Only the necessity of
						revealing the real  murderer of my brother John in his true
						character, that I may in some degree enlist your aid in his condign punishment, could
						induce me to uncover the gaping wounds of our sainted mother as year after year she went
						sorrowing to her grave, with the iron piercing her very soul. It was not merely the
						anguish that any mother feels who sees her son leading a life of dissipation, but it was
						that once loving and lovable son transformed by this arch murderer into a monster that
						seemed to take delight in all manner of torments and indignities. Some of you remember
						the sad countenance which that once cheerful and happy woman wore all the later years of
						her life. You might have known the cause had you stopped to consider that this son
						having squandered the patrimony he inherited, and having wasted all the accumulations of
						his earlier and better manhood, and having become a moral and physical wreck, returned
						to Brookville, not merely to enjoy the refuge which even a dissipated son may hope to
						find in a mother's heart and a mother's home, but to embitter every joy of that good
						woman by such words and such deeds as find their inspiration only in rum. The pistol
						shot which so suddenly terminated the life of John was an angel of mercy compared with
						the unceasing torment which that mother suffered for years. Nay more, in those three
						hours of suffering which intervened between the shooting and death there was not a
						moment of such anguish as this affectionate brother had been compelled to suffer day
						after day for years, in seeing this once excellent brother loafing around the streets in
						a state of maudlin drunkenness or raving in the madness of delerium tremens. Is it
						nothing that so tender and affectionate a son as Robert was when his father died should
						be transformed by dissipation into such a monster that his mother would often exclaim:
						"O why could he not have died in battle and received a soldier's burial, rather than
						live to kill me by his conduct?" I can never forget her anguish of spirit the last time
						I visited her before her death. She spoke of the incessant and excrutiating pain of the
						malignant tumor which was eating its way to her vitals, and then added, in tones whose
						echoes yet pain me: "But, Thomas, all this is nothing. Poor Robert! he is killing me by
						inches." It was a mother's love struggling for a supremacy over a mother's anguish.
					The inquests which men make are often superficial and hasty, and unsatisfactory. There
						is usually wanting a sufficiency of facts or an inability to trace a proper connection
						between the facts we have and the deed of blood. Let us in this inquest be honest and
						candid, and let no false delicacy prevent our thorough investigation and application of
						every fact bearing upon the question, Who murdered John R. Goodwin? When God comes to
						make inquisition for blood he will weigh even remote influences in his impartial
						balances and will, with unerring certainty, say to the guilty one, "Thou art the man."
						In the superficial inquest which the public has made over the sad ending of my brother
						the verdict has gone forth, "Killed by his brother Robert." Let us, now that we are
						further removed from the frightful tragedy, honestly traverse this verdict. If it be
						true, then no punishment known among men can be too severe for the murderer,  if it be untrue than the guilty party stalks abroad in our
						land seeking new victims; and every consideration of humanity; our own safety and the
						safety of our children, demand that we suspend every other pursuit until he is detected,
						arrested and executed. If an Indian only once in a decade should steal into your streets
						and shoot down such a man, we would suspend plowing and planting, and buying and
						selling, and voting, until the whole tribe was exterminated. Shall this wholesale
						murderer be alone exempt from the punishment due to his crime? Dare we sit down and
						quietly see him plan to pounce upon our own households, and either from cowardice or
						indifference never move a hand or foot or tongue or pen to prevent his scheme of death?
						Even if your own family is safe, will you see him murder some other family and make no
						attempt to save the intended victim? But your family is not safe. No family in
						Brookville or in the world appeared to be less likely to be thus stricken than the
						family of Samuel Goodwin the day that his neighbors returned from his funeral.
					In our inquest thus far we have found two facts that are indisputable, which must serve
						as the basis of all honest investigation, and with which every less obvious fact must
						quadrate. The first is that Robert Goodwin is a drunkard. That alone accounts for the
						part he took in the deed of death. No man in your community denies that. The second fact
						is that he became a drunkard entirely through the instrumentality of tippling houses. I
						do not suppose that he ever drank a drop of intoxicants in his father's house during the
						life of his father. Samuel Goodwin was among the very first to embrace the temperance
						reformation and to banish intoxicants from the harvest field and the side-board, all of
						which was done before Robert was born. Robert, however, began to drink much earlier than
						has been generally supposed. He was, indeed, until his promotion in the army began, a
						very moderate drinker; yet from the first it grew upon him, as it grows upon every one.
						His was the experience of the whole army of common drunkards. He never intended to
						become a drunkard. He only intended to drink genteelly, and to drink or let it alone.
						His first tippling was at the drug store, that open door to hell through which more
						educated and genteel young men annually pass to the lowest class of doggeries, and
						thence to the lowest depths of misery and shame and crime than through ordinary dram
						shops.
					I can never forget the anguish of his mother when she first discovered a bottle of wine
						in his room; for with all of a mother's hope that her son could not become a drunkard,
						she knew too well the almost certain ending of such a beginning. In vain were all our
						remonstrances and entreaties. He repelled them with indignation. He
						would never become a drunkard! But his history is the common history of drunkenness and
						crime, except, perhaps, that his progress was at first not as rapid as is usual. The
						recollection of a father's example and prayers, the tears and prayers of his mother, the
						influence of his elder brothers and of the Sunday school and of such society as he moved
						in while rum had not yet destroyed that nobleness of nature which he possessed in an
						eminent degree, all tended  to retard his progress, until be
						was removed from all these in the army. Then the descent became rapid, until for years,
						now, he has been a poor vagabond, a common street drunkard, with scarcely a friend left
						but this brother whom he so ruthlessly shot; an uncommon drunkard only in the nobleness
						and culture which would often crop out amidst his lowest surroundings.
					Now, who is responsible for the blood so wantonly shed in your streets? That is the
						question of this hour, and it shall remain the question of every hour until the guilty
						party is discovered and deprived of his power to repeat the deed of blood; and who is
						responsible for that greater crime, the worse than murder of the still living younger
						brother?
					Hard as it was to lay away John's mutilated corpse, there were many things to mitigate
						our grief: there was the memory of his beautiful life, so pure, so unselfish, so noble;
						and there was the legacy of those three hours of dying, so full of words of comfort and
						of christian triumph, which thrilled every man who heard them, and which have passed
						from mouth to mouth, even in the haunts of dissipation, showing how a christian can die;
						and there comes from all this and above all that star of hope, that ray of light which
						pierces the gloom of the beyond, and assures us of a brighter and better life to those
						who die in the Lord. But Robert is worse than murdered. A life that might have been even
						grander than John's, for his early promise was greater than that of any of his brothers,
						has been not merely wasted, but in everything except the service which he rendered in
						the army, it has been a burden and a detriment, a source of constant grief to those who
						loved him, and full of moral pestilence to such a degree that the firing of that fatal
						pistol may be justly ranked among the least of his crimes against society and his
						kindred. And then the beyond! Let us not lift the curtain, if we could!
					To prevent such scenes of blood as were witnessed on your streets, the State has built
						jails and penitentiaries and gallowses, and maintains an expensive system of courts and
						juries and executive officers, and as a consequence such scenes are rare, and would be
						much rarer but for the cause precedent. But to prevent the greater crime, the making of
						drunkards and the fruitful cause of nine-tenths of all the murders which afflict us, it
						does nothing; nay, worse, it not merely permits these worse than murderers to go
						unpunished by shutting its eyes to the crimes, but it specially fosters and protects
						them. For an insignificant sum of money it throws around the entire machinery of the
						business the shield of its courts and juries; and the murderers erect their dens of
						death in our most frequented streets, and we abandon to its machinations the flower of
						the land—our best loved sons and daughters.
					But let us not allow the special atrocity of the deed which has led to this
						investigation to mislead us to words of reproach or special censure of the men who gild
						the saloons and manipulate the glasses. Their guilt is no greater than the guilt of
						those who accept the money and frame the mischief by a law. They are no worse than those
						legions of cowards who witness all  this and then quietly
						fold their hands and permit it without one manly protest, or honest, earnest effort to
						prevent it. When Pilate took water and washed his hands in token of his innocence of the
						blood of that just man, he knew that he was lying. His apology was itself a confession
						of his guilt. It was his duty to prevent the consummation of the conspiracy if it had
						required the mustering of every soldier under his command. But he saw that to do this
						would raise a tumult, and he therefore abandoned the Savior to the mob, with this mock
						ceremony and feeble protestation of innocence. The guilt lay upon his heart where no
						water could efface it, and no words palliate it. The man who tolerates our system of
						making drunkards by his indifference is as guilty of the blood of John R. Goodwin as
						Pilate was of the blood of Christ, and this murder is but one of a thousand of daily
						occurrence. These dens of death exist because we want them to, for we could prevent them
						if we wished to. We see them, and we see the throngs of men that visit them, and see in
						these throngs our own best beloved, yet with a cowardice that would shame Pilate we
						stand off and permit it. We are too busy to attend a temperance meeting, we are too much
						interested in the conversion of the heathen to contribute to the rescue of even our own
						children from this hell upon earth into which they are plunging; we are so intent upon
						making money for our sons or sons-in-law to spend in these gilded saloons that we cannot
						spare one hour even to talk about temperance as something that we ought to be interested
						in. That is well enough for the vulgar. Lawyers who have no clients,
						doctors who have no patients, merchants who have no customers—men who are not
						great men or busy men can look after this threadbare and profitless matter. Alas, how
						many of these great men; too great to identify themselves with any aggressive temperance
						work, too busy to even listen patiently a few minutes to the entreaties of men and women
						whose hearts have been touched by their own sufferings and the sufferings of others,
						have found time to bury a drunken son or brother, or to take home a heart-broken
						daughter who is worse than a widow, and finally have found time to die, and to bequeath
						to the rumseller all the accumulations of his years of toil and selfishness, and to go
						only a little ahead of his victims to whatever hell is, for such a man, leading such a
						life, whether in church or out of church, can have no place in heaven. The society of
						the pure and good and unselfish in the life beyond, would be undying worms, unquenchable
						flames to his selfish, sinful soul. "Inasmuch as ye did it not unto these, ye did it not
						unto me. Depart therefore," are the words of the judge who separates the righteous from
						the wicked. And the deepest and darkest abode of all the damned is for those canting
						hypocrites who, for the sake of political preferment or business interests have sold
						their children to the drunkard maker. With solemn mockery they pray, "Lead us not into
						temptation," yet vote for the men who fasten upon society this legalized curse, and
						otherwise display their indifference. I have said it is worse to make a drunkard than to
						murder a man. The fate of these two brothers illustrates my meaning. No sane man would
							 prefer that of Robert. No father would rather his son
						should be such as Robert is, and where he is, with what awaits him in time and in the
						eternities than to be what John is with the precious legacy of a good name, and with the
						hopes of such an eternity as follows a life of patient continuance in well doing.
						Besides, John was murdered by the liquor traffic. I mean to say he was murdered by that
						public sentiment, which not only tolerates it but licenses and protects it. Robert was
						but the instrument of the State, differing from the pistol which he used only in the
						volition which he exercised at every step of his downward course. We are the murderers
						of John. The sin lies at our doors because we make the laws that foster these murderous
						dens and refuse to make laws to prohibit them. Yet how few brought these facts home to
						themselves on that sorrowful Monday evening, when this good man was dying of the wounds
						he had received at the hands of the laws for which we are responsible! Indignation ran
						high for an hour against the wretched man who was himself worse than dead, with an
						occasional objurgation of the saloons which had been unmistakably the author of this
						bloodshed—of our saloons; not ours by permission only, but by creation and
						protection. And the men who were most emphatic in such language as savored of
						encouraging, if not organizing, mob violence against the poor deluded drunken man, were
						generally those who had been most indifferent to the existence of the saloons which had
						caused all this, and most denunciatory of the woman's crusade, which proposed to break
						up saloons by the least objectionable form of mob violence—by singing and praying
						in them. To them, for the moment, it seemed the right thing to take the life of the man
						who had taken the life of his brother, because of the possible refusal of the State to
						meet out suitable punishment for the murder; but whenever it has been proposed to rid
						the community of the real murderer by violence, these men have been marked by what they
						are pleased to call conservatism, and now, foremost among those who demand that this
						crime against the State must be expiated by the life of him who did the shooting, are
						the identical men who have been foremost in their endorsement of the system of tippling
						houses, which is the real murderer. I do not, in this paper, discuss the question of the
						punishment of this intermediate murderer, but I do say that he is less guilty than the
						law under which he has become what he is; less guilty than the men who made the law,
						either by direct effort or by silent indifference.
					But why need we dwell on this murder? It is only one of a thousand, and less shocking
						in its details than many. My only apology is the hope that by my brother's grave, in the
						community which is at least for a moment awakened to the enormity of the traffic which
						produces such results, I may be more successful in arousing you to duty than I was
						twenty-six years ago, when I held up before you the wickedness of tolerating these dens
						of death in your midst. Some of you remember how I was assaulted at your court-house
						door by a county officer, for no other cause than my uncomprising hostility to this
						demon which has just now killed one brother and worse than killed another. You remember
						how the organ of the liquor interest  defamed me and even
						invaded the sacred precincts of my family in hunt of scandal; and all because I was
						opposed to these murderous institutions.
					True, this grief which breaks my heart is not your grief. You have seen one of the best
						men that ever lived in Brookville shot down in your streets by this unchanged and
						unchangeable monster, and you have in jail, worse than dead, one of the brightest and
						best youths you ever knew, transformed into one of the worst men that ever tormented
						your rum-cursed town—yet this grief is mine, but I am not alone in cursing this
						slayer of men. There is not a family or the remnant of a family that lived in Brookville
						then that has not been invaded by this monster within these twenty-six years. Many of
						the active participants in that hostility to the temperance work of twenty-six years ago
						long since filled drunkard's graves, and many a son and many a daughter have lived to
						curse their parents. It would be a long list to name the young men and the old men who
						have fallen or are now beyond recovery, and of the daughters whose lives have been made
						wretched by drunken husbands. When I call the roll of the victims of this murderer in
						Brookville, and when I find there such names as the Jocelyns, the Nobles, the Tests, the
						Tyners, the McClerys, the McCartys, not to mention names less prominent in the
						religious, commercial and professional circles of your town—in short, when I do
						not find a family of the old Brookville that I knew twenty-five to fifty years ago that
						has not suffered, and then when I remember that no town in Indiana has fared any better,
						I ask if it is not time to be alarmed?
					But let us not uncover the unhealed wounds of the survivors who go sadly to their
						graves, because of the triumph of the wicked. Let me only add that the demon lives and
						is as rapacious and insatiable as ever. He is even more defiant and exacting now than he
						was then, and he demands and will have new victims. The old drunkards who have not died
						will soon die, but new ones are filling their places, and your present Sunday-schools,
						for whose interests this good man labored so faithfully, will turn out some future
						Robert Goodwin. There is not a boy in your school less likely to be a drunkard and
						murderer than he was when his father died.
					There is but one possible preventive, and that is absolute prohibition of the cause of
						these crimes. Does any man suppose that if the prohibitory law of 1855 had remained in
						force, amended and intensified as experience would have suggested, that Robert Goodwin
						would have been in a felon's cell to-day, awaiting a trial for murder in the first
						degree? Would you have followed to the grave of the drunkard so many of the pride of the
						town? Would you see reeling in your streets daily so many who are but little if any less
						drunkards than Robert Goodwin, and who, though they may not have shot a brother, or
						wife, or mother, have, no less than he, crushed the very life out of wife and mother and
						father and brother and sister? Old men, mere wrecks of their former selves—men who
						were, twenty-five years ago, leading physicians, merchants, lawyers, mechanics and
						laboring men, some of whom were members of church, are to-day  recognized as only common drunkards, their business gone, their property
						gone, their manhood gone. Am I mad that I thus expose to public gaze the festering sores
						of so many? With sadness I have laid bare the wounds that the traffic has made in my own
						family. You know that we have not been the only sufferers. Excepting the shooting, ours
						has not been the worst case. Some may not have been as bad, but all have been bad enough
						to arouse a man of stone to resentment. I confess that I am mad. And the wonder is that
						I am not mad enough to lead those who have suffered as I have, to close every saloon;
						with clubs and pistols if need be. When I see my brother Robert loafing around your
						lowest saloons day after day, following some man in who has not quite spent his last
						cent, to beg at his hand, by that strange fraternity of the common degradation of sots,
						only one dram; when I see him begging of the proprietor of one of the lowest
						dens—the son of the best class leader that Brookville ever had, begging a dram of
						the son of one of the members of his class; and when I see well-dressed men, sober men,
						church members, loving fathers of promising boys, and even the low, drunken trash, whose
						fathers my father would have scorned to set with the dogs of his flock, all passing him
						by with loathing, and saying, more in contempt than in pity: "That's 'Bob' Goodwin, a
						brother of the banker. He has two brothers who are preachers. He is a son of the old
						class-leader, the pioneer Methodist, who did more to bear the burdens of early Methodism
						in Brookville than all others, whose hospitalities and labors for thirty years in behalf
						of the church were without a parallel." And when I see all equally indifferent to his
						degradation, and all equally silent as to the cause of it, I confess that I am mad, and
						I most cordially despise the manhood of any man who, seeing all this, even at the
						distance of a mere spectator, does not run to the rescue of that ruined man. But when I
						see men and women, whose sons and husbands and fathers are already reduced to the same
						level, and notice that they say nothing and do nothing, but think it a christian duty to
						submit to all this, and the worse which is sure to follow, with what they are pleased to
						call christian resignation, my anger is poorly characterized by calling it inexpressible
						indignation. Neither have I patience with those young fathers who lead their sweet boys
						of six to ten to the Sunday school, and dandle them upon their knees at home, who never
						look out upon the machinery in their midst which the State has created and most
						carefully protects, for the sole purpose of making drunkards and murderers of those
						sweet boys. The rapacious maw of the monster demands new victims, and you are as liable
						to supply that demand with those boys as Samuel Goodwin was when his boy, this drunkard
						and murderer, was the pride and comfort of his heart. Mad! I wish I was mad enough to
						put the thoughts which stir me into words that would awaken you from the lethargy on
						which this parent of murders thrives. I wish you were all as mad as I am, and then there
						should be a method in our madness which would organize a crusade against this monster
						which should not be a crusade of songs and prayers only, nor yet a crusade of clubs  and pistols. It would be a crusade of ballots and courts and
						jails, and penitentiaries, and if nothing else would do a crusade of gallowses. By just
						so much as Robert's condition is every way worse than John's, by so much is the man who
						puts the bottle to his neighbors lips to make him drunk therewith a man to be dealt with
						by the extreme penalties of the law. Robert was only intermediately the murderer of
						John. The man who sold and gave him the liquor which transformed him from one of the
						most affectionate brothers to the wreck of a man who waylaid and shot his brother, are
						only intermediately the murderers. But who is the real murderer? Let us pursue our
						inquiry until every candid man will single out the guilty party and say in plain
						language, "Thou art the man."
					When the brothers of Joseph found themselves in an Egyptian dungeon, the past rushed
						before them, and in the silence of that darkness the echoes of a boy's entreaties for
						help haunted them. It was the voice of their youthful brother Joseph, as he appealed to
						Simeon and Levi and Reuben to save him from the heartless slave traders' grasp. More
						than twenty years had elapsed since they sat down to their quiet dinner in Shechem, as
						the Ishmaelites bore hence their brother to a fate that they neither knew nor cared for.
						But now, they were themselves in bondage and helpless, and down through the years comes
						that same voice, as plaintive and earnest as when its echoes died away among the
						mountains of Canaan. Now, they were in a condition to hear but in no condition to help,
						and they confess to one another: "We are verily guilty concerning our brother." But in
						what did that guilt consist? They had not stoned their brother, and they had not starved
						him. They had only sold him—they had, for a money consideration, licensed the
						Ishmaelites to make a slave of him, and what else? Why, when he entreated them by their
						love for the father who would mourn over his great loss; by their kinship as brothers,
						they simply resumed their dinner and would not hear. Their guilt was in what they
						refused to do. They just let the slave-traders alone, that was all. And here lies our
						guilt. The men who would not hear the entreaties of this drunken man, after he had lost
						control of himself, and of the ten thousands of similar drunkards, are guilty of his
						disgrace and of his brother's blood. There are Reubens among us also. This elder brother
						at first entered a mild protest, but when he found himself out-voted, he at once
						acquiesced, and, taking his share of the blood-money, he joined in fabricating the lie
						which was to lay the blame of their cruelty upon the innocent lions. Our Reubens
						occasionally protest mildly against the traffic, but because the majority, or an earnest
						and persistent minority, demand it, they quietly pocket their share of the money, and
						when a drunken man kills his brother they piously say, "did we not say do not sin
						against the child?" Out upon such hypocrisy! The man who does not openly and boldly, and
						resolutely and persistently fight this traffic is as guilty of the murder of John R.
						Goodwin as any of the acquiescing class; and the sullen, lazy, indifferent acquiescers
						are as guilty as the active participants, and a great deal more contemptible.
					In such a contest as this, neutrality is treason, and he is a  coward and hypocrite of the first water who only takes spasms of hostility
						under special provocation, such as an atrocious murder or some terrible development of
						cruelty inflicted by the traffic; while there are some who pretend to be Christians,
						whose hearts, if they have hearts, are bleeding at every pore, yet they never lift a
						hand to slay the destroyer; they hardly so much as say with cowardly Reuben, "don't sin
						against the child." They pretend to believe that church work will save the drunkard, and
						they go on with their praying, though under church work for a thousand years the monster
						has rioted in blood. These, too, are among the murderers of John R. Goodwin; and they
						are the murderers of their own children in many cases. Nay, they are worse than
						murderers of them. It had been a mercy to Robert and to some of your children if some
						assassin had plunged a dagger into their hearts in the days of their innocence and
						beauty, and you would have acted like a Christian and an affectionate parent as well, if
						you had stood tamely by and seen the bloody deed with only such a mild remonstrance as
						would have encouraged the murderer to seek another victim in the same family, or any
						other, compared with the fate of these boys and the conduct of their fathers.
					I have thus answered the question I started out with: Who murdered John R. Goodwin? and
						I have at the same time answered another question, though one but seldom asked in this
						connection: Who is responsible for the condition of my brother Robert, so much worse
						than murdered? And herein is one of the bitterest ingredients of the cup I have had to
						drink since the third day of May. Men of culture and piety, who have not meant to add to
						my grief, have tendered their sympathy on the death of my good, noble brother, whose
						death was so tranquil and godlike that no one doubts that our loss was his gain; but
						there lies that other brother in a felon's cell, once as pure and noble as John, now so
						besotted and ruined that not a trace of his former self remains, and men speak of him
						with bated breath, as if ashamed or afraid to memtion his name to me. Is he not my
						brother still? Can I forget what he was because of what he is? Do you wonder that I have
						not relished a morsel of food since that fatal hour, and that I walk the streets, and
						read and write, and preach and pray, with a sadness that grows sadder every day as the
						fate of the living brother stares me in the face. The dead is safe. Beautiful flowers
						already adorn his grave, and the savor of a good name fills the air with a rich perfume.
						No, the death of John is nothing; it is on account of the living yet dead Robert that I
						appeal to you my old neighbors, and my brothers' neighbors, and with a heart wrung with
						anguish I say, "Have pity upon me, have pity upon me, O ye my friends! for the hand of
						God hath touched me." But as you love me, don't break me in pieces with your words. Show
						your pity by helping me to detect and arrest and execute the murderer. You know that I
						would despise you, you would despise yourself, and every honest man would despise you,
						if the body of any man were found in your streets, shot through and through, and a clue
						were discovered to the murderer and you refused to join hands with all honest men for
						the arrest and punishment of the murderer. Your  time and
						your money would be freely given, that the crime might not be repeated, and that you or
						yours might not be the next victim. But yonder lies my poor brother in a felon's cell,
						worse off by far than the brother whose body you buried with so many tokens of grief,
						and his destroyer is plying his work of death as unremittingly as ever, and he already
						has his bloody hands on the throats of the children of some of you, and the work is so
						far progressed that recovery is improbable if not impossible, and he is waiting only for
						your death or for some other favoring opportunity to begin upon new victims—those
						sweet little boys. Will you mock my grief by refusing to help? I shall not dictate
						methods. I am clear as to my own method. Necessarily in such a work, men equally honest
						and earnest may differ as to the best means of accomplishing the end. You had no more
						earnest worker in the temperance cause than this murdered brother, and it needed not a
						drunken brother to enlist his great heart in this cause of humanity, though possibly
						what he suffered from this affliction may have occasionally goaded him to use words not
						always most palatable to the family of drunkard makers. Such was his known devotion to
						the cause of prohibition that when the Prohibitionists, a year ago, placed a State
						ticket in the field a leading position upon it was tendered him. He, however, declined.
						The method did not strike him at the time as the best. He answered that he thought the
						best method was to secure the success of the Republican party, such was his confidence
						in the party which had been in power more than half the time since the repeal of the
						prohibitory law of 1855, and which had done nothing that even savored of temperance
						legislation except the imbecile Baxter law, which accomplished nothing where it was most
						needed. Only a few weeks, however, before his death, in the very last letter I ever
						received from him, he wrote: "It is now too late to organize a success for this year,
						but since the betrayal of the temperance men of Ohio, by the Republican party, after
						their repeated pledges, I am prepared to adopt the resolution of the East Ohio
						Conference, and say that after this year I will make prohibition paramount to all other
						questions, with or without a separate political organization as circumstances may
						dictate."
					In his mistaken confidence in the Republican party, he has had the company of most of
						the earnest prohibitionists of the State, all these twenty-five years, until hope, so
						long deferred, has made the heart sick; until confidence, so often betrayed, has fled;
						and, now, thousands upon thousands of the men who fought the early battles of that party
						because it was the party of the poor and enslaved, still hoping that it would be true to
						humanity, like him, are pledged to make prohibition paramount to every thing else,
						especially after this year, it being thought too late to organize a victory at this
						time. Arrange the matter of method with God and your own conscience. Remember that the
						people are sovereign. You dare not petition and beg. That is the office of cowards and
						slaves. It is yours to command, and the command of an American citizen can be given only
						at the ballot box. Speak out on this subject as authoritatively as you  would if it were your money instead of your children that
						you were seeking to protect.
					If you are satisfied with the method adopted and pursued for the last twenty-five
						years, which has resulted in the best law for protecting the traffic that we ever had,
						then continue to ignore the intesest of temperance in your political action; and
						twenty-five years hence, when one of your sons or brothers, made a drunkard at the
						saloons you have fostered, shall have killed his brother, then advise the people to
						still consult politicians who consult only drunkard makers in their legislation, and
						thus you can perpetuate the system if you like it, for another and another century. Or,
						if you affect to despise the utility of law, except a law to license and protect the
						traffic; if in your extreme faith in God and the church, you scorn so carnal a weapon as
						the ballot on this subject, be consistent and despise it on theft and arson and other
						moral questions.
					How long would you allow a band of brigands to dictate the laws which relate to the
						rights of property, after they had developed a purpose to prey upon that property at
						pleasure? Would you say that this is a crisis in politics, and that you must this once
						vote the party ticket, just as you have said at every election? No, never! You would say
						that any party that does not protect your property from the depredations of thieves
						shall not have your vote. Say as much concerning the protection of the olive branches
						about your tables as you have already said of your orchards and vineyards; or even of
						the trees in your forests or door yards, and your children will be safe. In this sorest
						calamity there is wanting to me one ingredient of grief whose presence, it seems to me,
						would make my cup overflow, and would kill me. With an honest heart I can say that my
						brother is a drunkard through no neglect of mine. For a third of a century I have been
						the unceasing enemy of this murderer of men. The warfare has cost me all my worldly
						goods, and left me in my old age without any inheritance, save the consciousness of a
						life spent in trying to save others. Thirty-one years ago last April, I delivered the
						first prohibitory speech ever delivered in Indiana, or so far as I know, in the West;
						and from that key note I have never been allured by any sickly sentimentality, or plea
						for compromise. I have been assaulted by violent men more than once; I have been the
						song of the drunkard, and the butt of the jeers and jibes and slanders of vile editors
						and not less vile politicians; and now this calamity has fallen upon me to embitter the
						closing years of my life, now far in its evening, only in obedience to that law which
						sends the noisome pestilence which has its origin in the slums of the city, into the
						cleanliest and best ventilated homes, and as a striking refutation of the lie, "it will
						never hurt you if you let it alone," behind which many a man has skulked when conscience
						and humanity urged him to help. It lets no man, woman or child alone. It spares neither
						age nor sex nor condition in its indiscriminate attacks upon our race, and no man who
						has a heart to feel for the sufferings of another, should fail to move upon its works.
						Even self-love, the mere animal  instincts of self
						preservation, bids every thinking man to slay this universal destroyer.
					If it were a mad dog that was creating such havoc, you would kill every dog in
						christendom, if necessary, to stay the ravages. Yet the raving of this poor man, in your
						streets and in his room, under the delirium of drunkenness, have been worse than the
						ravings of any man suffering from hydrophobia, for while the pain was no less, there was
						the sense of moral degradation and ruin, which, even in the sufferer himself,
						intensified and overshadowed every physical agony, not to mention the grief it caused
						his friends. When the yellow fever broke out in Memphis, men, unacclimated, rushed to
						the rescue of the suffering, only to die of yellow fever, until the people of Memphis
						had to beg them to smother their humane impulses and remain away; and the people sent
						contributions to the sufferers from every town and city. And then, that the plague might
						not again break out or that its future ravages might be less, the government spent half
						a million in one year to employ men of science to investigate the cause, and to propose
						some probable preventive. But here is this pestilence visiting every town and city in
						the land, whose victims annually outnumber the victims of yellow fever ten-fold, and
						Congress, though often asked, refuses to appoint a commission, even without pay, to
						investgate it, and men die, and no man lays it to heart. When such a man as John R.
						Goodwin is shot, under peculiarly revolting circumstances, the doors of business houses,
						saloons included, are closed during the hour of his funeral, "out of respect for the
						departed," but they are opened immediately afterwards, and the work of death goes on as
						before.
					"Have pity upon me, have pity upon me, O ye my friends!" have pity upon that stricken
						widow, have pity upon that poor, wretched man in the jail yonder, but more than all,
						have pity on your own children. Save them from such a death as my brother John died, and
						from such a fate as has overtaken my brother Robert, and thus save yourselves from an
						anguish which no words can express. Help me ye old men, who have little to live for but
						to do good; help me ye young men, whose manhood should be devoted to making the world
						better and happier, and not in the accumulation of wealth to be squandered in places of
						dissipation, lest the time shall come when even the All Father shall laugh at your
						calamities; help me ye mothers and wives and sisters, who are in most cases the greatest
						of sufferers; help me ye drinking men, for your present life is miserable, and your only
						security is in removing the temptation by absolute prohibition, and may the God of my
						father help me in continuing my war upon the murderer of my brothers.
				
				
				
					THE TRIAL AND CONVICTION.
					After lying seven months in the gloomy cells of your county jail, this young man, just
						in the prime of life, was taken before a tribunal which you call a court. It consists of
						judges, sheriffs, bailiffs, jurors, and men learned in the law, and is presumed to be an
						institution of civilization, designed to do justice between man and man. One set of men
						had, in secret, made an ex parte examination of the facts of the killing and had, upon
						their oaths, said that Robert had, with malice, killed his brother. Now comes the open
						examination. Twelve "discreet householders" of the county had been selected to listen to
						the law as expounded by the learned judge, and to the facts as they should be developed,
						and to the arguments of able counsel, and express their opinion as to his guilt. They
						listened patiently more than a week and then said, on their oaths, that they believed
						every element of murder in the first degree entered into the transaction and that he
						must expiate his crime against the State by spending the remainder of his life in the
						penitentiary, shut in from the joys and comforts of ordinary life; and then the court
						adjourned as if it had vindicated the rights of society.
					I appeal to you, citizens of Brookville, and ask you if human ingenuity could devise a
						greater mockery of justice? Look at the facts as you know them. Thirty years ago the
						State licensed men to make drunkards, in Brookville. It did it with a perfect knowledge
						that drunkards become capable of any crime. This ruined man is only one of thousands of
						victims. In a fit of drunkenness he committed murder. Now this same State, as if shocked
						at its own work, goes through the forms of what you are pleased to call a trial. It
						empannels a jury to indict and a jury to try. It employs three of your most eminent
						lawyers to prosecute, and to show its entire fairness, it employs three others, equally
						eminent, to defend, the accused being unable to employ counsel, and for more than a week
						the shuttle-cock proceedings went on, and a verdict of guilty was the result. I do not
						criticise the rulings of the court or the verdict of the jury. Perhaps, as the law
						reads, they were right, but there is a higher law than that written by man and executed
						by courts, which will hold the men who sold that man the liquor which made him a
						drunkard and a murderer, as the really guilty party—second in guilt only to the
						preachers and lawyers and others who made the law which protects those infamous
						murderers. Did you not notice with what self-possession and air of innocence some of
						these identical liquor sellers testified? Did you not hear one say that after Robert's
						money was exhausted he took the feather bed which his dying mother had given him? Yet,
						under the forms of law Robert must spend the remnant of his life in the penitentiary,
						while you meet these men on terms of entire equality in social and business life. Nay,
						more; you allow them to dictate for whom you may vote and for what you may vote; you do
						this, too, knowing that they already have the sons of some of the best of you in
						training for a future murderer and for a future penitentiary or gallows. There is a
						worse fact than this known to others if not to you. The iron has already pierced the
						soul of more than one of you, if you have a soul, and yet you vote for the men who make
						the laws just what they are. As for myself, I swear by the Eternal God who made me, to
						take the blood of my murdered brother and the shame of the brother who is worse than
						murdered, and beg the men and women of Indiana to save their own sons and brothers from
						such a fate as has befallen these brothers of mine; and in my heart I shall curse every
						sniveling coward and canting hypocrite who stands tamely by and sees this work of death
						go on without a manly protest accompanied with such manly acts as indicate that the
						lives of men are more sacred than the interests of political parties, or the few paltry
						dollars that you make from your commercial intercourse with these murderers. Robert must
						linger in the penitentiary while the real murderers of John are greeted with your smiles
						and caresses. You are either cowards and are afraid of them, or you are willing and
						contented partners in their crime—I mean such of you as make no earnest effort to
						get rid of them. In either case the curse of a broken-hearted brother shall follow
						you.
				
				
				
					OBITUARY.
					John R. Goodwin was born in Brookville, Indiana, July 15, 1820. He was the second son
						of Samuel Goodwin, one of the earliest settlers of Indiana. He was graduated at Asbury
						University in 1845, and at the Ohio Medical College in 1847. He served three years in
						the army as surgeon, with marked ability, and subsequently, six years as Chief
						Disbursing Clerk of the Department of the Interior at Washington, handling millions of
						money with such fidelity that at any time he could have surrendered his trust and
						accounted for every dollar in twenty-four hours notice. He was for many years cashier of
						the Brookville National Bank, and after the closing of that bank he was president and
						principal owner of Brookville Bank. He was a devoted christian and a faithful worker in
						his church. The cause of temperance found in him an able advocate, and the Sunday school
						cause a faithful and devoted friend. At the time of his death he was a lay delegate to
						the General Conference of the M. E. Church, then in session at Cincinnati, and one of
						the board of trustees of Indiana Asbury University, to whose endowment fund he had
						planned to give $10,000 at the next meeting of the board, which he provided for in the
						verbal will made on his death bed. In every walk in life he was a model man.
					On the afternoon of May 3d, while returning from the bank between two friends, he was
						met on the street by his brother Robert, who, without a word of warning, fired at him.
						The shot proved fatal. He lingered but about three hours. The murderer has never given
						any reason for the deed, and none can be surmised but the fact that for years the liquor
						sellers of Brookville and his drunken associates had railed at his brother because he
						refused to support him in his life of dissipation by paying for the liquor he drank,
						until a morbid hatred had been cultivated. This was intensified by the act of certain
						humane citizens of Brookville, who, in order to try the effects of a few months of
						enforced abstinance, had him sent to the insane asylum on the plea of insanity. He
						conceived the idea that his brother John was the chief agent in this and he plotted the
						deed evidently before his discharge from the hospital, for every movement about the time
						of his discharge and after his return, as explained by the shooting, related to and was
						preparatory for this. When he could no longer be retained in the institution under the
						guise of insanity, he went out to murder the only man who was a true friend to him in
						the home of childhood.
				
			
		
	
