
	 ----CITATION---- 
        English, William E. (William Eastin), 1850-1926.. A history of masonry in Indianapolis. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2012).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAC0992
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		
			
			
				HISTORY OF MASONRYININDIANAPOLIS
				
			

			
			
				Dedication
				TOMY MASONIC BROTHERSOFINDIANAPOLIS

			



			
			
			
				Frontispiece
				
					
						ORLANDO W. BRO\WNBACK, Grand Master.
					
					
						JAMES W. DUNBAR, Deputy Grand Master.
					
					
						WILLIAM E. ENGLISH, Senior Grand Warden.
					
					
						GEORGE E. GRIMES, Junior Grand Warden.
					
					
						MARTIN H. RICE, Grand Treasurer.
					
					
						CALVIN W. RATHER, Grand Secretary.
					
					
						ISAAC P. LEYDEN, Grand Trustee.
					
					
						FRANK E. GAVIN, Grand Trustee.
					
					
						ROGER PARRY, Grand Steward and Tyler.
					
				

				PRESENT ELECTIVE OFFICERS OF THE GRAND LODGE OF FREE AND ACCEPTED
					MASONS OF THE STATE OF INDIANA, For the term ending May 27, 1902.
			


			
			
				
					A HISTORY OF MASONRYIN INDIANAPOLIS
				
				BY
					WILLIAM E. ENGLISH, 32ºSenior Grand Warden
					of the Grand Lodge of Indiana, F. & A. M. Past Worshipful Master of Center Lodge
					No. 23, F. & A. M. Past High Priest of Indianapolis Chapter No. 5, R. A. M.
					Past Illustrious Master of Indianapolis Council No. 2, R. & S. M. 


				
					INDIANAPOLIS
					THE BOWEN-MERRILL COMPANY PUBLISHERS
				
			

			
			
				Verso
				COPYRIGHT 1901WILLIAM E. ENGLISH
			

			
			
				CONTENTS.
				
					Introductory.
					Center Lodge, F. & A. M7
					Marion Lodge, F. & A. M.46
					Capital City Lodge, F. & A. M.60
					Ancient Landmarks Lodge, F. & A. M.68
					Mystic Tie Lodge, F. & A. M.78
					Oriental Lodge, F. & A. M.95
					Pentalpha Lodge, F. & A. M.104
					Logan Lodge, F. & A. M.111
					Veritas Lodge, F. & A. M.119
					Concordia Lodge, F. & A. M.124
					Teutonia Lodge, F. & A. M.126
					Indianapolis Masonic Relief Board128
					Indianapolis Masonic Burial Ground Association131
					Indianapolis Chapter, Royal Arch Masons134
					Keystone Chapter, Royal Arch Masons143
					Indianapolis Council, Royal and Select Masters150
					Raper Commandery, Knights Templar161
					Ancient Accepted Scottish Rite, Valley of Indianapolis195
					Adoniram Grand Lodge of Perfection, A. A. S. R.201


					

					Saraiah Council Princes of Jerusalem, A. A. S. R.220
					Indianapolis Chapter of Rose Croix, A. A. S. R.223
					Indiana Sovereign Consistory, A. A. S. R.226
					Murat Temple, Ancient Order of Nobles of the Mystic Shrine232
					Queen Esther Chapter, Order of Eastern Star239
					Naomi Chapter, Order of Eastern Star246
					Appendix251

				
			


			
			
				INTRODUCTORY


				In his annual address to the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of
					Indiana, May 28th, 1895, Grand Master Gavin used the following language: 
						"I received and read with care a very interesting and excellent monograph on "Early
							Masonry in Indianapolis," by Bro. W. E. English, P. M., of Center Lodge No. 23.
						"The example of thus perpetuating the name and fame of the early fathers of Masonry
							in our land is worthy to be followed both by the Lodges and the Grand Lodges. I most
							earnestly commend it to you, with the suggestion that there have been many men
							prominently connected with the early history of Masonry and of the Grand Lodge of
							Indiana whose Masonic careers and labors should not be forgotten. Some steps ought to
							be taken to keep fresh in the minds of succeeding generations the recollection of
							their great work."
				The Grand Body received this recommendation of its presiding officer with decided favor
					and unanimously adopted a resolution directing "that the Grand Master appoint three
					persons as Historians of the Grand Lodge," and the records show that, "in obedience to
					this order of the Grand Lodge, M. W. Frank E. Gavin, Grand Master, appointed the following
					Historians: P. G. M. Daniel McDonald, of Plymouth, P. G. M. Thomas B. Long, of Terre
					Haute, and P. M. William E. English, of Indianapolis." Although there was great
					uncertainty in the  minds of the appointees as to what the
					Grand Lodge intended the actual scope of the work to be, in the absence of definite
					instructions, they proceeded to act under their appointment, and at the first formal
					meeting held at Masonic Temple in the city of Indianapolis, October 24th, 1895 (as shown
					by their report at the next meeting of the Grand Lodge) "after due consideration the
					committee came to the conclusion that it was the spirit and intent of the Grand Lodge in
					creating the committee that it should embrace in the proposed history all the branches of
					Masonry now organized in the State, and so believing, a division of the proposed work be
					made as follows: History of Ancient Craft Masonry to Daniel McDonald; History of Royal
					Arch Masonry, Order of High Priesthood and Royal and Select Masters, to Thomas B. Long;
					History of Knights Templar and Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite, to William E.
					English."
				In accordance with this apportionment of labor, the committee proceeded with the work
					during the year that followed and reported to the Grand Lodge at the annual meeting of
					1896, that the part of it referring to Ancient Craft Masonry was "well under way" with
					"much yet to be done" and that "much data and statistics" had been gathered as to "the
					other orders of the proposed history," but added that because of "the lack of definite
					instructions as to the wishes of the Grand Lodge as to the extent of the contemplated
					history, they have held the matter in abeyance, waiting definite action at the present
					session." In conclusion it was asked that such steps be 
					promptly taken as would "leave no doubt as to the wishes of the Grand Lodge in regard to
					this important matter." Nothing was done, however, at this session in response to this
					request for definite instructions, and no action was taken upon the report further than
					the making of a small appropriation to defray certain expenses of the committee incurred
					in the prosecution "of their investigations in the various parts of the State." The
					appointees therefore continued their efforts in the direction of gathering "data and
					statistics," etc., for another year, but recognizing the unsatisfactory position in which
					they were placed by the ambiguous instructions and intentions of the Grand Lodge, the
					attention of Grand Master Simeon P. Gillett was called to the situation, who promptly
					relieved the uncertainty by the following declaration in his annual address to the Grand
					Lodge, October 25th, 1897: 
						"The preparing and publishing this history will be more expensive than the Grand
							Lodge at first supposed, and it must be prepared to meet it, if the object is to be
							accomplished. The question has arisen in my mind, what history did this Grand Lodge
							intend should be prepared and published? The history of Freemasonry, as appertaining
							to this Grand Lodge and its pioneer founders, or the history of Symbolic Masonry in
							Indiana and concordant orders? From a careful reading of the recommendations of Grand
							Master Gavin, and the report of the Committee on Ways and Means, to which it was
							referred, I am constrained to think that it was intended that there should be prepared
							a full, careful and elaborate account of the facts and incidents connected with the
							lives and times of the pioneer Masons of Indiana, and the history of the Grand Lodge
							from its organization, but especially of the circumstances and events attending its
							earlier formative period.
						"I am led, therefore, to question the correctness of the opinion  of the Committee that the history proposed was to be inclusive of all the
							branches of Masonry now organized in the State."
				The position of the Grand Master was sustained and approved by the Grand. Lodge, and
					nothing therefore remained for the members of the committee to whom the "Concordant
					Orders," etc., had been assigned but retirement from the work as appointees of the Grand
					Lodge and the abandonment of further research along the lines apportioned to them in the
					original division of labor when the compilation of a history "embracing all the branches
					of Masonry now organized in the State" was contemplated. It was wisely decided, however,
					that Past Grand Master McDonald should, under Grand Lodge auspices, continue the branch of
					the work which had been allotted to him and for which he had collected much valuable
					material, confining his labors strictly to Ancient Craft Masonry "as appertaining to this
					Grand Lodge and its pioneer founders." The result was the production of a most excellent
					work highly satisfactory to the members of the Grand Lodge and in every way creditable to
					the Historian, entitled "History of Freemasonry in Indiana." Judge Thomas B. Long, who was
					better equipped than any man in the State to write the "History of Royal Arch Masonry,
					Order of High Priesthood and Royal and Select Masters," met with an untimely death July
					21, 1900, and was thereby prevented from carrying out the desires of his friends, who
					realized that with the material at his command and the great literary abilities which he
					possessed a work covering these divisions of Masonry  would be
					produced which would prove alike creditable to himself and gratifying to the
					representatives of Capitular and Cryptic Masonry in Indiana.
				Previous to the disbandment of the committee, the author had already collected
					considerable material in the field of research assigned to him and he decided later to
					individually follow out a plan similar to that originally agreed upon by the committee,
					but to confine it to the capital city of Indiana only, and with his monograph on "Early
					Indianapolis Masonry"*as a basis to
					compile an enlarged and comprehensive volume, which should include the history of "all the
					branches of Masonry now organized" in that city, from the first organization in 1822 down
					to the close of the century, embracing not only all the York and Scottish Rite Bodies, but
					all adoptive and kindred organizations. The kindly favor with which the press, the public
					and his Masonic brethren had previously received the monograph referred to encouraged him
					to attempt the more pretentious work. The result is the present volume, and while the
					history of the later organizations naturally does not cover a period as interesting as
					that embraced in the original publication, it is hoped that the student of Masonic history
					may find something in the reference to each of them as herein presented at least worthy of
					consideration from a statistical and historical standpoint.
				*Published by the Indiana
					Historical Society, in Vol. III of its publications, being the first number of that
					volume. December 26th, 1894, Center Lodge, Free and Accepted Masons of Indianapolis,
					also ordered its publication under Lodge auspices.


				
				The author's thanks are due to the Secretaries of the various Masonic organizations of
					Indianapolis for access to records and information kindly furnished, and he is under
					especial obligations to Secretaries Willis D. Engle, Hugh J. Drummond, Tom Oddy, William
					H. Smythe, Edward Moore and John Schley, as well as to Grand Secretary Calvin W. Prather
					and Past Grand Commander Henry C. Adams for very highly appreciated brotherly courtesies
					most graciously extended.

				WILLIAM E. ENGLISH.

				Indianapolis, March, 1902.


			


			
			
				Frontispiece
				
					
						WILLIAM W. WICK.
					
					
						HERVEY BATES, SR.
					
					
						JOHNN C. NEW.
					
					
						JAMES M. RAY.
					
					
						JAMES L. HOGIN.
					
				
				EARLY WORSHIPFUL MASTERS OF CENTER LODGE.
			

			

		
		
			
			
				A History of Masonry in Indianapolis
				


					
					CENTER LODGE, NO. 23, FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS.
					Ancient Craft Masonry was first established in the city of Indianapolis some
						seventy-three years ago when Center Lodge, No. 23, Free and Accepted Masons, was duly
						organized under authority from the Grand Lodge of Indiana, being the first Lodge formed
						in Indianapolis, as well as one of the earliest chartered by the Grand Lodge in the
						State, that body having only been organized in 1818, and Center Lodge, according to its
						number, being the fourteenth organized thereafter, there having been but nine original
						Lodges.
					Many of the Lodges chartered previously to No. 23 have long since ceased to exist, so
						that Center Lodge is now the tenth in point of age in the State, there being but nine
						really older ones still on the Grand Lodge roll (and but four of these whose existence
						has been continuous from the beginning without a break), although owing to the former
						practice of permitting new Lodges to take the numbers of those disbanded, some younger
						Lodges have numbers smaller than Center and much less, chronologically considered, than
						they are entitled to have.
					The then newly settled town of Indianapolis had been  laid
						off but one year before that time, so it will be seen that Center Lodge bears a very
						close relationship to the city's well-being and progress, having grown with her growth
						and advanced as she advanced. On the 27th of March, 1822, by virtue of a dispensation
						from the proper Grand Lodge authority and upon the recommendation of Union Lodge, No. 2,
						of Madison, Center Lodge, No. 23, came into legal Masonic existence with Harvey Gregg as
						Worshipful Master, Milo R. Davis as Senior Warden, John T. Osborne as Junior Warden and
						Samuel Henderson as Secretary.
					The following list of additional members makes up the complete roster of the fourteen
						founders of the Lodge whose honored names appear as applicants for the dispensation
						:
					
						OBED FOOTE,
						URIAH HUBBS,
						JAMES BLAKE,
						J. W. KIMBLE,
						ALLEN MEAD,
						MOSES COOK,
						WM. VANDERGRIFF,
						SAMUEL McGEORGE,
						HENRY WILLIARD,
						ALLEN D. CAULKING
						(or Caulbing).
					
					A little band of fourteen good men and true, which was a small beginning for a Lodge
						that now numbers two hundred and twenty-four members, and which during its existence has
						initiated in the neighborhood of thirteen hundred candidates, but it must be remembered
						that at that time there were but five hundred and sixty-two Masons in the entire State
						of Indiana. But if limited as 
						
							JOHN VAN STAN.
						
						
							CHARLES E. JONES.
						
						
							JOHN J. CURTIS.
						
						
							FRED M. BAUER.
						
						
							HENRY C. SMITHER.
						
						
							RECENT WORSHIPFUL MASTERS OF CENTER LODGE.
						
						
						 to quantity, the quality in this instance was most
						excellent, and the names of the best men in the new settlement appeared upon this
						roll.
					The names of the Master and Wardens, Gregg, Davis and Osborne, are, of course,
						contained in the dispensation, but there is no positive record of the remaining first
						set of officers to be found. However, the author has discovered among the Lodge's early
						archives scant but convincing evidence that Samuel Henderson was the first to serve the
						Lodge in the capacity of Secretary. He was a man of influence and importance in the new
						community, and was the first postmaster and the first mayor Indianapolis ever had.
					The Lodge continued under this first organization until the Grand Lodge meeting of that
						year at Corydon (then capital of the State), when, on October 7th, 1822, the Grand Body
						ordered Center Lodge continued another year under dispensation. At this session the
						Lodge had no member or representative present, which possibly accounts for the failure
						to receive a charter. However, when the Grand Lodge convened at Madison the following
						year Harvey Gregg was present as Worshipful Master, and, on October 7th, 1823, a charter
						was unanimously ordered issued to Center Lodge, with Harvey Gregg Worshipful Master;
						Hervey Bates, Senior Warden, and John T. Osborne, Junior Warden. The returns to the
						Grand Lodge show that the officers for the previous term were: 
						
							HARVEY GREGG, Worshipful Master.
							MILO R. DAVIS, Senior Warden.
							JOHN T. OSBORNE, Junior Warden.
							OBED FOOTE, Treasurer.
							JAMES M. RAY, Secretary.
							SAMUEL McGEORGE, Senior
								Deacon.
							ABRAHAM MCCORD, Junior Deacon.
							WILLIAM NEW, Tyler.
						
					
					This is the first set of officers of which there is a complete record, and most of
						them, it appears, served from the organization of the Lodge until the charter was
						granted. The Lodge then met in stated meeting on the last Saturday night of each month.
						Where the meetings of the first year were held can not be stated positively, but an old
						receipt for rent for the winter of 1823-24, which the author unearthed in his
						researches, shows that the Lodge room was at that time located over the store of Blake
						& Henderson, members of the Lodge, which is understood to have then occupied the
						site of the present New York Store.
					The Grand Lodge returns of this session showed a total of nineteen members, being an
						increase of five since the first organization. This, of course, includes the officers
						above mentioned. Of these Harvey Gregg, the Worshipful Master, and the first to hold
						that position, was an eminent lawyer of the time and a man of marked ability although
						somewhat eccentric in character.
					He was one of the editors and proprietors of the Western Citizen and Emigrants' Guide, the second newspaper
						ever published in Indianapolis and the original of the well-known daily Journal of the
						present. He served the Grand Lodge later, both as Senior Grand Warden and Grand
						Treasurer.
					Milo R. Davis, first Senior Warden, was a well-known citizen also, and is said to have
						been the son of one of the first Territorial judges of Indiana.
					John T. Osborne, first Junior Warden, was one of the earliest of Indianapolis merchants
						and a member of the first Board of County Commissioners of Marion county.
					Obed Foote, the first Treasurer of whom there is any record, and most probably elected
						at the organization of the Lodge, was another prominent lawyer, and was the first
						person—or rather one of three—to be elected justice of the peace in Center
						township, in which Indianapolis is located.
					Of Samuel McGeorge (one of the original fourteen), Abraham McCord and William New, the
						first of whom we have record in the offices of Senior Deacon, Junior Deacon and Tyler,
						little can now be learned, but William New later filled the two most important offices
						in the Lodge—Secretary and Worshipful Master—showing him to have evidently
						been an earnest and zealous member.
					The only change in the roll of officers since the organization, of which there is a
						record, as appears from this list, was in the substitution of the name of James M. Ray
						for that of Samuel Henderson in the office of Secretary. 
						Indianapolis has produced no more respected citizen than James M. Ray, so well known in
						his day to all old residents of Indianapolis. He was the first county clerk of Marion
						county and occupied many public positions of trust and honor, and likewise filled nearly
						all the offices of the Lodge during his long connection with it, being elected
						Worshipful Master for one term in 1826 in addition to serving five years as
						Secretary.
					It should be remembered that down to the year 1851 the term of office in Indiana
						Masonic Lodges was for six months only, the semi-annual elections taking place in June
						and December. The Grand Lodge returns, therefore, only show the last set of officers of
						each year, but after considerable research through old documents, Masonic libraries and
						records, the author has been able to prepare a full list of the Masters and Secretaries
						of Center Lodge, together with the number of their terms and their years of service,
						from the date of its foundation down to the officers who are now serving for the year
						1901. This was a work of some difficulty as the Lodge had never had a complete or
						correct roll of its Past Masters, and the Past Secretaries were previously almost
						entirely unknown. The list will be found appended at the end of this sketch.
					Harvey Gregg served the Lodge as Master for four terms (two years) following the
						organization, when Zenas Kimberly appears to have been elected to that office for one
						term, James M. Ray continuing as Secretary. Zenas Kimberly was a prominent man in State
						politics  and was a well-known member of the Legislature
						from the southern part of the State in early times. The evidence of his service as
						Master is of a meager and somewhat doubtful character, and he does not appear to have
						retained his membership in the Lodge for any great length of time.
					The Grand Lodge meeting of 1824 was held at Madison, October 4th, with James M. Ray
						representing the Lodge as "proxy," say the Grand Lodge proceedings. That year, the third
						of its existence, Center Lodge reported twenty-five Masons on the roll, being an
						increase for the year of one by initiation and five by affiliation. We now find the
						following officers reported:
					
						WILLIAM W. WICK, Worshipful Master.
						SAMUEL HENDERSON, Senior Warden.
						JOSEPH K. LOONEY, Junior Warden.
						JAMES BLAKE, Treasurer.
						JAMES M. RAY, Secretary.
						BETHUEL F. MORRIS, Senior Deacon.
						LIVINGSTON DUNLAP, Junior Deacon.
						ROBERT CULBERTSON, Tyler.
					

					Of these new officers, Judge William W. Wick, the Worshipful Master, was the first
						judge who ever held court in Indianapolis, and one of the most prominent men then to be
						found in Indiana. During his long and honorable career, he successfully filled the
						offices of Clerk of the Indiana House of Representatives, Circuit Judge, Prosecuting
						Attorney, Secretary of State, Brigadier-General of Militia, Postmaster and member of
						Congress.


					

					Senior Warden Henderson and Secretary Ray have already been mentioned, but Joseph K.
						Looney, Junior Warden, was not only a new officer, but a new member, having only been
						admitted to the Lodge by dimit a short time before. Of his antecedents or history, or
						that of Robert Culbertson, the Tyler, the author knows nothing further than that
						Culbertson was returned as a member the year before.
					Col. James Blake, the new Treasurer, was one of the original charter members, and no
						man known to the early history of Indianapolis was ever more actively associated with
						the city's affairs. He, in partnership with others, built the first steam mill, helped
						to organize and teach the first Sunday-school, arranged the first fourth of July
						celebration of the new settlement, and was the President of the first State Board of
						Agriculture. In fact, he was first and foremost in all public events and enterprises,
						and was a most active and public spirited citizen during all the years of his long and
						busy life. The first carriage introduced into the new town was a two-horse barouche
						brought all the way over the Cumberland road from Baltimore by Col. Blake, on his
						wedding tour, with his bride riding with him, in 1831. Later on he had shipped to him
						from the East the first piano ever seen in Indianapolis. This precious freightage came
						by wagon over the Allegheny mountains to Wheeling, thence by steamer to Cincinnati and
						from there to Indianapolis by wagon. Mrs. Blake was an accomplished musician and her
						playing on this rare instrument at that time caused quite a sensation.


					

					The two new Deacons were likewise well-known citizens of early Indianapolis, and their
						names then appeared on the roll for the first time.
					Judge Bethuel F. Morris was long Judge of the Indianapolis Circuit, and was evidently a
						public speaker of ability, as he was frequently chosen as the orator of Masonic and
						other public celebrations. He later, in 1828 and 1830, served two terms as Worshipful
						Master of the Lodge.
					Dr. Livingston Dunlap was one of the first physicians locating in Indianapolis, coming
						there in August, 1821. He was the Secretary of the first Medical Society organized in
						Indianapolis, postmaster under President Polk, and always a devoted member of the Lodge.
						He left behind him a respected and venerated name, and Center Lodge had the honor, until
						his death two years ago, to bear upon its rolls the name of his son, Dr. John M. Dunlap,
						long one of the best known of Indianapolis physicians.
					The new members of the Lodge reported for the year 1824, in addition to those
						mentioned, were Jeremiah Johnson, James B. Hall, the first carpenter to locate in
						Indianapolis, and a member of the first Board of Seminary Trustees (who became
						Worshipful Master in 1827), and William and John Conner, two brothers who were famous in
						the early history of Indiana. The Conner brothers were both made prisoners by the
						Indians in boyhood, being held in captivity for ten years, and after their release they
						always kept up a certain friendly relation with  the
						Indians, which gave them great influence among them.
					The price of their ransom is said to have been four hundred dollars in money, a keg of
						powder and a keg of whiskey, the latter probably being especially influential. The city
						of Connersville takes its name from John Conner, while William Conner in 1802 settled on
						White River, near Noblesville, about sixteen miles from Indianapolis, being the first
						white man to settle in central Indiana. Oliver I. Conner, his grandson, has long been a
						worthy member of Center Lodge.
					Of Jeremiah Johnson, who came into the Lodge during this same term, the author is not
						able to speak positively for the reason that Indianapolis at that time had two
						well-known citizens who bore that name, and while this was unquestionably one or the
						other of them, it is difficult at this late date to certainly state which of the two it
						was. One was a well-known merchant and prominent citizen, who at an early period
						represented Marion county in the State Legislature, and finally settled near Bridgeport,
						while the other was a noted character of the time known as "Old Rough and Ready," who
						was the first man to be married within the precincts of what is now Marion county, his
						marriage to Miss Jane Reagan having taken place here in 1821. It occurred under
						difficulties that the younger Lodge members would hardly like to face in these
						degenerate days, as he was obliged to walk barefoot sixty miles through the unbroken
						wilderness infested by savages, to Connersville, the then county seat, in order to  secure the necessary license. But the sturdy young
						frontiersman did not hesitate to make the long, lonely and dangerous tramp of one
						hundred and, twenty miles for the girl of his choice whom he expressively declared to be
						"the purtiest critter his two eyes ever seed." After his return he was obliged to wait
						six weeks for a minister to come along to perform the ceremony, but he finally succeeded
						in his marital efforts, as he certainly deserved to do. He was noted for his
						eccentricities, his lack of education, his open hospitality and his rugged honesty.
					The Grand Lodge meeting of 1825 was held at Salem, October 3d, William H. Lilly being
						present as the representative of Center Lodge. The officers reported for that year
						were:
					
						HERVEY BATES, Worshipful Master.
						JAMES M. RAY, Senior Warden.
						CALVIN FLETCHER, Junior Warden.
						LIVINGSTON DUNLAP, Secretary.
						BETHUEL F. MORRIS, Treasurer.
						JAMES B. HALL, Senior Deacon.
						ROBERT CULBERTSON, Junior Deacon.
						FLEMING T. LUSE, Tyler.
					
					Of these, Hervey Bates, the new Master, was not only then, but during the course of a
						long and creditable life, one of the most respected residents of Indianapolis. He was
						the founder and until his death the owner of the well-known "Bates House," and was the
						first person that ever filled the office of Sheriff of Marion county, and it is rather
						remarkable that the first Judge, the first Prosecutor,  the
						First Clerk, the first Sheriff, the first County Commissioner, the first member of
						Legislature, the first Postmaster, the first Mayor and the first Justice of the Peace
						ever known in the city and county were all at some time officers of Center Lodge.
					Calvin Fletcher, the new Junior Warden, was likewise one of the most eminent of
						Indianapolis citizens, and left behind him a large number of descendants, who have
						worthily sustained the family name. He was the first Prosecuting Attorney of the
						Indianapolis district and was a State Senator as early as 1824.
					The Lodge now reported twenty-eight members, the new members by affiliation being
						William H. Lilly, then Auditor of State and Grand Lodge Treasurer, Calvin Fletcher,
						Fleming T. Luse, Reuben Adams and George W. Johnson. The initiates were Isaac N.
						Weagley, of whom little is now known; Dr. Samuel G. Mitchell, who was the first
						physician to locate in Indianapolis, and the President of the first Indianapolis Medical
						Society, and Col. James Paxton, who, in 1822, together with John E. Baker, another
						member of the Lodge, built the first courthouse for Marion county, under a contract
						allowing fourteen thousand dollars therefor. Col. Paxton resided on Circle street, about
						where the Plaza building now stands, and was long a leading citizen. He was the first
						Township Assessor, the first Marion county Representative in the Legislature and Colonel
						of the first Regiment of Indiana Militia organized at Indianapolis.
					Center Lodge's first Master, Harvey Gregg, appeared 
						before this Grand Lodge with a petition asking authority to establish a Lodge at
						Acapulco, Mexico, stating that he was about to permanently locate there. The application
						was denied as "not expedient," and "Brother Gregg" did not go to Acapulco, probably
						wisely concluding that a city without a Masonic Lodge would not be worth living in at
						best. He lived, died and was buried in Indianapolis, and, on April 3d, 1844, the members
						of Center Lodge, learning that a street was about to be cut through the part of "the
						town" where he was originally interred, contributed "25 cents each" to pay the expenses
						of removing his remains to a more suitable resting place.
					On St. John's Day, the 24th of June, 1825, the Lodge held a grand celebration, at which
						Judge Bethuel F. Morris delivered an oration, as did also Rev. John Strange. The
						following is the "Order of the day," for the exercises, as copied from an old document,
						yellow with age, "laid up among the records in the archives of the Lodge:" "ORDER OF THE DAY FOR THE 24TH OF JUNE, 1825. Lodge opened
								at 9 o'clock A. M., at Lodge room. Election.
							Procession formed—march down Market street to the Circle; thence to
								Washington to the Court House precisely at 11 o'clock.
							After services are closed procession to be formed and march in front of Court House
								up to Washington street opposite Maj. Carter's; thence west along Washington St. to
								the Washington Hall; thence to dinner at 1 o'clock.
							After dinner procession formed, march to centre of Meridian St.; thence counter
								march up Washington St. opposite the door of the Court House; thence to the Court
								House and up to the Lodge room."
					The records show that "Brothers Vigus and Henderson"  were
						to furnish the dinner referred to, and that the terms were to be "Dinner and Domestic
						drink, $1, and if Foreign liquors be furnished, $1.25." It is strongly suspected that
						"Domestic drink" meant whiskey in those early days, and that many of those in
						attendance, in accordance with the custom of the time, partook of it.
					Past Grand Master Marston G. Clark, a prominent visiting Mason, was the Marshal of the
						day, with William Marshall as assistant.
					October 2d, 1826, the Grand Lodge convened at Salem—Indianapolis still being too
						insignificant for a Grand Lodge meeting—with Harvey Gregg once more on hand as
						"Representative." The returns for the year show thirty-three members, with four
						initiations during the year and the following board of officers, all of whom have been
						previously referred to:
					
							WILLIAM NEW, Worshipful Master.
							JAMES B. HALL, Senior Warden.
							ROBERT CULBERTSON, Junior Warden.
							JAMES M. RAY, Secretary.
							JAMES PAXTON, Treasurer.
						
					October 1st, 1827, found the Grand Lodge again at Salem, Center Lodge, this time, being
						represented by Charles I. Hand, recorded on the minutes as "Worshipful Master thereof,"
						with Austin W. Morris reported as Secretary, the Master for the six months previous
						having been James B. Hall. Both the Master and the Secretary reported for this term were
						new men, and Charles I. Hand, the Master, will be referred to later on. Few men  ever connected with Center Lodge were so actively identified
						with its affairs as Austin W. Morris, who, for seven terms, served it as Secretary, as
						well as in various other positions and later became Junior Grand Warden, Deputy Grand
						Master, Grand Treasurer and Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge, continuing in the latter
						office for seventeen years. He was a prominent man in State politics, and for some time
						held the office of Deputy Auditor of State as well as other places of public trust.
					November 25th, 1828, the Grand Lodge, for the first time, convened in Indianapolis,
						where the sessions, since that time, have been usually held. Benjamin I. Blythe, of
						Center, was present "by virtue of being Master," says the record, with Austin W. Morris
						still the Secretary of the Lodge. The name of Judge Bethuel F. Morris now appears among
						the Past Masters, he having served during the first six months' term of that year. The
						Grand Lodge at this session appropriately chose him as Grand Orator.
					November 3oth, 1829, we find the Grand Lodge, for the second time, at Indianapolis,
						with Benjamin I. Blythe again present as Master, but Abram W. Harrison is now recorded
						as Secretary. Worshipful Master Blythe afterwards became Grand Treasurer of the Grand
						Lodge and was a prominent man in his day, being an early member of the Legislature and
						the Secretary of the board that first laid Indianapolis off into town lots in 1821.
						Later he was appointed State agent for the sale of these lots. Abram W. Harrison was a
						well-known merchant of  Indianapolis, who also served a
						term as Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge. At this session three members of Center
						Lodge were selected as Grand Lodge officers, Governor Noah Noble, Grand Marshal; Judge
						William W. Wick, Grand Orator, and Harvey Gregg, Grand Treasurer. On the last day of the
						meeting, according to the minutes, "The Brethren of the Grand Lodge and of Center Lodge
						formed a Grand procession and proceeded in due order and harmony to the Methodist
						Episcopal Church, where an appropriate address was delivered by Brother H. A. Hunter,
						Grand Chaplain."
					On October 4th, 1830, the Grand Lodge assembled at Indianapolis, with Judge Bethuel F.
						Morris present as Center's "Representative." But six Lodges were represented at this
						meeting, and the attendance being so small an adjournment was taken until December 1st,
						without attempting to transact any business. By hard drumming Representatives from
						thirteen Lodges were secured for the adjourned meeting December 1st, but the Order was
						then in such a disorganized condition throughout the State that out of thirty-eight
						Lodges previously created, but eighteen were entitled to representation or had made
						proper returns, and but two Grand Lodge officers answered the opening roll call, Grand
						Master Abel C. Pepper and Grand Secretary Lanier both being among the absent. Charles I.
						Hand, of Center Lodge, as Junior Grand Warden, opened the session as acting Grand
						Master, and Austin W. Morris, of Center, was elected as Grand Secretary at this meeting
						to succeed J. F. D. Lanier, who later became the famous
						banker of New York. On account of the limited attendance the annual procession was
						abandoned and in its place it was decided (on motion of Judge Wick, of Center) to have a
						dinner together at the "Tavern" of "Brother Basil Brown, of this town."
					The dark days for Masonry were now upon the Fraternity, not only in Indiana, but
						throughout the nation. The so-called "Morgan Disappearance" had aroused a spirit of
						persecution which spread like wild-fire over the land. At many places members of the
						Craft were socially ostracized, Masonic ministers were forbidden to occupy their church
						pulpits and mobs broke into Lodge rooms, destroyed Lodge property and assaulted the
						assembled members. So strong was this movement at the time that the anti-Masonic
						political party was formed, which polled a large vote in some States and carried Vermont
						in the presidential election of 1832. In Indiana it placed a ticket in the field during
						this campaign headed by ex-Supreme Judge James Scott, of Clark county, for the office of
						Governor.
					In the great State of New York, where five hundred and two Lodges had existed, but
						seventy-two remained, four hundred and thirty having disbanded as a result of this wave
						of fanaticism. In Vermont, at one period, not a single Lodge continued to work, and in
						the State of Maine the Grand Lodge assembled, with no Lodge representatives present and
						but a few of the Grand officers, and it will be a surprise to many of this generation to
							 learn that even in the Grand Lodge of Indiana a movement
						was at one time suggested looking to a surrender of the charter, as shown by the
						proceedings of December 9th, 1834, when Caleb B. Smith, Grand Master in 1837 (and
						Secretary of the Interior in President Lincoln's Cabinet), Grand Master-elect Daniel
						Kelso, Grand Treasurer John Walker, and Worshipful Master Shepherd Whitman, of New
						Albany Lodge, were "appointed a committee with instructions to inquire into the
						expediency of this Grand Lodge surrendering its Charter, and if such surrender should be
						deemed advisable to report such resolutions as may dispose of the property of the Grand
						Lodge and that of the subordinate Lodges as may seem just and expedient."
					After due deliberation this committee, on the following day, through its chairman,
						Caleb B. Smith, "made a report which was read and concurred in," which is not given in
						full in the published proceedings. That it was strongly against the idea is
						self-evident, as the Grand Lodge of Indiana, notwithstanding its struggles and trials,
						held together and weathered the storm, but that it was even for a moment proposed shows
						how generally prevalent were the baleful influences of that period.
					It is hard in this day to comprehend the prejudiced state of feeling that then existed
						towards a fraternity that has borne upon its rolls the names of eight honored presidents
						of the United States: Washington, Jackson, Polk, Buchanan, Johnson, Garfield, McKinley
						and Roosevelt. Washington was Master of his Lodge at Alexandria,  Virginia, Jackson was Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Tennessee, and
						Buchanan was Deputy Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania.
					Masons in many other parts of the country than those previously mentioned either
						abandoned their meetings for the time being, or met in secret at rare intervals in
						private houses and out of the way places. Many weak-kneed Brothers entirely abandoned
						the organization in the face of this crusade of calumny and persecution, but
						"Free-masonry notwithstanding still survived," for there were enough of the tried,
						trusted and true, in whose "faithful breasts," the "mysteries of Masonry were safely
						lodged," to still maintain the good work and "preserve the reputation of the Fraternity
						unsullied," for "no motive could make them swerve from their duties, violate their vows,
						or betray their trusts." Center Lodge, like the rest, experienced the evil effects of
						this tide of anti-Masonry that made itself felt everywhere, and for the two or three
						years following, those of her devoted few who remained loyal had a trying experience of
						it. The Masonic light flickered feebly about her altars, the meetings languished, and
						finally, for a time, had to be abandoned, and it was left to but a mere handful of
						faithful Brothers to keep the spirit of Masonry alive in Indianapolis.
					In 1831 the Grand Lodge met at Vincennes, instead of Indianapolis, and out of the
						thirty-eight Lodges that had been previously chartered there were, all told, but seven
						of the entire number represented at this meeting. No accredited Representative of Center
						Lodge appears to  have been present, although Austin W.
						Morris, of Center, was again elected Grand Secretary. Notwithstanding they were now
						reduced to but seven represented Lodges, the little band of Grand Lodge members bravely
						faced the situation, and declared through the report adopted from the Foreign
						Correspondence Committee that "notwithstanding the unjustifiable opposition set up
						against it," in various parts of the country, "if Masons live up to the principles of
						the Order they have nothing to fear."
					In 1832 the Grand Lodge, still with but seven Lodges represented, again convened away
						from Indianapolis, this session being held at Salem, October 1st, with Center's
						representative among the absent. The Lodge at Indianapolis was by this time in a most
						feeble condition, and having failed to pay its annual indebtedness to the Grand Lodge,
						the Grand Secretary, Austin W. Morris, who was a member of the Lodge, was directed to
						take control of its property and affairs for the time being, "to remain in his
						possession" until the organization anew of the Indianapolis Lodge, when "the said
						property" was to be returned to the new Lodge organization, upon the payment "in full of
						all demands against Center Lodge" previously existing, the Grand Lodge evidently
						intending that the Brethren of Indianapolis should be given every encouragement to
						continued Lodge existence and renewed Masonic life.
					October 7th, 1833, the Grand Lodge once more returned to Indianapolis for its annual
						meeting, with but five Lodges now represented, when in view of the limited  attendance, a recess was taken until December 23d, when it
						again convened at the same place. No one appears on the minutes as the legally recorded
						Representative of Center Lodge, but Benjamin I. Blythe, Austin W. Morris, Charles I.
						Hand and Thomas M. Smith, of the Lodge, were present and took an active part in the
						proceedings, and at the close were elected to important offices, showing that Center's
						members still maintained their good standing with their Grand Lodge Brethren.
					That some sort of weak attempt at organization was all along kept up by the faithful
						few of Center Lodge is evident, as the author discovered among some old Lodge papers
						several receipts, given to "David Williams, Treasurer," for money paid out on small
						accounts in the usual way during the year 1834; and in December of that year, Austin W.
						Morris, Charles I. Hand and a few others, who had stood courageously together through it
						all, proceeded under the encouraging order of the Grand Lodge, made December 11th, at
						the annual meeting at Indianapolis, to call the old members of Center together,
						preparatory to placing the Lodge once more on a solid, enduring foundation, and on
						January 24th, 1835, the Lodge was regularly convened for the purpose of a new beginning,
						and a complete reorganization under authority of the Grand Lodge, with the following
						officers:

					
						CHARLES I. HAND, Worshipful Master.
						FLEMING T. LUSE, Senior Warden.
						GEORGE LOCKERBIE, Junior Warden.
						JOHN FOSTER, Treasurer.


						

						AUSTIN W. MORRIS, Secretary.
						JAMES L. HOGIN, Senior Deacon.
						TOWNSEND TRUSLOW, Junior Deacon.
						SAMUEL S. ROOKER, Tyler.
					
					In the light of Center Lodge's past history, this was a splendid set of officers,
						although, strange to say, the Lodge, on August 13th of the same year, held another
						election and selected Austin W. Morris as Worshipful Master and a full list of new
						officers all the way through, who were, according to the minutes, "to act in the absence
						of those designated by the Grand Lodge." Why this election was held is beyond present
						comprehension, but it was clearly an illegal and unauthorized proceeding, and the
						records show that this was later realized, as these officials were never installed and
						never served in any way whatever. Of the regular officers originally selected, Charles
						I. Hand had previously ably served the Lodge as Master, and altogether filled that
						position five times, besides serving the Grand Lodge as Junior Grand Warden and Grand
						Tyler. Senior Warden Fleming T. Luse was the first Market Master, or "Clerk of Markets"
						of Indianapolis, and George Lockerbie was a well-known citizen and Mason, who was the
						second Assessor and the fifth Mayor, or "President of Council," under the town
						government. He left behind him, as a monument, Lockerbie street, wherein resides our
						beloved Hoosier poet, James Whitcomb Riley, who in sweet song gave it lasting fame when
						he wrote: 
						
							
								"O, my Lockerbie street! You are fair to be seen—
								Be it noon of the day, or the rare and serene
								Afternoon of the night—you are one to my heart,
								And I love you above all the phrases of art,
								For no language could frame, and no lips could repeat
								My rhyme-haunted raptures of Lockerbie street."
							
					Treasurer John Foster later served the Lodge for six terms as Master and was seven
						times elected Grand Treasurer of the Grand Lodge. Samuel W. Rooker, long the Grand Tyler
						of the Grand Lodge, was the first President of the City Council, and an old and
						respected resident, while Austin W. Morris needs no renewed mention. Townsend Truslow
						filled the Master's chair in 1837 and became Grand Chaplain of the Grand Lodge in 1838,
						while James L. Hogin * was five
						times elected Master of the Lodge, afterwards attaining the high honor of being chosen
						Grand Master of Indiana, and later, upon his removal to that State, becoming Grand
						Master of Iowa. With such men at the helm there could be no question of a successful
						revival of interest and activity in old Center Lodge, whose affairs had been so sadly
						neglected * There has been
							much confusion in Masonic publications heretofore as to the spelling of the name of
							Past Grand Master Hogin. Grand Secretary Smythe spelled it "Hogan" in the Grand Lodge
							proceedings of 1896, and Past Grand Master McDonald, in his interesting "History of
							Freemasonry in Indiana," generally wrote it in the same way. However, in one instance,
							on page 346, he said: "James L. Hogin, of Indianapolis, was elected Grand Master
							December 14th, 1836, and served until December 13th, 1837." The Grand Lodge records of
							1836-7, during his service as Grand Master, invariably gave the name as "Hogin," and
							it likewise always so appeared in the records of Center Lodge during his five terms as
							Worshipful Master, and the author is strong in the opinion that Hogin is the proper
							spelling of the name.
						 and mismanaged for the two or three years preceding. It
						was thought advisable therefore to take a fresh start in life, under new auspices and
						surroundings, and instead of attempting to continue under a revival of the old charter,
						to ask the Grand Lodge to grant an entirely new one, but under the old number. This
						application was made at the Grand Lodge Meeting, held at the "town of Indianapolis," in
						December, 1835, and on the 17th of that month the Lodge property was returned, and
						"Center Lodge having once paid this Grand Lodge," a new charter was ordered issued "free
						of expenses" (being the one under which the Lodge is still operating), with James L.
						Hogin as Worshipful Master, John Foster Senior Warden, and John Williams Junior
						Warden.
					This was the turning point in the Lodge's history, and it was soon on the high road to
						renewed prosperity and a healthy growth and advancement, and the Grand Visitor for the
						Jurisdiction reported to the Grand Lodge at this Session that Center Lodge "has resumed
						its labors and appears to be in a most prosperous situation."
					The revival of Masonic interest, evidenced at Indianapolis, was general throughout the
						State, the hostility begotten of passion, prejudice and ignorance was fast clearing
						away, and the Grand Lodge, with evident satisfaction, adopted the report made at this
						meeting by its Committee on Foreign Correspondence, expressive of congratulation to the
						Fraternity that "Masonry, the oldest and most elevated of moral institutions, has
						survived the wreck of empires and kingdoms, and ever will, so  long as one spark of moral light and fraternal feeling remains in the human
						heart," and, "Although the ruthless tongue of slander has attempted to fix an indelible
						stain upon her very name, yet she wears innocence for her robes and integrity for her
						ornaments."
					Before closing this important meeting, the Grand Lodge elected four members of Center
						Lodge to prominent offices, and adopted resolutions of thanks "to Center Lodge for the
						use of the hall and jewels, and for the Brotherly and respectful attention of its
						members individually."
					The Masters of Center following Truslow and Foster, who succeeded Hogin, were Philip W.
						Seibert, Charles Fisher, John Cook, Ephraim Colestock, Thomas Donnellan, Cunningham S.
						Ramsey and James Greer, which brings the list down to 1851, when the law was changed so
						as to make the official term one year instead of six months, as heretofore. Of
						Cunningham S. Ramsey *
						
							* After much effort the author was able in
							the original publication of this sketch to give the full names of all the Worshipful
							Masters of Center Lodge since its formation, except that of Cunningham S. Ramsey.
							After exhaustive search in every direction where there was reason to hope to find it,
							he was compelled to go to press without this given name, but when this volume was
							decided upon the effort to discover it was renewed, and finally, four years later, it
							was unearthed in the early records of Indianapolis Chapter.In the attempt to make
							this publication valuable to his Masonic brethren as a work of reference, the author
							has especially endeavored that the several lists of Past Officers of the various
							Masonic bodies given herein should be accurate and complete as to names as well as
							dates. This has required an amount of labor and research as to given names in the
							earlier organizations that can not be comprehended or appreciated by those who have
							not undertaken similar tasks. Men so frequently use initials only in their signatures,
							as a matter of time saving, convenience, or because of dislike of their given names,
							that the full names of those of whom knowledge has otherwise largely been lost in the
							lapse of time have been most difficult to secure. All who have had experience in work
							of this character realize how trying it is to attempt to trace men with common family
							names through old records and documents by means of initials only, and the confusion
							with others bearing the same surname that continually arises. The Christian name in
							this or any similar case might not at first thought be deemed of great importance, and
							the expenditure of labor necessary to the discovery hardly commensurate with the
							result, yet, as in this case, "C. S. Ramsey" would be passed over by most readers
							without thought or remembrance, while "Cunningham S. Ramsey" would attract the
							attention, and assuredly would recall him to the mind of any one who had ever
							previously known or heard of him.
						 Almost nothing can now be learned further than that he is
						said to have been a druggist of the time, who resided in the city only a few years. John
						Cook was filling the office of State Librarian at the period of his election, and
						Seibert, Colestock and Greer were all old and well-known citizens, the latter at one
						time filling the office of City Treasurer. Thomas Donnellan, who was the Assessor of
						Indianapolis during the years 1843-44-45, was a well-known cabinet-maker who served the
						Lodge more terms as Master (although not more years) than any person who ever occupied
						the East, having been eight times elected to that exalted position. Dr. John M. Dunlap,
						who joined the Lodge in 1863, and who was one of the best posted of early Indianapolis
						residents, informed the author that while he was too young to have an opportunity to
						know anything of Donnellan's qualifications as a presiding officer, he did recall that
						which impressed  his youthful mind much more forcibly, that
						he was the best "fiddler" anywhere in the neighborhood.
					Of Charles Fisher it is necessary to speak more at length, for no man ever belonged to
						Center Lodge who held a higher place in Masonic councils or in the esteem of his Lodge
						associates. For over forty-eight years he was an honored member of the Lodge, having
						joined it in 1836. The first election thereafter he became Senior Deacon and later
						served as Junior Warden, Senior Warden and Treasurer, and was elected Master for one
						term in 1842. He was also honored by the Grand Lodge with the offices of Grand Secretary
						and Grand Treasurer, filling the latter position for thirty-six consecutive years. His
						service as Secretary to the Various York Rite Bodies of Indianapolis was most
						noteworthy, for, besides filling that office in Center Lodge and the Grand Lodge, he
						served continuously as Secretary of Indianapolis Chapter for thirty-one years, of
						Indianapolis Council for twenty-seven and a half years, and of Raper Commandery for
						twenty-three years. But it was as Secretary of Center Lodge that he was most closely
						identified with the history of Indianapolis Masonry. He was first elected to that office
						December 26th, 1839, and, although his whole service was not continuous, he served the
						Lodge in that capacity twenty-three consecutive years, and altogether for thirty-five
						years and seven months, being elected to the position just an even fifty times. Such a
						remarkable example of service and fidelity has probably never been equaled in the
						history of  Masonry, and he did not give up the performance
						of these duties until, aged and enfeebled, he was stricken with ill health and
						blindness, which prevented his further attention to the laborious requirements of the
						office of Secretary. He died August 6th, 1884, full of years and full of honors, notable
						among Masons for his "virtuous conduct, his unfeigned piety to his God, his inflexible
						fidelity to his trust."
					In looking over the old Lodge records of this period the author came across an item of
						personal interest, as well, possibly, of interest to some of the older members, in an
						entry on the minutes by Secretary Fisher to the effect that at a special meeting, held
						December 31st, 1846, "Brother E. G. English," of Scott Lodge, No. 12, was present and
						testified as a witness for the defense, in a case before Center Lodge, in which a
						well-known officer thereof was on trial as the result of some business differences with
						a member of another Indiana Lodge. This was the Hon. Elisha G. English, the grandfather
						of the author, who for over forty-eight years before his death was a Mason in good
						standing, and at the time mentioned was in Indianapolis as a member of the Indiana
						Legislature from the county of Scott. English Lodge, No. 622, located at Lexington,
						Scott county, Indiana, is named in his honor.
					The Grand Lodge having sensibly changed the terms of officers from six months to one
						year, Center Lodge, at the first election thereafter, June 4th, 1851, elected Andrew M.
						Hunt as the first Worshipful Master under the new  law, he
						already having served the Lodge three terms under the old regulations. Andrew M. Hunt
						was elected seven times to the office of Master, and although this was once less than
						Thomas Donnellan, he had the honor of serving the Lodge more years in that capacity than
						any one else who ever occupied the Oriental Chair, his full term of service under the
						old and the new law being five and a half years.
					During his Mastership Center Lodge had the honor of a visit, February 28th, 1852, from
						one of the most famous among men and Masons that the world has ever known, Louis
						Kossuth, the great Hungarian patriot, who, accompanied by Gregory Bethlen, Paul Hajnick
						and Peter Nagy, all Masons, of his party, on that evening witnessed the conferring of
						the Master Mason's Degree on Rev. Abraham H. Myers. One week later, on the evening of
						March 1st, Dr. Louis Szpaczch, the friend, physician and compatriot of Kossuth, having
						duly set forth in writing that he "entertained a favorable opinion of the Ancient and
						Honorable Fraternity," was elected to membership and given all three degrees by Center
						Lodge, being granted a dimit the same evening, in order that he might connect himself
						with some European Lodge on his return. Andrew M. Hunt was followed as Master by James
						M. Tomlinson, since dimitted, who in time was succeeded by Hon. John C. New, who was
						"raised to the sublime degree of a Master Mason" December 6th, 1852, serving thereafter
						as Senior Deacon, Senior Warden, and Worshipful Master. Next came Aaron D. Ohr, followed
						by  William T. Clark, Winston P. Noble, Benjamin C. Darrow
						and Joseph Solomon. The latter became a member of the Lodge December I6th, 186o, having
						then begun an active connection with it which he has retained now over forty years,
						during which time he has filled various positions up to the Master's chair, in which he
						served four and a half years, having been five times elected to that office. The odd
						half-year in this case is explained by the fact that the Grand Lodge in 1869 again
						changed the law, so that the Lodge year began in December instead of in June, as before,
						thereby correspondingly reducing the term of the officials then in office. The Lodge,
						however, re-elected them all at the December meeting. As a full list of them is given
						elsewhere, it will not be attempted here to individually refer to all of the Masters of
						Center Lodge in the later periods, but they were all men worthy of that high office.
						Among them were such representative Masons as Past Grand Master Nicholas R. Ruckle,
						Austin H. Brown, Calvin W. Bush, John J. Curtis, Charles C. Gilmore, Henry C. Smither,
						Frank Wilson, John Van Stan, etc. Of these the two latter are among the oldest members
						of the Lodge still in active connection with it, Frank Wilson having affiliated March
						3d, 1873, and John Van Stan having been initiated December 7th, 1868.
					The history of Indianapolis Masonry, from the earliest days, must necessarily largely
						be the history of Center Lodge, also, and this attempt at historical effort in that
						direction has now pretty thoroughly gone over that 
						
							GENERAL JOSEPH LANE. Master Mason of Center Lodge. Member Indiana House
								of Representatives. United States Senator. Candidate for Vice-President
								1860.
						
						
						 Lodge's career from the time of its inception in 1822-3,
						with fourteen charter members and an increase of five during the year, down to 1900-1,
						when the last published Grand Lodge report gives to Center Lodge a total of two hundred
						and twenty-four members. Twenty-nine candidates were made Masons in Center Lodge during
						the last Lodge year and twenty-one during the year 1893, being the largest number for
						the latter year initiated by any Lodge in Indiana.
					Among the many notable men now deceased whose names have been enrolled upon Center
						Lodge's list of membership during her seventy-nine years of existence, are those of
						General Joseph Lane, the Mexican War hero, and later Governor and Senator from Oregon
						and candidate for Vice-President in 186o; Hon. William H. English, author of "The
						Conquest of the Northwest," candidate for Vice-President in 188o, and understood to be
						the oldest man to ever become a Mason in Indiana, being over seventy-one years old when
						he was raised, in 1893, to the Sublime Degree by his son, William E. English, as
						Worshipful Master, believed to be the only case on record where a son performed this
						Masonic office for a father in Indiana; Richard J. Gatling, the great inventor of the
						Gatling gun; ex-Governor Noah Noble of Indiana; ex-Governor Abram A. Hammond of Indiana;
						ex-Governor John Evans of Colorado; Hon. Rufus A. Lockwood, Hon. John D. Defrees, Hon.
						William Quarles, ex-Mayor James L. Mitchell, General Frederick Kneffler, Major Jonathan
						W. Gordon, Past Grand Master William Sheets, Prof. Hiram K.  Curtis, etc. While among the living who still do honor to the roll are found the
						names of General George F. McGinnis, General William J. McKee, Hon. Leon O. Bailey, Hon.
						Joseph E. Bell. Hon. Charles M. Cooper, Hon. John R. Pearson, Hon. Frank Wilson, Hon.
						Henry Warrum, Col. Frank Erdelmeyer, Col. George W. Bunting, Capt. J. L. Bieler,
						ex-Councilman Edward W. Little, ex-Councilman George R. Colter, ex-Councilman Samuel V.
						Perrott, Secretary Park Board Bert. L. Feibleman, Dr. W. S. Beck, Dr. C. N. Metcalf, Dr.
						R. C. Kelsey, Dr. L. C. Stewart, and last, but not least, that well-known physician and
						old and respected citizen, Dr. Patrick H. Jameson, who has the honor of being the oldest
						member in point of Masonic service in Center Lodge, having first been brought to Masonic
						light in this Lodge on January 7th, 1856, forty-five years ago.
					Center Lodge is the mother Lodge of all Indianapolis Masonry, and for the first quarter
						of a century of the city's history was the only Masonic Lodge in Indianapolis. As the
						city grew and advanced, Center Lodge grew and advanced with it until her membership
						became so large that after twenty-five years of monopoly of the Masonic field a number
						of her members joined together in the establishment of a new Lodge, known as Marion
						Lodge, No. 35, which was chartered by the Grand Lodge on May 28th, 1847.
					No other Lodges were formed for the next eighteen years, when, on May 24th, 1865,
						Capital City, No. 312, and Ancient Landmarks, No. 319, were chartered by the 
						
							HON. WILLIAM H. ENGLISH, Master Mason of Center Lodge. Speaker Indiana
								House of Representatives. Member of Congress. Candidate for Vice-President,
								1880. 
						
						
						 Grand Lodge. Since that time five other Lodges have been
						created under charters dated as follows: Mystic Tie, No. 398, May 25th, 1869; Oriental,
						No. 500, May 25th, 1875; Pentalpha, No. 564, May 24th, 1882; Logan, No. 575, May 22d,
						1888, and Veritas, No. 608, May 26th, 1896. These are all excellent and prosperous
						organizations, in every way worthy representatives of the Ancient and Honorable
						Fraternity, but a history of their affairs does not naturally possess the same general
						interest that is associated with a narrative of the growth and career of Center Lodge
						for the reason that being of comparatively modern creation they were not in existence at
						the period of especially interesting Masonic history to which the foregoing pages are
						devoted. The total membership of these nine Lodges is now two thousand and forty-two
						Master Masons in good standing, the outgrowth of the little gathering of fourteen
						brothers, who, under the banner of old Center Lodge, first planted Masonry in
						Indianapolis seventy-nine years ago.
					The present officers of Center Lodge are:

					
						HENRY C. SMITHER, Worshipful Master.
						ROBERT N. BENNETT, Senior Warden.
						ALBERT B. GLICK, Junior Warden.
						HENRY REBERSBERGER, Treasurer.
						CHARLES E. JONES, Secretary.
						GEORGE BAUER, JR., Senior Deacon.
						CHARLES T. BLIZZARD, Junior Deacon.
						IVIN F. WATSON, Steward.
						HENRY M. WOODS, Steward.
						JOSEPH BERNAUE, Tyler.
						ERNEST F. KNODLE, Organist.
					


					

					
						WORSHIPFUL MASTERS OF CENTER LODGE FROM THE ORGANIZATION IN
							1822 TO 1902.
						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							4
							Harvey Gregg
							March 27, 1822, to Dec. 27, 1823
						
						
							1
							Zenas Kimberly
							Dec. 27, 1823, to June 24, 1824
						
						
							1
							William W. Wick
							June 24, 1824, to Dec. 27, 1824
						
						
							2
							Hervey Bates
							Dec. 27, 1824, to Dec. 27, 1825
						
						
							1
							James M. Ray
							Dec. 27, 1825, to June 24, 1826
						
						
							1
							William New
							June 24, 1826, to Dec. 27, 1826
						
						
							1
							James B. Hall
							Dec. 27, 1826, to June 24, 1827
						
						
							1
							Charles I. Hand
							June 24, 1827, to Dec. 27, 1827
						
						
							1
							Bethuel F. Morris
							Dec. 27, 1827, to June 24, 1828
						
						
							1
							Benjamin I. Blythe
							June 24, 1828, to Dec. 27, 1828
						
						
							2
							Charles I. Hand
							Dec. 27, 1828, to Dec. 27, 1829
						
						
							1
							Bethuel F. Morris
							Dec. 27, 1829, to June 24, 1830
						
						
							*2
							Charles I. Hand
							Jan. 24, 1835, to Dec. 27, 1835
						
						
							3
							James L. Hogin
							Dec. 27, 1835, to June 24, 1837
						
						
							1
							Townsend Truslow
							June 24, 1837, to Dec. 27, 1837
						
						
							2
							James L. Hogin
							Dec. 27, 1837, to Dec. 27, 1838
						
						
							4
							John Foster
							Dec. 27, 1838, to Dec. 27, 1840
						
						
							1
							Benjamin I. Blythe
							Dec. 27, 1840, to June 24, 1841
						
						
							1
							Philip W. Seibert
							June 24, 1841, to Dec. 27, 1841
						
						
							1
							Charles Fisher
							Dec. 27, 1841, to June 24, 1842
						
						
							1
							John Foster
							June 24, 1842, to Dec. 27, 1842
						
						
							1
							John Cook
							Dec. 27, 1842, to June 24, 1843
						
						
							1
							Ephraim Colestock
							June 24, 1843, to Dec. 27, 1843
						
						
							3
							Thomas Donnellan
							Dec. 27, 1843, to June 24, 1844
						
						
							1
							John Foster
							June 24, 1844, to Dec. 27, 1845
						
						
							2
							Thomas Donnellan
							Dec. 27, 1845, to Dec. 27, 1846
						
						
							1
							Cunningham S. Ramsey.
							Dec. 27, 1846, to June 24, 1847
						
						
							1
							Ephraim Colestock
							June 24, 1847, to Dec. 27, 1847
						
						
							1
							James Greer
							Dec. 27, 1847, to June 24, 1848
						
						
							3
							Thomas Donnellan
							June 24, 1848, to Dec. 27, 1849
						
						
							5
							†Andrew M. Hunt
							Dec. 27, 1849, to June 24, 1853
						
						
							1
							James M. Tomlinson
							June 24, 1853, to June 24, 1854
						
						
							2
							Andrew M. Hunt
							June 24, 1854, to June 24, 1856
						
						
							1
							John C. New
							June 24, 1856, to June 24, 1857
						





						

						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						

						
							1
							Ephraim Colestock
							June 24, 1857, to June 24, 1858
						
						
							1
							John C. New
							June 24, 1858, to June 24, 1859
						
						
							1
							James M. Tomlinson
							June 24, 1859, to June 24, 1860
						
						
							2
							Aaron D. Ohr
							June 24, 1860, to June 24, 1862
						
						
							2
							William T. Clark
							June 24, 1862, to June 24, 1864
						
						
							2
							Winston P. Noble
							June 24, 1864, to June 24, 1866
						
						
							1
							William T. Clark
							June 24, 1866, to June 24, 1867
						
						
							2
							Benjamin C. Darrow
							June 24, 1867, to June 24, 1869
						
						
							*3
							Joseph Solomon
							June 24, 1869, to Dec. 27, 1871
						
						
							1
							Nicholas R. Ruckle
							Dec. 27, 1871, to Dec. 27, 1872
						
						
							1
							Joseph Solomon
							Dec. 27, 1872, to Dec. 27, 1873
						
						
							1
							Henry H. Langenberg
							Dec. 27, 1873, to Dec. 27, 1874
						
						
							1
							Robert P. Daggett
							Dec. 27, 1874, to Dec. 27, 1875
						
						
							1
							Michael H. Moore
							Dec. 27, 1875, to Dec. 27, 1876
						
						
							1
							Chester H. Buell
							Dec. 27, 1876, to Dec. 27, 1877
						
						
							1
							John Van Stan
							Dec. 27, 1877, to Dec. 27, 1878
						
						
							2
							Austin H. Brown
							Dec. 27, 1878, to Dec. 27, 1880
						
						
							1
							Frank Wilson
							Dec. 27, 1880, to Dec. 27, 1881
						
						
							1
							Hughes W. White
							Dec. 27, 1881, to Dec. 27, 1882
						
						
							2
							John J. Huffer
							Dec. 27, 1882, to Dec. 27, 1884
						
						
							1
							Joseph Solomon
							Dec. 27, 1884, to Dec. 27, 1885
						
						
							2
							Homer A. Sampsell
							Dec. 27, 1885, to Dec. 27, 1887
						
						
							1
							John Van Stan
							Dec. 27, 1887, to Dec. 27, 1888
						
						
							1
							Calvin W. Bush
							Dec. 27, 1888, to Dec. 27, 1889
						
						
							1
							John C. Biegler
							Dec. 27, 1889, to Dec. 27, 1890
						
						
							1
							John Van Stan
							Dec. 27, 1890, to Dec. 27, 1891
						
						
							1
							Calvin W. Bush
							Dec. 27, 1891, to Dec. 27, 1892
						
						
							2
							William E. English
							Dec. 27, 1892, to Dec. 27, 1894
						
						
							1
							John J. Curtis
							Dec. 27, 1894, to Dec. 27, 1895
						
						
							2
							Charles C. Gilmore
							Dec. 27, 1895, to Dec. 27, 1897
						
						
							1
							William E. English
							Dec. 27, 1897, to Dec. 27, 1898
						
						
							1
							Charles E. Jones
							Dec. 27, 1898, to Dec. 27, 1899
						
						
							2
							Fred M. Bauer
							Dec. 27, 1899, to Dec. 27, 1901
						
						
							1
							Henry C. Smither
							Dec. 27, 1901, to —, 1902
						
					

					*Under the reorganization,
						January 24th, 1835.
					†Change in the official term,
						from six months to one year, began June 24th, 1851.

					*The law changing the date of
						the annual election to December went into effect at the December stated meeting of 1869,
						thereby reducing to six months the term of the officials previously elected in
						June.


					
					
						SECRETARIES OF CENTER LODGE FROM THE ORGANIZATION IN 1822 To
							1902.
						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							3
							Samuel Henderson
							March 27, 1822, to June 24, 1823
						
						
							3
							James M. Ray
							June 24, 1823, to Dec. 27, 1824
						
						
							3
							Livingston Dunlap
							Dec. 27, 1824, to June 24, 1826
						
						
							2
							James M. Ray
							June 24, 1826, to June 24, 1827
						
						
							3
							Austin W. Morris
							June 24, 1827, to Dec. 27, 1828
						
						
							1
							William New
							Dec. 27, 1828, to June 24, 1829
						
						
							1
							Abram W. Harrison
							June 24, 1829, to Dec. 27, 1829
						
						
							1
							Austin W. Morris
							Dec. 27, 1829, to June 24, 1830
						
						
							*3
							Austin W. Morris
							Jan. 24, 1835, to June 24, 1836
						
						
							3
							Thomas M. Weaver
							June 24, 1836, to Dec. 26, 1837
						
						
							3
							Charles Fisher
							Dec. 27, 1837, to June 24, 1839
						
						
							1
							Thomas M. Weaver
							June 24, 1839, to Dec. 27, 1839
						
						
							2
							Charles Fisher
							Dec. 27, 1839, to Dec. 27, 1840
						
						
							2
							Alexander M. Brown
							Dec. 27, 1840, to Dec. 27, 1841
						
						
							1
							William H. Brumfield
							Dec. 27, 1841, to June 24, 1842
						
						
							3
							Charles Fisher
							June 24, 1842, to Dec. 27, 1843
						
						
							2
							Abram Bird
							Dec. 27, 1843, to Dec. 27, 1844
						
						
							4
							Charles Fisher
							Dec. 27, 1844, to Dec. 27, 1846
						
						
							1
							Aaron D. Ohr
							Dec. 27, 1846, to June 24, 1847
						
						
							7
							Charles Fisher
							June 24, 1847, to Dec. 27, 1850
						
						
							1
							Samuel Delzell
							Dec. 27, 1850, to June 24, 1851
						
						
							†6
							Charles Fisher
							June 24, 1851, to June 24, 1857
						
						
							1
							Francis Smith
							June 24, 1857, to June 24, 1858
						
						
							
								‡24½
							Charles Fisher
							June 24, 1858, to July 6, 1881
						
						
							§3½
							William P. Wallace,
							July 6, 1881, to Dec. 27, 1884
						
						
							1
							Marshall E. Palmer
							Dec. 27, 1884, to Dec. 27, 1885
						
						
							3
							Albert Izor
							Dec. 27, 1885, to Dec. 27, 1888
						
						
							1
							Homer E. Sampsell
							Dec. 27, 1888, to Dec. 27, 1889
						
						
							3
							Albert Izor
							Dec. 27, 1889, to Dec. 27, 1892
						
						
							1
							Henry S. Beissenherz
							Dec. 27, 1892, to Dec. 27, 1893
						
						
							7
							Albert Izor
							Dec. 27, 1893, to Dec. 27, 1900
						
						
							2
							Charles E. Jones
							Dec. 27, 1900, to —, 1902
						
					
					*Under the reorganization,
						January 24th, 1835.
					†Change in official term from
						six months to one year began June 24th, 1851.
					‡Date of annual election
						changed from June to December in 1869, thereby reducing to six months the terms of the
						officers previously elected in June.
					§Elected to fill the vacancy
						caused by the resignation of Charles Fisher, July 6th, 1881.


					

					MEMBERS OF CENTER LODGE JANUARY 1, 1902.

					
						Adler, Julius
						Aldrich, J. D.
						Allen, John
						Althoff, August W.
						Anderson, Robert
						Anderson, William S.
						Asch, Adolph
						Bailey, Leon O.
						Barker, Henry
						Barnkamp, C. F.
						Bauer, Fred M.
						Dauer, George, Sr.
						Bauer, George, Jr.
						Beaning, William
						Beck, Henry A.
						Beck, W. S.
						Bell, Joseph E.
						Bennett, Robert N.
						Bernauer, Joseph
						Betts, John W.
						Bieler, J. L.
						Bills, Harry G.
						Bliss, George W.
						Blizzard, Charles T.
						Blizzard, 0. C.
						Blume, Sam
						Borenstein, Joseph
						Bowen, Adrian
						Bradfor, F. T.
						Brown, Charles E.
						Brown, Harold C.
						Brown, J. C.
						Brown, Joseph E.
						Bryant, Harry
						Bucksot, Walter
						Bullock, O. L.
						Carmichael, T. W.
						Cavanagh, Harry C.
						Colter, Geo. R.
						Clark, Jonathan M.

						Cleaveland, Calvin C.
						Coleman, C. M.
						Collins, James L.
						Connor, O. I.
						Cooper, Charles M.
						Crawford, Stephen M.
						Cunningham, H. A.
						Curtis, John J.
						Dannettelle, F. F.
						Draper, Edward W.
						Echols, H. H.
						Emhardt, Adolph G.
						English, William E.
						Erdelmeyer, Frank
						Eusey, S. L.
						Eusey, John
						Falender, Julius
						Falender, Samuel
						Farmer, J. B.
						Fatout, M. K.
						Feibleman, Bert L.
						Fickinger, D. H.
						Finehout, C. H.
						Flaig, M. V.
						Ferguson, William C.
						Fuller, E. C.
						 
						Furnas, Walter J.
						Gall, Albert, Jr.
						Gaston, George B.
						Gilmore, Charles C.
						Gioscio, John
						Glass, Frank L,
						Glazier, J. T.
						Glick, Albert
						Goddard, Samuel, Jr.
						Gregory, Walter
						Gresh, Benjamin F.
						Gross, Orville
						Gross, Philip E.




						

						Haas, Leon
						Halderman, M. O.
						Hancock, H. A.
						Hansen, Andrew C.
						Hedges, Edward W.
						Hansing, Fred A.
						Harms, Charles A.
						Harwood, James
						Hartman, A. W.
						Hanson, Alpha B.
						Hearsey, Henry T.
						Herrlick, Herman
						Herrmann, George E.
						Hesse, Wm. F.
						Howell, Edward W.
						Hughes, William A.
						Igoe, Trustin K.
						Izor, Albert
						Jaffe, Bert
						Jameson, P. H.
						Jenkins, Charles W.
						Jones, Charles E.
						Joseph, Gustav
						Kahn, David
						Kendrick, Harry D.
						Kantrowitz, I. M.
						Kennington, E. A.
						Klinck, Louis
						Knight, John
						Knodle, Ernest F.
						Kockert, Max P.
						Kamps, Frank G.
						Krumshield, Louis P.
						Laakman, Fred
						Langbein, Theodore
						Leibowitz, S.
						Leith, Thomas D.
						Lester D. Belmont
						Levy, l
						
						Levy, P val 
						Lichtenauer, Fred
						Liebrock, Fred T.
						Lincoln, W. E.

						Little, Edward W.
						Loebenberg, Abe
						Logan, Earl P.
						Lowe, E. E.
						Lukenbill, O. C.
						McClain, Douglass
						McClelland, E. C.
						McElwaine, Claude M.
						McGauley, James
						McGaw, John A.
						McIntire, H. E.
						McKee, A. C.
						McKee, Wm. J.
						Magennis, Elmer
						Magennis, James
						Magennis, John
						Mann, John
						Mansur, Charles W.
						Marer, Philip
						Mayer, Joseph, Jr.
						Meyer, Albert F.
						Meyer, Leopold
						Miller, Claud B.
						Mitchell, Douglas
						Montesano, Frank
						Moore, John
						Moore, M. H.
						Moore, Wm. T.
						Morris, Nathan
						Morrison, S. A.
						Moulton, R. J.
						Mount, Charles F.
						Munter, K.
						Myles, John E.
						Neidlander, Allen O.
						Neumeyer, J. A.
						Newland, A. L.
						Nutting, F. W.
						Obwald, Sam
						Owens, John T.
						Parker, O. T.
						Pearson, John R.
						Peck, Thomas C.



						

						Peck, Wm. H.
						Perrott, Samuel V.
						Petrie, William
						Phillips, Wilbur H.
						Pope, George K.
						Pope, E. S.
						Power, Luke W.
						Pugh, J. P.
						Pugh, Samuel W.
						Raschbacker, E. L.
						Rebesberger, Henry
						Reid, Lee C.
						Reisner, C. F. W.
						Riley, John H.
						Ripley, J. W.
						Roch, Tobias
						Rohde, A. E.
						Routier, Anatole B.
						Ryder, J. M.
						Sanders, J. L.
						Saunders, H. R.
						Scharn, J. H.
						Schneider, John
						Schussler, Frank
						Sciarra, Antonio
						Scott, Arthur E.
						Scott, John P.
						Scott, William A.
						Seery, Thomas F.
						Seitz, Jacob
						Selig, Abram
						Shaler, Wm. H.
						Sharp, I. W.
						Sharp, T. J.
						Shellhouse, C. H.
						Shellhouse, Frank
						Shellhouse, William S.
						Sindlinger, Charles
						Sindlinger, Peter
						Skidmore, John H.
						Slater, J. H.

						Smith, Charles N.
						Smith, Frank J.
						Smither, Henry C.
						Sogemeier, William
						Salge, Henry
						Solomon, Joseph
						Spangler, F. J.
						Spielhoff, Henry
						Stephens, Samuel
						Stevenson, William
						Stewart, L. C.
						Stewart, H. P.
						Sussman, L.
						Tague, F. M.
						Thomas, John C.
						Thomas, W. K.
						Thorne, Charles E.
						Tyler, Ralph B.
						VanStan, John
						Voss, Jay G.
						Walker, John Allen
						Wallace, F. H.
						Wall, David
						Warne, Joseph B.
						Warrum, Henry
						Watson, Ivin F.
						Webb, Ira C.
						Weber, Charles E.
						Webster, J. H.
						Weadon, Frank P.
						White, Charles G.
						Williams, John H.
						Wilson, Frank
						Witman, Harrison T.
						Witty, J. H.
						Woessner, Geo. C.
						Woods, H. M.
						Wurgler, Adolph
						Zaiser, L. T. F.
						Zell, Walter
					
					Total membership—245.
				

				
					

					MARION LODGE, NO. 35, FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS.


					On October 22d, 1846, at "early candle light," there met for the first time in Center
						Lodge Hall (which was then situated on the site where the New York Store now stands),
						the original eight members of Marion Lodge, they having been granted by Grand Master
						Johnson Watts a dispensation to organize a new Lodge, after having duly received the
						consent of their parent Lodge, Center No. 23.
					These eight founders of Marion Lodge were Dr. John Evans, John Greer, Hugh J. Bradley,
						Augusta Smith, Samuel S. Rooker, John D. Defrees, William C. Johnston and J. W.
						Kettleman. The records of the first meeting show that John Evans acted as first
						Worshipful Master, John Greer as first Senior Warden, and Hugh J. Bradley as first
						Junior Warden. John D. Defrees was the Secretary. There were present as visitors: Thomas
						Donnellan, Ephraim Colestock, Henry Colestock, Aaron D. Ohr, Charles Fisher, William
						Sullivan, William H. Lingenfelter, James Greer and many others, all members of Center
						Lodge, who met with their old associates to assist in every way possible in the new
						Masonic undertaking 
						
							JOHN EBERT.
						
						
							JACKSON SAYLOR.
						
						
							ROGER PARRY.
						
						
							JAMES A. ILIFF.
						
						
							HUGH J. DRUMMOND.
						
						
							EARLIEST WORSHIPFUL MASTERS OF MARION LODGE, Who are still
								members of the Lodge.
						
						
						 and to tender for the winter the use of their hall free of
						charge, which was gratefully and cheerfully accepted. Thus at the beginning a friendship
						was formed between the old and new Lodge that after a lapse of fifty-five years still
						remains unbroken.
					There were presented at this meeting the petitions for membership of John Wood, William
						Sargent and I. A. Dearringer.
					May 28th, 1847, a charter was granted to the then seventeen members of Marion Lodge,
						No. 35, and on the evening of that day the Grand Master, Elizur Deming, assisted by the
						other Grand Lodge officials, installed the officers under charter, as follows:
					
						JOHN EVANS, Worshipful Master.
						JOHN GREER, Senior Warden.
						HUGH J. BRADLEY, Junior Warden.
						JOHN WOOD, Treasurer.
						JOHN D. DEFREES, Secretary.
						AUGUSTA SMITH, Senior Deacon.
						SAMUEL S. ROOKER, Junior Deacon.
						I. A. DEARRINGER, Tyler.
					
					There were again present many of the members of Center Lodge, assisting in the work.
						After the installation the Grand Master delivered an appropriate address, following
						which Worshipful Master John Evans, on behalf of the Lodge, invited the Grand Lodge
						officers and the visiting members of Center Lodge to the banquet hall, where speech
						making followed the banquet, and many  good wishes were
						expressed for the welfare and prosperity of the new Lodge that had been added to the
						roll of the Grand Lodge of the State of Indiana.
					At the June stated meeting Brother John D. Defrees, chairman of the committee on
						by-laws, reported back a set of by-laws for the government of the Lodge, which was
						adopted and which has been in force since that time, except Section 4, Article 4, which
						read as follows:
					"When disputes arise between any of the brethren, it shall be the duty of the brother
						aggrieved to go to the offender alone and, if possible, settle it themselves according
						to the excellent instructions of St. Matthew, Chap. 18, beginning at the 15th verse,
						which reads— 'Moreover, if thy brother shall trespass against thee, go and tell
						him his fault between thee and him alone: if he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy
						brother. But if he will not hear thee, then take with thee one or two more, that in the
						mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established; but if they can not
						agree, then they shall choose two Masons to mediate between them, and if they can not
						restore harmony between the brothers then either of them may complain to the Lodge,
						which shall judge between them and decide according to the offense."
					This good old Masonic law, although rather peculiarly expressed, would be good law even
						in these latter days and in some respects it is to be regretted that it was ever found
						necessary to strike it from the records.
					Dr. John Evans, the first Worshipful Master, later  became
						Governor of Colorado, and was long one of the leading public men of the West. He was one
						of the first to advocate before the Legislature of Indiana the erection of the State
						Hospital for the Insane, and James Blake, Dr. Livingston Dunlap (members of Center
						Lodge) and Dr. Evans formed the original Board of Commissioners, appointed January 13th,
						1845, that located the Insane Hospital on its present site, which was at that time the
						farm of Nathaniel Bolton, a member of Marion Lodge, and proprietor of the Indianapolis
						Sentinel, and the husband of Sarah T. Bolton, Indiana's famous poetess. Dr. Evans was
						appointed President of the first Board of Trustees upon the completion of the Hospital,
						and so remained many years. He removed to Chicago at an early day and was one of the
						pioneers of that city. He laid the foundation of the Northwestern University at
						Evanston, which was named for him, and practically established the public school system
						there, fighting in the Council, of which he was a member, for large funds to carry out
						his plans. In Chicago he promoted the construction of the Fort Wayne Railway, and it was
						largely due to his personal activity that the line was completed. Removing to Denver, he
						manifested the same energy that had previously characterized him, and built the first
						Methodist Church of any pretensions. He also endowed the University of Denver, patterned
						after the Northwestern, with a donation of one hundred thousand dollars. He became an
						active railroad promoter, being  interested in the
						construction of the Kansas Pacific, and later the Denver and Ft. Worth Railways and the
						Denver, Leadville and Gunnison Railway. He also constructed in Denver one of the most
						perfect systems of electric railways in the country, which was his last great work.
					Dr. Evans was one of the delegates to the convention which nominated Abraham Lincoln
						for the presidency of the United States in 186o, and was one of Mr. Lincoln's most loyal
						supporters. He was rewarded with the position of Governor of Washington Territory when
						Mr. Lincoln became President, but declined it. The appointment of Governor of the
						Territory of Colorado was more agreeable to him, however, and this he accepted in 1861.
						He filled the office until President Johnson came into control, when his successor was
						appointed. Dr. Evans was twice elected United States Senator by the Colorado
						Legislature, but President Johnson nullified the election by vetoing the bill making
						Colorado a State.
					He died at Denver July 4th, 1897, at the advanced age of eighty-three years.
					John Greer, the first Senior Warden of the Lodge, was, it is said, among the first in
						everything connected with the active affairs of the early growth of the town, and no
						log-rolling or house-raising gathering was complete without him. He long successfully
						carried on a brick yard in Indianapolis at the point where McCarty and Greer streets now
						cross each other. He died in 1853.
					Hugh J. Bradley, the first Junior Warden, was a 
						
							GOV. JOHN EVANS, First Worshipful Master of Marion Lodge.
								Governor of Colorado.
						
						
						 successful carpenter and bridge builder, and in the early
						days was generally conceded to be the best wood-worker in the town.
					John Wood, the first Treasurer, was the owner of the first stage line between
						Indianapolis and Madison, and Indianapolis and Richmond, and was the founder of the
						livery stable on Monument Place that is now carried on by his grandson, Horace F. Wood,
						an active member of Capital City Lodge. He died in January, 1848, leaving descendants
						who are well-known citizens of Indianapolis.
					Hon. John D. Defrees was a native of Ohio, and when a young man studied law in the
						office of the famous Tom Corwin. On his removal to Indianapolis he engaged in the
						printing business and later became the proprietor of the Indianapolis Journal. He was a
						leader in politics and long a prominent citizen of Indiana, and removed to Washington
						City upon his appointment by President Lincoln to the important office of Public
						Printer. He was the father of Morris M. Defrees, the well-known civil engineer of this
						city, who is an active member of Mystic Tie Lodge.
					July 12th, 1847, Marion Lodge subscribed for three hundred dollars' worth of shares in
						the new Grand Lodge Hall stock, and the members pledged themselves individually to see
						that each share was paid for.
					December 27th, 1850, the members of Center and Marion Lodges held a joint public
						installation of officers, with the Grand Master present, who in person installed the
						officers of each Lodge, after which all assembled 
						adjourned to the banquet hall, where a general good time was enjoyed. At this meeting we
						find present as a Grand Lodge officer, Francis King, a worthy brother of Marion Lodge,
						who served as Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge for over twelve consecutive years.
						Among those present were Hon. Caleb B. Smith and Governor James Whitcomb, who were both
						elected honorary members of Marion Lodge on this occasion. Among the members on the
						Lodge's roll at this time we find:

					
						Stoughton Fletcher,
						Calvin Fletcher,
						Horace Fletcher,
						Solomon Roll,
						Nathaniel Bolton,
						Capt. John M. Lord,
						Dr. Lawson Abbett,
						Dr. Fristy,

						Caleb Scudder,
						Fielding Beeler,
						Charles Mayer,
						John Shallenberger,
						William J. Wallace,
						Gen. John Love,
						Dr. Talbot Bullard,
						Dr. William R. Nofsinger,
					

					and many other old residents who have answered the final summons.
					Among the early members who are still living, none is more active or faithful in Lodge
						work than the venerable Roger Parry, who has had the honor of being nine times elected
						Worshipful Master of Marion Lodge, and who has conferred more degrees in the Lodge,
						Chapter, Council and Commandery than any other Mason in the city of Indianapolis, and is
						still one of the most regular in attendance at all Lodge meetings.
					Since the Charter was granted the Lodge has elected 
						thirty-two Worshipful Masters, fourteen Treasurers and seven Secretaries. The names of
						nine hundred and eight members were entered on the roll of the Lodge from its
						organization, in 1846 to June 6th, 1900oo, of which number at that date there had been
						dimitted, three hundred and fourteen; suspended and expelled, one hundred and
						eighty-three; died, one hundred and eighty-six; members in good standing, two hundred
						and twenty-five.
					Many of the dimitted members joined Capital City Lodge, No. 312; Ancient Landmarks, No.
						319; Mystic Tie, No. 398; Oriental, No. 500; Pentalpha, No. 564, and Logan, No. 574, as
						these various Lodges were organized. From the date of its organization down to the
						present time Marion Lodge has grown and prospered slowly but surely, and it to-day
						possesses an earnest, loyal, united membership, of which any Masonic Lodge might well be
						proud.
					Among the well-known citizens who are now members of Marion Lodge are:
					Mayor Charles A. Bookwalter, Hon. John B. Elam, Hon. John W. Holtzman, Frederick J.
						Mack, ex-President of the Board of Safety; Nelson J. Hyde, ex-President of the Board of
						Safety; Dr. Charles H. Abbett, Dr. George D. Kahlo, Dr. John J. Booz, E. C. Atkins,
						Arthur V. Brown, Roger Parry, H. H. Lee, William R. Evans, Hugh J. Drummond, etc.


					

					The present officers of Marion Lodge are:
					
						JOHN J. Booz, Worshipful Master.
						STEPHEN O. SHARP, Senior Warden.
						HENRY H. DUPONT, Junior Warden.
						CHARLES S. RONEY, Treasurer.
						HUGH J. DRUMMOND, Secretary.
						CHARLES A. BROWN, Senior Deacon.
						EUGENE PASQUIRE, Junior Deacon.
						JOHN M. WALL, Steward.
						WILLIAM L. EVANS, Steward.
						JACKSON SAYLOR, Tyler.
					
					
						WORSHIPFUL MASTERS OF MARION LODGE FROM THE ORGANIZATION IN
							1846 To 1902.
						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name. 
							Time of Service.
						

						
							3
							John Evans
							Oct. 22, 1846, to June 19, 1848
						
						
							2
							John Greer
							June 19, 1848, to June 20, 1849
						
						
							1
							Hugh J. Bradley
							June 20, 1849, to Dec. 21, 1849
						
						
							*3
							William H. Karns
							Dec. 21, 1849, to June 22, 1851
						
						
							†2½
							Francis King
							June 22, 1851, to Dec. 23, 1853
						
						
							‡2½
							Moses Wolf
							Dec. 23, 1853, to June 20, 1856
						
						
							2
							Ellis L. Aker
							June 20, 1856, to June 21, 1858
						
						
							5
							John M. Bramwell
							June 21, 1858, to June 19, 1863
						
						
							4
							Roger Parry
							June 19, 1863, to June 20, 1867
						
						
							§½
							John M. Bramwell
							June 20, 1867, to Dec. 21, 1867
						
						
							║2½
							John Ebert
							Dec. 21, 1867, to June 22, 1869
						
						
							**4
							Jackson Saylor
							June 22, 1869, to Dec. 21, 1872
						



						
						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							1
							Harry C. McFarland
							Dec. 21, 1872, to Dec. 22, 1873
						
						
							1
							Jackson Saylor
							Dec. 22, 1873, to Dec. 23, 1874
						
						
							2
							Thomas C. Roat
							Dec. 23, 1874, to Dec. 19, 1876
						
						
							1
							Isaiah J. Schafer
							Dec. 19, 1876, to Dec. 23, 1877
						
						
							1
							Cantwell Johnson
							Dec. 23, 1877, to Dec. 19, 1878
						
						
							3
							James A. Iliff
							Dec. 19, 1878, to Dec. 22, 1881
						
						
							3
							Hugh J. Drummond
							Dec. 22, 1881, to Dec. 23, 1884
						
						
							1
							James A. Iliff
							Dec. 23, 1884, to Dec. 20, 1885
						
						
							2
							Roger Parry
							Dec. 20, 1885, to Dec. 21, 1887
						
						
							*½
							William C. Langdon
							Dec. 21, 1887, to June 15, 1888
						
						
							†½
							William H. Short
							June 15, 1888, to Dec. 21, 1888
						
						
							1
							Roger Parry
							Dec. 21, 1888, to Dec. 20, 1889
						
						
							2
							Richard G. Wellman
							Dec. 20, 1889, to Dec. 20, 1891
						
						
							2
							Thomas G. Harrison
							Dec. 20, 1891, to Dec. 19, 1893
						
						
							2
							William R. Evans
							Dec. 19, 1893, to Dec. 21, 1895
						
						
							2
							Jacob Watts
							Dec. 21, 1895, to Dec. 15, 1897
						
						
							1
							William R. Evans
							Dec. 15, 1897, to Dec. 15, 1898
						
						
							1
							David K. Louthan
							Dec. 15, 1898, to Dec. 16, 1899
						
						
							1
							George H. Mueller
							Dec. 16, 1899, to Dec. 18, 1900
						
						
							1
							Horatio A. Roney
							Dec. 18, 1900, to Dec. 19, 1901
						
						
							1
							John J. Booz
							Dec. 19, 1901, to — , 1902
						
					
					*Change in official term from
						six months to one year began June 22d, 1851.
					†Resigned December 23d,
						1853.
					‡Elected to fill vacancy
						December 23d, 1853.
					§Resigned December 21st,
						1867.
					║Elected to fill vacancy
						December 21st, 1867.
					**The law changing the date
						of the annual election to December went into effect at the December stated meeting of
						1869, thereby reducing to six months the term of the officials previously elected in
						June of that year.
					*Resigned June 15th,
						1888.
					†Elected to fill vacancy June
						15th, 1888.

					
						SECRETARIES OF MARION LODGE FROM THE ORGANIZATION IN 1846 TO
							1902.
						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							3
							John D. Defrees
							Oct. 22, 1846, to June 19, 1848
						
						
							4
							Isaiah H. Sharpe
							June 19, 1848, to June 20, 1850
						
						
							‡2
							Francis King
							June 20, 1850, to June 22, 1851
						
						
							§2½
							John M. Bramwell
							June 22, 1851, to Dec. 23, 1853
						
						
							║11
							Francis King
							Dec. 23, 1853, to Dec. 21, 1864
						


						

						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							*2½
							John M. Bramwell
							Dec. 21, 1864, to June 20, 1867
						
						
							†½
							John Waters
							June 20, 1867, to Dec. 21, 1867
						
						
							‡5½
							John M. Bramwell
							Dec. 21, 1867, to Dec. 21, 1872
						
						
							5
							John Waters
							Dec. 21, 1872, to Dec. 19, 1877
						
						
							7
							John B. Elam
							Dec. 19, 1877, to Dec. 19, 1884
						
						
							18
							Hugh J. Drummond
							Dec. 19, 1884, to — , 1902
						
					
					‡Change in official term from
						six months to one year began June 32d, 1851.
					§Resigned December 23d,
						1853.
					║Elected to fill vacancy
						December 23d, 1853. Resigned December 21st, 1864. Elected 12 times, filling two half
						terms.
					*Elected to fill vacancy
						December 21st, 1864.
					†Resigned December 21st,
						1867.
					‡Elected to fill vacancy
						December 21st, 1867. Date of annual election changed from June to December in 1869,
						thereby reducing to six months the term of officers previously elected in June of that
						year.

					MEMBERS OF MARION LODGE JANUARY 1, 1902.
					
						Abbett, Charles H.
						Abbett, Francis M.
						Abbott, Ernst
						Appel, D. Fred
						Arthur, William
						Astry, George H.
						Atkins, Elias C.
						Balfour, John
						Brown, Arthur V.
						Barnum, Charles E.
						Bundy, John P.
						Bell, Thompson R.
						Barnes, Willard H.
						Beachans, James H.
						Bookwalter, Charles A.
						Burnett, Lee
						Bye, Ben F.
						Booz, John J.
						Bassett, Homer D.
						Booz, Edward G.
						Beck, William
						Bowman, William W.
						Browning, Thomas H.
						Bundy, Morris E.
						Bernauer, Charles A.
						Brown, Charles A.
						Batt, Horace A.
						Beeler, Fielding
						Bailey, Frank G.
						Blodaw, Robert P.
						Baker, Frank T.
						Baker, Victor W.
						Borger, Henry J.
						Bray, Edward S.
						Cleveland, Charles E.
						Coffman, Joshua S.
						Crane, Stephen D.
						Cobb, Arthur W.
						Cummings, Marshall
						Colter, Charles W.
						Cain, John C.
						Crawford, Edward G.
						Cavender, Frank S.
						Chamness, Oscar L.
						Carey, Ben J.
						Carmody, Fred
						Doeppers, James W.
						Drummond, Hugh J.


						

						Drummond, James G.
						Dungan, Robert B.
						Davis, Charles G.
						Deitch, Oscar L.
						Dupont, Henry H.
						Duncan, Franklin E.
						Duncan, Frank H.
						Ebert, John
						Elam, John B.,
						Elder, Robert
						Evans, William R.
						Ecklin, Charles A.
						Eshbach, Will A.
						Endsley, George W.
						Efroymson, Meyer
						Evans, William L.
						Fowler, Alden S.
						Fowler, Harry C.
						Frieburg, John
						Fulmer, Charles H.
						Fraser, S. P.
						Fraser, S. D.
						Frazer, Henry G.
						Farmer, George E.
						Foss, Jesse O.
						Fountain, Thomas P.
						Faught, Orin P.
						Fry, Cyrus E.
						Ferger, Edward
						Fort, Milton P.
						Fischer, Arthur
						Finley, Robert E.
						Gimbel, William H.
						Gorham, Henry K.
						Gillett, Arthur J.
						Gwin, John E.
						Goldburg, Louis
						Gannon, George W.
						Guisendorf, Claude
						Geisendorif, George T.
						Haas, Joseph
						Herndon, J. Pitts
						Holland, Theodore F.
						Hosman, John W.
						Harrison, Thomas G.
						Hawes, Judson S.
						Holtzman, John W.
						Hyde, Nelson J.
						Henze, Henry G.
						Houser, John A.
						Helm, Henry W.
						Hoover, John J.
						Hall, Henry H.
						Hollenbeck, Jacob G.
						Hawke, James E.
						Hunt, Eldon B.
						Hall, Archie
						Huhn, Peter
						Harding, John F.
						Haslet, William H.
						Hamlin, Fred C.
						Hoffman, William H.
						Hull, Wade
						Iliff, James A.
						Irving, Jacob R.
						Johnson, Alvin H.
						Jenkins, Frank
						Johnson, Jesse T.
						Jones, Wayne C.
						Kregelo, Charles E.
						Karstetter, Wm. B.
						Kriel, William
						Kahlo, George D.
						Kastner, William H.
						Kyle, William R.
						King, Frost
						Layton, Timothy L.
						Lee, Henry H.
						Louthan, David K.
						Long, Henry
						Long, William C.
						Lowe, John
						Loth, John
						Lehman, George
						Limbert, Charles A.
						Littleton, Albert M.


						

						Layton, Robert M.
						Metzger, Jacob
						Mueller, George H., No. 1
						Mack, Fred J.
						Moore, Samuel
						Mayer, Lee S.
						Mayhew, Harry M.
						Mueller, Charles G.
						Mueller, George H., No. 2
						Muller, John H.
						Mathers, Lee H.
						Munson, David
						Mansfield, Thomas
						Maxwell, Stewart W.
						Miller, Edward R.
						Miller, Otho F.
						Merrill, William J.
						McDade, Samuel
						McVey, Charles P.
						McLeay, John D.
						Malpas, S. H.
						Meng, Arthur S.
						Miller, Fred, Jr.
						Mediner, William H.
						Nelson, Charles
						Navin, John
						Osburn, Hiram T.
						Osburn, David L.
						Owen, Oren T.
						Parry, Roger
						Pasquire, John B.
						Patterson, William O.
						Peake, Benj. J.
						Pedlow, Edward
						Pickrell, William N.
						Pasquire, Eugene
						Pryor, Harry A.
						Prince, Edward C.
						Picard, Frank J.
						Robertson, William
						Rodenburger, Samuel
						Roll, William H.
						Roney, Charles S.
						Rehm, Eugene J.
						Redding, Jeremiah
						Roney, Horatio A.
						Ridgely, Henry G.
						Radford, George A.
						Reidy, Michael
						Richter, John F.
						Richter, William H.
						Saylor, Jackson
						Scholl, Charles
						Sharp, Stephen
						Simmons, Alonzo J.
						Stofer, Thomas
						Stott, Edward G.
						Stoddard, Samuel E.
						Sullivan, Harry M.
						Stinson, Parris B.
						Selvage, William J.
						Schoen, Edward
						Sickford, George A.
						Schumaker, Samuel E.
						Swan, Joseph C.
						Souders, Oren O.
						Sawyers, John M.
						Schomberg, William L.
						Scholt, Charles E.
						Shepherd, James E.
						Sheets, Harry
						Sharp, Stephen O.
						Stelding, Alfred D.
						Swank, Alvin D.
						Schultz, Herman H.
						Stotler, George W.
						Steeb, Emil
						Simon, Otto H.
						Sargent, Albert B.
						Techentine, Henry
						Tevis, Charles S.
						Tyre, Charles W.
						Thomas, James B.
						Tudor, William H.
						Twyman, James E.
						Talbott, Burt




						

						Temperly, Harry
						Terry, William O.
						Thomas, Albert
						Thompson, Albert R.
						Watts, Jacob
						Williams, Reese R.
						Witthoft, August
						Witthoft, Henry
						Wright, Harry C.
						Wilson, Randolph
						Webb, Charles P.
						Warner, John
						Warner, Charles T.
						Whallon, James I.
						Webb, Edward S.
						Wilcox, Oliver C.
						Weil, Joseph
						Waggoner, Ed B.
						Williams, Griffith W.
						Wright, Roland F.
						Woolsey, Jesse F.
						Wesbey, Charles E.
						Wright, John S.
						Wolf, Louis
						Wall, John M.
						Werts, Noah S.
						Withoeft, William
						Williams, John M.
						Weaver, George R.
						Withoeft, Francis G.
						Wachsteller, Charles H.
						Welch, John W.
						Zimmerman, Charles L.
					
					Total membership—256.


				
				
					

					CAPITAL CITY LODGE, NO. 312,FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS.


					The meeting to organize Capital City Lodge under a dispensation from the Grand Lodge,
						issued May 26th, 1864, was held the first day of June of that year. At this meeting
						twelve Master Masons became the original members of the Lodge, being the founders
						thereof by virtue of having signed the petition for the dispensation. Five of these came
						from Center Lodge, No. 23; five from Marion Lodge, No. 35; one from New York, and one
						from Western Star Lodge, No. 26, of Danville, Indiana. Their names are shown by the
						following list:
					
						William H. Smith, Center Lodge, No. 23.
						J. S. Wigmore, Center Lodge, No. 23.
						William M. Wright, Center Lodge, No. 23.
						George H. Fleming, Center Lodge, No. 23.
						Aaron D. Ohr, Center Lodge, No. 23.
						Norval M. Ferguson, Center Lodge, No. 23.
						Valentine Rothrock, Center Lodge, No. 23.
						Joseph F. Trowbridge, Marion Lodge, No. 35.
						Jacob King, Marion Lodge, No. 35.
						William M. Davis, Marion Lodge, No. 35.

						

						
							THOMAS E. SPAFFORD.
						
						
							WILLIAM W. THICKSTEN.
						
						
							ALBERT SMITH.
						
						
							HERVEY B. FATOUT.
						
						
							FRANK H. SCHOPPENHORST.
						
						
							WORSHIPFUL MASTERS OF CAPITAL CITY LODGE In recent years.
						


						
						

						Jefferson Harper, Western Star Lodge, No. 26, Danville, Indiana.
						W. F. McAllister, New York.
					
					The first set of officers under dispensation were:
					
						AARON D. OHR, Worshipful Master.
						JOSEPH F. TROWBRIDGE, Senior Warden.
						JACOB KING, Junior Warden.
						WILLIAM M. DAVIS, Treasurer.
						WILLIAM H. SMITH, Secretary.
						J. S. WIGMORE, Senior Deacon.
						W. F. MCALLISTER, Junior Deacon.
						JEFFERSON HARPER, Steward.
						WILLIAM M. WRIGHT, Steward.
					
					The first petition for the degrees was received at the first stated meeting, held June
						7th, 1864, and George H. Ferry had the honor of being the first initiate.
					During the six months under dispensation, ending December 6th, 1864, twenty-six
						meetings were held, seven of which were stated and nineteen special meetings. At the
						stated meeting held June 6th, 1865, the following were present as officers:
					
						AARON D. OHR, Worshipful Master.
						JOSEPH F. TROWBRIDGE, Senior Warden.
						JACOB KING, Junior Warden.
						FREDERICK BAGGS, Acting Secretary.
						GEORGE H. FLEMING, Senior Deacon.
						W. F. MCALLISTER, Junior Deacon.
						"BROTHER" WILSON, Acting Tyler.
					


					

					Immediately after the opening of the Lodge Worshipful Master Ohr presented the Charter,
						which had been granted by the Grand Lodge May 24th, 1865, after which Brother John M.
						Bramwell, Worshipful Master, of Marion Lodge, No. 35, acting under authority from the
						Grand Master, proceeded to install the first officers under Charter, as follows:
					
						AARON D. OHR, Worshipful Master.
						JOSEPH F. TROWBRIDGE, Senior Warden.
						JACOB KING, Junior Warden.
						WILLIAM M. DAVIS, Treasurer.
						WILLIAM H. SMITH, Secretary.
						GEORGE H. FLEMING, Senior Deacon.
						W. F. MCALLISTER, Junior Deacon.
					
					The minutes fail to show the Tyler in this instance, and the name of the same official
						was omitted from the list of officers under dispensation. The minutes also fail to give
						the names of the charter members, but they show that from June 1st, 1864, to December
						1st of the same year there were seven candidates initiated, seven passed as Fellowcrafts
						and seven raised to Master Masons. In addition to these, there were thirteen members
						added by affiliation and one lost by dimit, making a total of nineteen new members at
						the time the charter was granted.
					Among the well-known members of Capital City Lodge at the present time are ex-County
						Treasurer Hiram W. Miller, ex-County Clerk Austin H. Brown, ex-County Commissioner
						Allison C. Remy, ex-Councilman Thomas 
						
							TOM ODDY, Secretary of Capital City Lodge for the past ten years.
						
						
						 J. Morse, ex-City Clerk John F. Geckler, Sheriff Eugene
						Saulcy, Superintendent State Insane Hospital Dr. George F. Edenharter, Dr. Charles S.
						Boynton, Dr. Morris H. Raschig, Captain Marquis L. Johnson, Hon. William W. Spencer,
						William Schoppenhorst, William W. Thicksten, Joseph F. Flack, Thomas B. Linn, Tom Oddy,
						etc.

					
						The present officers of Capital City Lodge are:
						ALBERT SMITH, Worshipful Master.
						THOMAS E. THICKSTEN, Senior Warden.
						JAMES B. NELSON, Junior Warden.
						WILLIAM SCHOPPENHORST, Treasurer.
						TOM ODDY, Secretary.
						LESLIE D. CLANCY, Senior Deacon.
						HARRY T. WISHMIER, Junior Deacon.
						RAYMOND E. CULVER, Steward.
						CHARLES B. MCCREERY, Steward.
						JOHN H. HUMAN, Organist.
						WILLIAM H. ISGRIGG, SR., Tyler.
					

					
						WORSHIPFUL MASTERS OF CAPITAL CITY LODGE FROM THE ORGANIZATION
							IN 1864 TO 1902.
						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							3
							Aaron D. Ohr
							June 1, 1864, to Dec. 26, 1866
						
						
							2
							William M. Davis
							Dec. 26, 1866, to Dec. 29, 1868
						
						
							3
							William H. Ireland
							Dec. 29, 1868, to Dec. 27, 1871
						
						
							2
							Abraham L. Stoner
							Dec. 27, 1871, to Dec. 30, 1873
						
						
							2
							William M. Davis
							Dec. 30, 1873, to Dec. 28, 1875
						
						
							1
							William H. Ireland
							Dec. 28, 1875, to Dec. 26, 1876
						
						
							1
							William Kitzmiller
							Dec. 26, 1876, to Dec. 18, 1877
						
						
							1
							Rollin C. Irwin
							Dec. 18, 1877, to Dec. 27, 1878
						
						
							2
							William M. Davis
							Dec. 27, 1878, to Dec. 28, 1880
						
						
							1
							William Kitzmiller
							Dec. 28, 1880, to Dec. 27, 1881
						
						
							3
							John Howard Heavin
							Dec. 27, 1881, to Dec. 30, 1884
						



						

						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							1
							William Kitzmiller
							Dec. 30, 1884, to Dec. 29, 1885
						
						
							1
							Thomas E. Spafford
							Dec. 29, 1885, to Dec. 28, 1886
						
						
							3
							William Kitzmiller
							Dec. 28, 1886, to Dec. 31, 1889
						
						
							4
							Wm. Schoppenhorst
							Dec. 31, 1889, to Dec. 22, 1893
						
						
							3
							William W. Thicksten
							Dec. 22, 1893, to Dec. 15, 1896
						
						
							1
							Hervey B. Fatout
							Dec. 15, 1896, to Dec. 18, 1897
						
						
							3
							Frank H. Schoppenhorst.
							Dec. 18, 1897, to Dec. 15, 1900
						
						
							2
							Albert Smith
							Dec. 15, 1900, to —, 1902
						
					
					
						SECRETARIES OF CAPITAL CITY LODGE FROM THE ORGANIAATION IN 1864
							To 1902.
						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							2
							William H. Smith
							June 1, 1864, to Dec. 5, 1865
						
						
							1
							George H. Fleming
							Dec. 5, 1865, to Dec. 26, 1866
						
						
							1
							August F. Coors
							Dec. 26, 1866, to Dec. 28, 1867
						
						
							1
							George F. Fleming
							Dec. 28, 1867, to Dec. 29, 1868
						
						
							*1
							Lewis A. Hoke
							Dec. 29, 1868, to March 2, 1869
						
						
							2
							George H. Fleming
							March 2, 1869, to March 7, 1871
						
						
							†l
							Mahlon D. Stacey
							March 7, 1871, to Aug. 1, 1871
						
						
							‡2
							Samuel C. Astley
							August 1, 1871, to Dec. 27, 1872
						
						
							3
							William H. Ireland
							Dec. 27, 1872, to Dec. 28, 1875
						
						
							3
							George W. Johnson
							Dec. 28, 1875, to Dec. 27, 1878
						
						
							4
							William H. Ireland
							Dec. 28, 1878, to Dec. 29, 1882
						
						
							2
							Abraham L. Stoner
							Dec. 29, 1882, to Dec. 30, 1884
						
						
							1
							Tom Oddy
							Dec. 30, 1884, to Dec. 29, 1885
						
						
							1
							Conrad C. Koerner
							Dec. 29, 1885, to Dec. 28, 1886
						
						
							6
							Marquis L. Johnston
							Dec. 28, 1886, to Dec. 28, 1892
						
						
							10
							Tom Oddy
							Dec. 28, 1892, to — , 1902
						
					
					*Served two months only, when
						George H. Fleming was elected to fill unexpired term.
					†Served five months, when
						Samuel C. Astley was elected to fill unexpired term.
					‡Served seventeen months,
						filling unexpired term of Mahlon D. Stacey, and then being re-elected for full term. 


					

					MEMBERS OF CAPITAL CITY LODGE JANUARY 1, 1902.
					
						Adams, Joseph R.
						Alexander, Walter H.
						Armstrong, Thomas L.
						Anschuetz, Edward
						Adams, William H.
						Allee, Charles O.
						Andrews, E. C.
						Brooks, Thomas C.
						Barlow, George T.
						Barnett, J. M.
						Bennett, Theodore
						Bernauer, Joseph, Jr.
						Black, J. S.
						Blodgett, Frederick
						Boynton, Charles S.
						Bramwood, J. W.
						Brown, Austin H.
						Buchanan, John A.
						Burgan, John C.
						Burtin, Louis F.
						Buscher, Ed. F.
						Buscher, William
						Brown, Jacob P.
						Caldwell, E. J.
						Caldwell, John P.
						Campbell, Robert
						Canfield, Woods P.
						Carlisle, John E.
						Christian, W. F.
						Clancy, Leslie D.
						Clapp, H. E.
						Cochrane, Robert S.
						Colip, E. H.
						Commons, William B.
						Conner, F. M.
						Cooper, Charles S.
						Craft, R. P.

						Culver, Raymond E.
						Canine, Hal B.
						Coffin, Alfred S.
						Coffin, Robert M.
						Darby, William
						Dashiel, Charles F.
						Daugherty, Charles
						Dawson, Byron
						Dennett, H. W.
						DeWarf, F. J. D.
						DeWitt, Carroll L.
						Diver, Francis
						Duval, Charles E.
						Davis, William E.
						Davis, William J.
						Dean, Robert G.
						Dillman, Edward P.
						Eastes, J. E.
						Edenharter, George F.
						Elliott, G. W.
						Engeldow, William
						Evans, Evan E.
						Ebert, Charles D.
						Engelke, John F.
						Fatout, H. B.
						Fatout, Walt P.
						Faulkner, Charles F.
						Flack, Joseph F.
						Foy, Joseph W.
						Friesdorff, Fred W.
						Fry, John S.
						Furgason, A. L.
						Furgason, C. C.
						Fox, William A.
						Fuller, Thomas J. B.
						Gall, Ed. F.
						Gaylor, J. Oren


						

						Garaghty, Joseph H.
						Gates, A. B., Jr.
						Geckler, John Frederick
						Golden, E. J.
						Gordon, William S.
						Graham, William M.
						Gale, Giles T.
						Habeney, H. F.
						Hankins, A. M.
						Hanna, Hugh H., Jr.
						Harvey, John W.
						Heard, C. R.
						Hearne, Harry S.
						Heath, Oliver
						Henderson, G. A.
						Habich, Gustave
						Hall, Charles D.
						Hampton, J. B.
						Hoefgen, Benjamin F.
						Hoover, Harry
						Hoffmann, George I.
						Holland, W. H.
						Humann, John H.
						Hunter, James T.
						Hunter, John E.
						Hutchinson, Byron
						Hagerman, Green
						Hooker, Frank R.
						Hudson, Charles L.
						Isgrigg, John G.
						Isgrigg, W. H., Sr.
						Isgrigg, W. H., Jr.
						Icon, Henry
						Jack, George B.
						Jenkins, Alfred
						Jessie, Edwin N.
						Johnson, James H.
						Johnson, Jacob
						Johnson, Marquis L.
						Jones, Hannibal F.
						Jones, W. W.
						Jordan, Robert H.
						Jones, Carl F.
						Keister, Newton H.
						Kile, S. C.
						Ladd, Barney D.
						Lemen, William E.
						Lemen, O. M.
						Lindemann, Frank
						Lindemann, Fred W.
						Linn, Thomas B.
						Linn, C. H.
						Lund, Perry
						McCreery, Charles B.
						McGregor, Christian
						McGregor, John W.
						McShane, J. T.
						Magley, Albert
						Many, Edward
						Matthews, E. E.
						May, Harry N.
						Messick, J. F.
						Middleton, A. J.
						Milam, William B.
						Miller, Hiram W.
						Milford, J. E.
						Minton, E. C.
						Mitchell, Isham
						Monahan, Hugh
						Moore, Thomas J.
						Morse, Thomas J.
						Moser, Jack C.
						Mann, Smith
						Murray, William H.
						Nackenhorst, William
						Nelson, James B.
						Nelson, T. H.
						Noland, Volney D.
						Nuirburg, Leonard
						Nutts, Albert B.
						Oddy, Tom
						Oehler, Herman
						Ohr, John H.
						Orndorff, J. H.
						Oswald, A. S.
						Pangborn, Noah P.



						

						Pangborn, W. A.
						Parrott, Horace
						Paver, Paul
						Pease, H. A.
						Pedersen, Gottfried
						Perkins, J. A.
						Place, William A.
						Pope, Henry T.
						Powderly, Thomas
						Prince, H. F. C.
						Prosser, Percy J.
						Raschig, Maurice H.
						Rassman, E. C.
						Rathert, William H.
						Rathfon, David M.
						Rauch, John
						Reece, E. E.
						Reinecke, J. F.
						Remy, Allison C.
						Resoner, Carl
						Riley, John W.
						Rinehart, M. L.
						Roberts, Benjamin
						Rogers, John P.
						Rothschild, L. G.
						Rouse, Ralph
						Rubin, Fred W.
						Ruef, William
						Ruschaupt, Charles F.
						Rodgers, Andrew J.
						Russell, Otto
						Sanders, C. J.
						Saulcy, Eugene
						Schmidt, George F.
						Schoppenhorst, Frank H.
						Schoppenhorst, William
						Schroer, E. E.
						Schwab, Frank M.
						Shover, James E.
						Slevin, J. F.
						Sherer, Frank Z.
						Shimeall, J. W.
						Shutt, S. C.
						Smallwood, Frank S.
						Smith, Albert
						Smith, E. A.
						Smith, John P.
						Smith, John W.
						Snyder, W. J.
						Spafford, Thomas E.
						Spencer, W. W.
						Stout, Thomas L.
						Schureman, Thomas A.
						Sheely, Calvin N.
						Smith, William P.
						Spencer, Arnold F.
						Teague, Andrew F.
						Thicksten, W. W.
						Thicksten, T. E.
						Thompson, Thomas
						Tipton, J. H.
						Tucker, George W.
						Ulen, Henry C., Jr.
						Van Arsdell, Marion
						Walker, Arthur L.
						Weir, William
						Wells, Andrew J.
						West, William B.
						Williams, Adney
						Williamson, James A.
						Wilson, James F.
						Winter, Carl G.
						Winterrowd, Thomas A.
						Wishmier, Harry T.
						Wise, Ralph M.
						Wonders, J. L.
						Wood, Henry J.
						Wood, Horace F.
						Wright, Ben C.
						Walmsley, David C.
						Wefler, Jacob E.
						Wishmier, Christopher
						Woessner, Henry F.
						Yount, Thomas J.
						Yount, F. H.
						Zimmerman, Joshua
						Honorary J. Bernauer, Sr.
					
					Total membership—248.

				
				
					

					ANCIENT LANDMARKS LODGE, NO. 319, FREE AND ACCEPTED
						MASONS.

					The dispensation for the organization of Ancient Landmarks Lodge was issued May 26th,
						1864, and named John Love as Worshipful Master, John W. Ray as Senior Warden, and Edmund
						Clark as Junior Warden. The other officers that served while the Lodge was under
						dispensation were: John J. Parsons, Secretary; J. H. Baldwin, Treasurer; James W. Hess,
						Senior Deacon; Luther R. Martin, Junior Deacon; Wheelock P. Bingham, Tyler. In addition
						to the officers the Charter members were: Stoughton Fletcher, Jr., Theodore P. Haughey,
						Barton D. Jones, John M. Lord, Addison L. Roach and Oliver B. Stout.
					The Lodge was organized and held its meetings in the Yohn block, on the northeast
						corner of Washington and Meridian streets, in apartments occupied jointly with the
						Scottish Rite, until the close of 1869, when it moved into the Aetna building, in the
						rooms of Center Lodge, where it continued for three years, moving into the Condit block,
						still as a lessee of Center Lodge, in January, 1873. In 1883 the south Lodge room, on
						the third floor of Masonic Temple, was leased, and in that the Lodge has since held its
						meetings.
					At its organization the dues were fixed at three dollars per year, but were increased
						to six dollars in 1866, at 
						
							JAMES W. HESS, Ex-Postmaster of Indianapolis. 
						
						
							JOHN A. HENRY, Ex-City Attorney of Indianapolis.
						
						
							GENERAL JOIN LOVE, First Worshipful Master.
						
						
							RICHARD M. SMOCK, Asst. Adjutant-General G. A. R.
						
						
							CYRUS J. DOBBS, Colonel U. S. Vols.
						
						
							PROMINENT CITIZENS WHO HAVE SERVED AS WORSHIPFUL MASTER OF
								ANCIENT LANDMARKS LODGE.
						
						
						 which they stood until 1884, when they were reduced to
						five dollars, and in 1886 again to three dollars. The fee for the degrees was fixed at
						thirty dollars, and has remained at that figure, with the exception of a few months,
						when there was an ineffectual effort made to have all the Lodges in the city raise the
						fee to fifty dollars.
					The first work done by the Lodge was on July 19th, 1864, when the first degree was
						conferred on Norman S. Byram and three other candidates, Winston P. Noble, Worshipful
						Master of Center Lodge, occupying the East in conferring the degree on Brother Byram.
						The first brother raised to the degree of Master Mason was James M. Whiteman, on
						September 23d, 1864. In the fall of 1864 the Lodge co-operated in the conducting of the
						Masonic department of the Sanitary Commission Fair held in Indianapolis, and at the same
						time a committee was appointed in regard to obtaining a suitable place in Crown Hill
						Cemetery for the interment of Masons, but this object was not attained until 1873, when
						the Masonic Burial Ground Association was organized.
					From the records it further appears that a joint meeting of all the city Lodges was
						held in Masonic Hall, October 1st, 1864, to consider the burial ground matter, and that
						a Lodge was formally opened.
					In December, 1864, the matter of organizing a Masonic Relief Board was again considered
						and a committee appointed to confer with the other city Lodges, which bore fruit three
						years later.
					An assessment of fifteen dollars per capita was made  on
						the membership in May, 1865, and one of five dollars in March, 1866, the first of which
						was, some years later, credited on the dues of those that paid it.
					The Lodge was constituted under charter by John M. Bramwell, as Deputy of the Grand
						Master, on June 10th, 1865, John Love being the Worshipful Master; James W. Hess, Senior
						Warden; Horatio L. Nelson, Junior Warden; J. H. Baldwin, Treasurer; Martin H. Halpine,
						Secretary; George S. Warren, Senior Deacon; George W. Purcell, Junior Deacon; Corey C.
						Reeves, Tyler.
					In September, 1865, seventy-five dollars was appropriated "to defray the expenses of
						Ancient Landmarks Lodge in the late Masonic celebration."
					The project of erecting a Masonic Temple and Opera House was indorsed in October, 1865,
						but it seems never to have advanced beyond indorsement. In the same month a committee
						was appointed to arrange for a "Union Lodge of Instruction," the meetings of which were,
						presumably, to be held in the projected building, as it does not seem to have assembled
						elsewhere. A union Masonic basket picnic was evidently held on St. John's day, June
						24th, 1868, as an appropriation was subsequently made to pay Ancient Landmarks'
						proportion of the expenses. The Lodge was apparently prosperous financially, as in the
						early seventies two investments of one thousand dollars each were made at ten per cent.
						interest. In 1871 two hundred dollars was appropriated for the relief of the sufferers
						from the Chicago fire, and on July 11th, 1872, the Lodge participated in the ceremonies
							 of laying the corner-stone of the Marion County Court
						House. The officers were publicly installed in 1874, and a banquet followed. In 1878 the
						retiring Worshipful Master, James Proctor, was presented with a silver water service. In
						response to a circular about this time from some Lodge in regard to the burdensome debt
						of the Grand Lodge, it was resolved "that Ancient Landmarks Lodge objects to any form of
						repudiation." A banquet and dance closed the year 1879, and John A. Henry, the retiring
						Worshipful Master, was presented with a bronze clock and vases.
					In 1880 the Lodge buried the remains of Colonel Nelson Trusler, late Secretary of
						State, at Connersville, and appointed a committee to attend the funeral of Major John E.
						Simpson, late Superintendent of the Vandalia Railroad and a member of the Lodge, which
						was held in St. Louis, Missouri.
					The first Worshipful Master, General John Love, was buried with Masonic honors in 1881.
						He was a prominent and well-known citizen and a leading Mason.
					In 1889 appropriations were made for the relief of sufferers from the Johnstown flood
						and of the suffering miners in Clay County, Indiana.
					In 1891 the Lodge joined the other city Lodges in a joint meeting given in Masonic
						Temple in honor of Most Worshipful Nicholas R. Ruckle, the only Grand Master from the
						organization to the present time who has ever been elected from an Indianapolis Lodge,
						with the exception of Most Worshipful Bruce Carr, who 
						belonged to a Lodge outside of the city when he was put in the line of promotion.
					In 1894 the Lodge purchased gowns for the use of its members and dress suits for its
						officers.
					In 1898 the use of a stereopticon was introduced in connection with the work, and in
						the years 1897 and 1898 Worshipful Master Homer A. Sampsell raised fifty-two candidates
						to the sublime degree of Master Mason.
					Among the distinguished brethren that are or have been connected with the Lodge may be
						mentioned, in addition to those already noted: General Daniel Macauley, many times Mayor
						of Indianapolis; General Robert S. Foster, ex-United States Marshal; General Nathan
						Kimball, ex-Treasurer of State; Colonel W. H. H. Terrell, ex-Adjutant General; Thomas B.
						McCarty, ex-Auditor of State; William Glenn, the founder of the New York Store; Judge
						Addison L. Roache, Governor Winfield T. Durbin, Colonel John W. Ray, Major William S.
						Rich, Captain John M. Lord, Captain Harry S. New, Rev. William F. Black, Rev. John K.
						Pye, Dr. N. G. Burnham, Dr. Charles D. Pearson, Dr. Edward F. Hodges, Dr. Samuel E.
						Earp, Dr. Homer A. Sampsell, Hon. William Wesley Woollen, Hon. Cass Byfield, etc.
					The present officers of Ancient Landmarks Lodge are:
					
						HOMER A. SAMPSELL, Worshipful Master.
						OTHO G. GEORGE, Senior Warden.
						FREDERICK C. KRAUSS, Junior Warden.
						PAUL H. KRAUSS, Treasurer.
						WILLIS R. MINER, Secretary.
						ALFRED G. NAVIN, Senior Deacon.
						ALLEN F. MAJORS, Junior Deacon.



						
						
							COL. WINFIELD T. DURBIN, Made a Master Mason in Ancient
								Landmarks Lodge, Nov. 15, 1870. Grand Commander of the Grand Commandery,
								1896. Present Governor of Indiana.
						


						
						


						EDWIN R. HISEY, Steward.
						GEORGE T. ASHLEY, Steward.
						ROBERT H. KELLer, Tyler.
					
					
						WORSHIPFUL MASTERS OF ANCIENT LANDMARKS LODGE FBOM THE
							ORGANIZATION In 1864 To 1902.
						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							2
							John Love
							May 26, 1864, to Dec., 1865
						
						
							1
							James W. Hess
							Dec., 1865, to Dec., 1866
						
						
							2
							George S. Warren
							Dec., 1866, to Dec., 1868
						
						
							1
							Julius C. Walk
							Dec., 1868, to Dec., 1869
						
						
							1
							James W. Hess
							Dec., 1869, to Dec., 1870
						
						
							1
							Joel O. Martin
							Dec., 1870, to Dec., 1871
						
						
							2
							Horatio L. Nelson
							Dec., 1871, to Dec., 1873
						
						
							1
							Richard M. Smock
							Dec., 1873, to Dec., 1874
						
						
							1
							William Scott
							Dec., 1874, to Dec., 1875
						
						
							1
							Robert L. Browning
							Dec., 1875, to Dec., 1876
						
						
							1
							James Proctor
							Dec., 1876, to Dec., 1877
						
						
							1
							John A. Henry
							Dec., 1877, to Dec., 1878
						
						
							1
							Julius C. Walk
							Dec., 1878, to Dec., 1879
						
						
							2
							Cyrus J. Dobbs
							Dec., 1879, to Dec., 1881
						
						
							2
							William S. Rich
							Dec., 1881, to Dec., 1883
						
						
							1
							Hugh O'Neal McVey
							Dec., 1883, to Dec., 1884
						
						
							1
							William H. Meier
							Dec., 1884, to Dec., 1885
						
						
							1
							Charles A. McConnell
							Dec., 1885, to Dec., 1886
						
						
							1
							Willis R. Miner
							Dec., 1886, to Dec., 1887
						
						
							4
							William S. Rich
							Dec., 1887, to Dec., 1891
						
						
							1
							Thomas C. Ruttledge
							Dec., 1891, to Dec., 1892
						
						
							1
							William H. Meier
							Dec., 1892, to Dec., 1893
						
						
							2
							Alex. W. Thomson
							Dec., 1893, to Dec., 1895
						
						
							3
							Homer A. Sampsell
							Dec., 1895, to Dec., 1898
						
						
							1
							William C. Garrison
							Dec., 1898, to Dec., 1899
						
						
							1
							John E. Milnor
							Dec., 1899, to Dec., 1900
						
						
							1
							Charles F. Craig
							Dec., 1900, to Dec., 1901
						
						
							1
							Homer A. Sampsell
							Dec., 1901, to —, 1902
						
					

					
						SECRETARIES OF ANCIENT LANDMARKS LODGE FROM THE ORGANIZATION IN
							1864 TO 1902.
						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							1
							John J. Parsons
							May 26, 1864, to June 10, 1865
						
						
							1
							Martin H. Halpine
							June 10, 1865, to Dec., 1865
						
						
							1
							George W. Purcell
							Dec., 1865, to Dec., 1866
						



						

						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							5
							Ephraim Hartwell
							Dec., 1866, to Dec., 1871
						
						
							1
							Richard M. Smock
							Dec., 1871, to Dec., 1872
						
						
							1
							George T. Moore
							Dec., 1872, to Dec., 1873
						
						
							1
							Horatio L. Nelson
							Dec., 1873, to Dec., 1874
						
						
							3
							George T. Moore
							Dec., 1874, to Dec., 1877
						
						
							5
							Joseph R. Perry
							Dec., 1877 to Dec., 1882
						
						
							3
							Willis R. Miner
							Dec., 1882, to Dec., 1885
						
						
							1
							Fred M. Loomis
							Dec., 1885, to Dec., 1886
						
						
							3
							Willis R. Miner
							Dec., 1886, to Dec., 1889
						
						
							2
							Charles Lilly
							Dec., 1889, to Dec., 1891
						
						
							11
							Willis R. Miner
							Dec., 1891, to —. 1902
						
					


					MEMBERS OF ANCIENT LANDMARKS LODGE JANUARY 1, 1902.
					
						Ahlers, Herman H.
						Albershardt, John F.
						Allen, Frank M.
						Armstrong, Seigle M.
						Alexander, James C.
						Allen, Oliver M.
						Albright, Ernest C.
						Almond, Enos A.
						Ashley, George T.
						Auch, Andrew
						Austin, Elmer E.
						Balke, Charles R.
						Banworth, Benjamin
						Barry, William B.
						Bauer, George
						Berner, Fred, Jr.
						Belcher, Thomas W.
						Bennett, Allen E.
						Billings, Fred M.
						Billings, George M.
						Bohmie, John M.
						Bottorff, John L.
						Boyd, Bert A.
						Branham, George Ed.
						Branson, William H.
						Brigham, A. C.
						Brown, Henry L.
						Brown, Lewis
						Brush, George E.
						Bryant, John W.
						Burke, W. H.
						Burnham, Gilbert L.
						Burroughs, George H.
						Byers, David A.
						Byram, Norman S.
						Caldwell, Arthur B.
						Caldwell, Charles C.
						Campbell, John G.
						Cary, William H.
						Clarke, Edward J.
						Clifford, William L.
						Cochran, William A.
						Cook, David L.
						Collins, J. E.
						Coney, Edward T.
						Cooper, William H.
						Cooper, William R.
						Cox, William A.
						Craig, Charles F.
						Craig, Henry J.
						Craig, H. T.
						Craig, William B.
						Crawford, Ed. M.
						Cummings, Albert L.
						Cummings, Hugh A.
						Darrach, Charles S.

						

						Daniels, Arthur H.
						Davis, William C.
						Dell, Frank M.
						Devine, Edward P.
						Dickson, Fred C.
						Divine, E. C.
						Dickson, George A.
						Dixon, Augustus IL.
						Donaldson, John W.
						Douglass, Frank J.
						Douglass, Samuel L.
						Downey, W. B.
						Dockweller, H. G.
						Doolittle, Edwin F., Sr.
						Downey, Brandt C.
						Dutton, Robert L.
						Earp, Samuel E.
						Edmonston, Charles T.
						Elliott, William F.
						Ellison, John W.
						Emmelmann, Charles P.
						Erwin, Daniel P.
						Ewan, A. O.
						Falk, Frederick
						Farley, Thomas
						Fatout, Arthur
						Fenton, Harry A.
						Fertig, Emil
						Fitzgerald, Frank
						Fletcher, Jesse
						Flanner, Frank W.
						Forsyth, William G.
						Foster, Robert S.
						Francis, J. Richard
						Frenzel, Oscar F.
						Fuhrmann, William A.
						Fulwell, George
						Furgason, Charles H.
						Garrison, William C.
						Gates, Fred E.
						Gavin, Frank E.
						Gavin, James L.
						Gentle, James M.
						Glickert, John E.
						Goth, John L.
						Gardiner, John T.
						Gehring, George A.
						George, O. G.
						Goode, Joseph S.
						Gough, Alfred B.
						Graham, Alois B.
						Gray, John H.
						Griffith, S. C.
						Groninger, Taylor E.
						Gross, G. Frank
						Hall, Clinton E.
						Hall, Martin B.
						Hampton, William W.
						Hampton, Albert S.
						Harris, Charles E.
						Harris, J. E.
						Harvey, William L.
						Harvey, Sampson D.
						Hay, Thomas
						Henning, Albert W.
						Higgins, William L.
						Hill, Edward
						Hilkene, Jacob
						Hinson, W. C.
						Hisey, Edwin R.
						Hodges, Edward F.
						Hodges, Stoughton F.
						Hohl, Carl F.
						Holiday, J. Duncan
						Holmes, Albert K.
						Holt, Sterling R.
						Holt, William A.
						Horning, Frank
						Hornefius, Benjamin F.
						Hunt, William H.
						Hunter, Harry
						Hurst, Lawrence T.
						Iliff, Louis S.
						Johnson, Alma H.
						Jackson, Dudley H.
						Jackson, Samuel M.
						Jameson, Statham
						Jelliff, Charles E.
						Judd, Thomas
						Kauble, Jacob J.

						

						Kepner, Charles A.
						Ketcham, Frederick G.
						Keyser, George W.
						Keller, H.
						Keller, R. H.
						Keller, Frank H.
						Keller, Robert
						Keller, August K.
						Kercheval, Samuel E.
						Keevers, Gus W.
						King, John H.
						Kiger, Samuel D.
						Koehne, Armin C.
						Kotteman, Charles
						Krauss, Paul H.
						Krauss, Paul H., Jr.
						Krauss, Charles
						Krauss, Fred C.
						Kuhler, Charles
						Langdon, Lewis A.
						Laycock, Joseph
						Lee, Charles N.
						Lemon, Daniel A.
						Lilly, Charles
						Long, John B.
						Loomis, Fred M.
						Losey, Charles E.
						Love, Arthur E.
						Love, William John
						Love, William John, Jr.
						Lowe, Richard H.
						McCleary, H. T.
						McCready, Frank T.
						McConnell, C. A.
						McCreary, J. E.
						McCutcheon, John C.
						McDonald, Joseph H.
						McVey, Hugh O'Neal
						Maag, Henry
						Maguire, Albert M.
						Maguire, Charles
						Maguire, William G.
						Mahurin, M. B.
						Majors, Allen F.
						Malone, Louis A.
						Martin, Henry D.
						Matsumato, Ikko
						Mather, William J.
						Maxwell, Marvin R.
						Maxwell, William E.
						Mayhew, James N.
						Means, Anderson W.
						Meck, S. Morris
						Meidner, Edward B.
						Meier, William H.
						Metcalf, George W.
						Meyer, Adolph J.
						Mills, George E.
						Miller, Ozias S.
						Miller, Edgar Staley
						Miller, Frank E.
						Miller, John E.
						Miner, Willis R.
						Mitchell, Joseph A.
						Mix, Lyman W.
						Moore, Alfred H.
						Moore, W. Scott
						Moore, Harvey A.
						Moore, Edwin F.
						Morse, Robert P.
						Mueller, Ferdinand A.
						Mueller, Gustav H.
						Navin, Alfred G.
						Navin, Arthur J.
						New, Harry S.
						Noel, Edmund B.
						Oakes, Charles W.
						Oakes, Warren D.
						Odgers, William J.
						Off, William F.
						Off, Albert H.
						Overly, Elmer E.
						Parry, Edward R.
						Parry, Thomas H.
						Parry, St. Clair
						Pearson, Charles D.
						Pearson, George C.
						Pepper, Edmond M.
						Pierce, Oliver W.
						Porter, Malcolm G.


						

						Porter, Otis A.
						Potts, Arthur M.
						Powell, John B.
						Prather, Wesley A.
						Proctor, James
						Ransford, W. P.
						Ray, John W.
						Reible, Frederick
						Read, Peter C.
						Rich, William S.
						Riley, William J.
						Robb, Joseph W.
						Roberts, William C.
						Robbins, J. M.
						Robinson, William B.
						Robinson, Hayden
						Rockwood, Charles B.
						Ross, Fred Tron
						Rowe, Harry F.
						Rossiter, Waldo R.
						Rutledge, Thomas C.
						Sampsell, H. A.
						Sayles, Charles F.
						Schellsmidt, Alvin
						Schmidt, August
						Schmidt, William H.
						Schneider, Karl
						Scott, Robert F.
						Scholz, Fred J.
						Schad, George E.
						Shimer, Thomas N.
						Scott, Walter P.
						Scott, William
						Seguin, Edward R. S.
						Shoemaker, John C.
						Short, W. N.
						Shultz, Jay O.
						Simmonds, Oliver M.
						Singleton, Artel F.
						Slagle, Cecil B.
						Smith, Albert
						Smock, Richard M.
						Sourbier, Edward G.
						Stafford, Charles A.
						Stewart, James T.
						Strong, George W.
						Stucky, Edward W.
						Sumner, William J.
						Swain, David F.
						Swaim, Frank
						Swain, George H.
						Swick, Charles S.
						Swiggett, Bert
						Tarkington, W. S. R.
						Thomson, A: W.
						Thompson, E. P.
						Tomlin, William S.
						Townsend, Elmer E.
						Treat, Atwater J.
						Trusler, Preston C.
						Tulley, E. M.
						Tuttle, Herman C.
						Van Nostran, Edgar M.
						Von Ostermann, George F.
						VanTilburgh, John B.
						Volz, Frank G.
						Wald, Oliver R.
						Walk, Julius C.
						Walk, Carl F.
						Walcott, Frank E.
						Waltrip, Norman
						Warren, George S.
						Weber, George M.
						Weber, William C.
						Wheat, James C.
						Wilbert, Ferdinand P.
						Williams, C. P.
						Williams, Oliver W.
						Wimsett, Ira G.
						Witlinger, George L.
						Woods, Ford
						Wood, Jacob S.
						Woodward, Charles A.
						Wright, Charles E.
						Wright, Wm. McVey
						Wright, J. Kirk
						Wright, Peter M.
						Wright, Henry B.
						Zimmer, Harry.
					
					Total membership—329.
				


				
					

					MYSTIC TIE LODGE, NO. 398,FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS.


					The preliminary meeting looking to the formation of this Lodge was held in the hall of
						Center Lodge, No. 23, in the Aetna building, on Saturday evening, September 26th, 1868.
						John Caven was elected chairman and William S. Cone Secretary, and a petition signed by
						twenty brethren was drawn up, but subsequently three of these names were withdrawn. The
						remaining names, including those who became charter members, were: John Caven, George B.
						Engle, Jr., Joseph W. Smith, John Reynolds, William S. Cone, Erastus J. Hardesty, Azel
						B. Howard, Charles E. Brigham, Austin B. Prather, Gilbert W. Davis, Charles W. Hewes,
						Jr., Edwin S. Folsom, Melvin Strong, Eben Smith, Henry C. Adams, Heyden S. Bigham and
						George W. Sloan. Of these Brothers Caven, Hardesty, Brigham, Prather, Davis, Folsom,
						Adams and Sloan (8) are still members of the Lodge, while Brothers Reynolds, Strong,
						Bigham, Joseph W. Smith and Eben Smith (5) remained members until their deaths.
					The dispensation for the Lodge, with John Caven Worshipful Master, George B. Engle,
						Jr., Senior Warden, 
						
							JOHN (AVEN, Ex-Mayor of Indianapolis.
						
						
							HENRY T. CONDE, Major 158th Indiana Vols.
						
						
							JOHN L. McMASTER, Judge Superior Court.
						
						
							JOSEPH W. SMITH, Late Secretary Scottish Rite.
						
						
							JACOB W. SMITH, Secretary Board of Trade.
						
						
							PROMINENT CITIZENS WHO HAVE SERVED AS WORSHIPFUL MASTER OF MYSTIC TIE
								LODGE.
						
						
						 and Joseph W. Smith Junior Warden, was issued by Most
						Worshipful Martin H. Rice, Grand Master, on November 17th, 1868, and the Lodge began
						work thereunder on November 24th following, in the hall of Center Lodge, on which
						occasion Worshipful Master Caven delivered an address on the origin of the Saints Johns'
						days. The first work was the initiating of William H. Craft, on January 5th, 1869, and
						the first raising was that of Melvin Jillson, on March 30th following. On February 23d
						an emergency was declared to exist in the case of W. Albert Wheeler, and in consequence
						he received the degrees sooner than he otherwise could have done. This is the only
						instance in the history of the Lodge that an emergency has been declared.
					On March 3oth, 1869, the Lodge moved to permanent quarters in the old Masonic Temple
						(where it continued until April 11th, 1873). The first rejection was in May, 1869, since
						which time to May, 1900oo, over sixty petitions have been rejected.
					On May 28th, 1869, the Lodge was instituted under Charter dated May 25th, by Right
						Worshipful William Thomas Clark, Deputy Grand Master, on which occasion remarks were
						made by Brothers F. M. Blair, Past Grand Master of Illinois, and Rev. George B. Engle, a
						Past Master, and a banquet was spread.
					The first work under the Charter was the raising of Rev. Willis D. Engle, on June 14th,
						to the sublime Degree of Master Mason.
					The greatest comity seems to have existed between  Mystic
						Tie and the other Indianapolis Lodges, more particularly Center and Marion, and on June
						28th thanks were returned to them for many courtesies extended.
					In an address delivered by Brother Willis D. Engle, at the celebration of the fourth
						anniversary, the origin of the Lodge was thus spoken of:
					"We owe our origin as a Lodge to a few young and progressive men who, becoming weary of
						the prosaic ways of rendering the work in their respective Lodges, and despairing of
						making a change by isolated efforts, discouraged as they were by many of the older
						brethren, thought by combining a unity of action with their unity of purpose, to make
						more manifest the benefits of our Institution by more earnest if not better work. This
						was no easy task, and much credit is due to the energy and perseverance of our Charter
						members."
					On April 11th, 1873, the Lodge moved into the hall of Center Lodge, in the Condit
						block, on South Meridian street, where it continued until April 12th, 1876, when
						quarters were temporarily occupied in the Aetna building, on North Pennsylvania street,
						until May 22d, 1876, when the present apartments in Masonic Temple were secured. The
						Lodge united with the Masonic Relief Board at its organization in 1869, and in 1873 it
						united with the other city Lodges in the purchase of a burial lot in Crown Hill
						Cemetery.
					At the celebration of the sixth anniversary, November 24th, 1874, Worshipful Master
						Joseph W. Smith delivered an address. During the evening twelve brethren,  each bearing a part of a silver service, filed in from the
						ante-room, and, taking position in line on the west side of the altar, Brother Willis D.
						Engle, as spokesman, delivered the following bright and appropriate address:
					"Worshipful Master—We twelve who appear before you bear in our hands certain
						metallic substances which we desire to present to you in token of our appreciation of
						your qualities as a man and a Mason. We twelve, with many others, seeing your second
						year as Master of Mystic Tie Lodge about to be completed, and being exceedingly desirous
						of in some way signifying our appreciation of the faithful services you have rendered
						our Lodge and the Masonic Fraternity generally, entered into a combination to put into
						some substantial form the expression of regard for and good will toward you. We know
						that it has always been your pleasure to hear and yield to the requests of a worthy
						brother in distress, and that the cry of the widow and the orphan have not fallen on
						unsympathetic ears, and while we do not claim that you have done more than your Masonic
						duty in ministering to the wants of the needy and unfortunate, yet we consider that much
						more has been laid upon you than falls to the lot of the majority of the Royal
						Craft.
					"I might speak more in detail of the arduous duties which fall to the lot of an
						efficient Master, which it is evidenced you have faithfully discharged by the continued
						growth and prosperity of Mystic Tie Lodge, which is the Masonic mother of most of the
						brethren who will draw  around our festal board on this
						anniversary night, and it can be our only desire for her that she may be blessed in the
						future, as she has been in the past, with faithful and earnest Masters. * * * Having in
						your youth occupied your mind in the attainment of useful knowledge, and in manhood
						having applied that knowledge to the discharge of your respective duties to God, your
						neighbor and yourself, in the decline of life may you be surrounded by your children and
						children's children and remember with unalloyed pleasure your years of official
						connection with us, and feel that in each of us you have a friend. Having thus fulfilled
						your duties, you can in age enjoy the happy reflections consequent upon a well-spent
						life, with confidence in that glorious immortality beyond the grave, which we are taught
						to look forward to in our beautiful ritual."
					Worshipful Masters Willis D. Engle, Jacob W. Smith and Russell Elliott were also
						recipients of valuable tokens of regard on retiring from the Oriental chair.
					The fee originally charged for the degrees was thirty dollars, but it was raised to
						fifty dollars in 1881 and reduced to forty dollars June 9th, 1890. The dues, originally
						six dollars per annum, were reduced to five dollars in 1878 and to four dollars in
						1887.
					The Lodge has always responded liberally to requests for aid from its own members and
						in times of calamity by flood and fire to brethren elsewhere. The aggregate of its
						receipts and expenditures to November 1st, 1901, was:


					

					
						
							Receipts for fees
							$15,710 01
							
						
						
							Receipts for dues
							27,209 23
							
						
						
							Receipts for interest
							4,483 91
							
						
						
							Receipts for other sources
							1,246 68
							
						
						
							
							
							$48,649 83
						
						
							Disbursed for charity
							$10,574 23
							
						
						
							Disbursed for Grand Lodge dues
							3,850 10
							
						
						
							Disbursed for other expenses
							25,258 18
							
						
						
							
							
							39,682 51
						
						
							Balance on hand and invested
							
							$8,967 32
						
					
					
						Its work to November 1st, 1901, was:
						
							Meetings held
							1,300
							
						
						
							Charter members
							17
							
						
						
							Raised
							423
							
						
						
							Affiliated
							284
							
						
						
							Reinstated
							13
							
						
						
							
							
							737
						
						
							Dimitted
							158
							
						
						
							Died
							78
							
						
						
							Suspended
							76
							
						
						
							Expelled
							25
							
						
						
							
							
							337
						
						
							Membership
							
							400
						
					

					Among the members of Mystic Tie Lodge no name stands forth more prominently than that
						of its first Worshipful Master, John Caven, who occupied the East for the first four
						years of its existence. Brother Caven's name is inseparably connected with that of the
						city of Indianapolis, which he served as Mayor for a number of terms, and he has been
						identified with her history in many ways. He served the Grand Lodge as Grand Trustee for
						many years and is one of the three active members of the Supreme Council, 33d degree of
						the Scottish Rite for Indiana.
					Joseph W. Smith, the second Worshipful Master,  devoted
						much time to Freemasonry, and was long identified prominently with the Scottish Rite,
						and served as the Grand Secretary of that body from the decease of Cortez F. Holliday
						(who was also a member of Mystic Tie) until his own recent death, November 30th, 1901.
						He succeeded the late Nicholas R. Ruckle in the highest office known to the thirty-third
						degree in the State—that of Deputy for the District of Indiana.

					The third and seventh Worshipful Master, Rev. Willis D. Engle, has served as Secretary
						of the Lodge for twenty-two years continuously, and also for as many years as Secretary
						of the Masonic Relief Board and of the Masonic Burial Ground Association.
					No one is more widely and favorably known among the craft of the capital city than
						Jacob W. Smith, at present Secretary of the Board of Trade, who served as Worshipful
						Master three years. He is also prominently identified with various branches of the York
						and Scottish Rite, has served as Grand High Priest of the Grand Chapter Royal Arch
						Masons and Commander-in-Chief of Indiana Consistory, Scottish Rite, and occupied leading
						positions on several important committees of the Grand Lodge of Indiana.
					The fifth Worshipful Master, Russell Elliott, was at the time of service a leading
						railroad man, and later became identified with prominent commercial interests in Kansas
						City, retaining his membership in Mystic Tie Lodge, however, until his death, April 8th,
						1901.


					

					William Gray, the sixth Worshipful Master, is a well-known physician of Indianapolis of
						many years' practice.
					The eighth Worshipful Master, Erastus J. Hardesty, was a Charter member and its first
						Senior Deacon, and is still actively identified with the Lodge.
					Robert Gordon, the tenth Worshipful Master, became a member by affiliation, and, with
						the exception of Judge John L. McMaster, is the only Master thus joining who has
						occupied the East. He, as well as his successor, Charles B. Wanamaker, still retains a
						most earnest and active connection with the Lodge.
					Chester Bradford, who served as thirteenth Worshipful Master, is a prominent patent
						attorney.
					Ferdinand Christman, the fourteenth Worshipful Master, was a member of an old
						Indianapolis family. He is now a resident of the State of Washington.
					John L. McMaster, the fifteenth Worshipful Master, has served as Mayor of the city of
						Indianapolis and is now one of the most honored and respected Judges of the Superior
						Court.
					William A. McAdams, the sixteenth Worshipful Master, and Charles P. Lesh, the
						seventeenth, are well-known Masons and are actively identified with the business
						interests of Indianapolis.
					Wilbur F. Browder, the eighteenth Worshipful Master, is a leading attorney of the
						Indianapolis bar, and one of the city's most active Masons.
					Lewis E. Morrison, the nineteenth, is one of the city's best known business men and
						most zealous Masons.



					

					Henry T. Conde, the twentieth, was Major of the One Hundred and Fifty-eighth Indiana
						Volunteers during the Spanish-American war, and is a business man of high character and
						standing.
					And last, but not least, Finley B. Pugh, Solon E. Lee and Charles P. Benedict, the
						twenty-first, twenty-second and twenty-third Masters, are devoted and earnest Masons,
						ever active and zealous in the interest of all that affects the welfare and progress of
						Masonry.
					No one has served the Lodge longer or more faithfully than Treasurer George W. Sloan,
						who at the end of the nineteenth century has served the Lodge nearly a quarter of that
						century (twenty-four terms) as the custodian of its funds. A Charter member of the
						Lodge, his continual connection with the business interests of Indianapolis is probably
						longer than that of any other. He is at present President of the Indianapolis School
						Board and has also served as President of the Board of Trade.
					Among the attorneys identified with the Lodge may be mentioned Judge James M. Winters,
						Judge Stanton J. Peelle, Judge John L. McMaster, John R. Wilson, James B. Curtis, Roscoe
						O. Hawkins, Bronte M. Aikins, Charles P. Benedict, James P. Baker, William Bosson, James
						R. Carnahan, John T. Carson, Albert B. Cole, Virgil H. Lockwood, William H. Ogborn,
						William D. Bynum, William A. Pickens, Jesse C. Moore, George F. Mull, Horace E. Smith
						and Merle N. A. Walker.
					The physicians of the city are represented by Levi L. Todd, Henry Jameson, Franklin W.
						Hays, Horace R. 
						
							REV. IRA B. CHASE, Master Mason of Mystic Tie Lodge.
								Governor of Indiana. 
						
						
						 Allen, Douglass A. Leathers, Charles L. Wilson, W. V.
						Morgan, Frederick R. Charlton, H. M. Lash, George W. Combs, Frank C. Ferguson, Joseph A.
						Eastman, and Thomas B. Eastman.
					Among the clergy at present or in the past members of the Lodge may be mentioned Bishop
						David Buel Knickerbacker, Edward A. Bradley, Joshua K. Speer, Gustav A. Carstensen, J.
						Albert Rondthaler, Horatio S. Hilton, David J. Ellison, Willis D. Engle, George B. Engle
						and John Hogarth Lozier.
					Bruce Carr, at one time Grand Master (and Auditor of State), was a member of the Lodge
						at the time of his death, as was also Ira J. Chase, ex-Governor of Indiana. Among those
						well known in public life, who are now on the rolls, are Albert Gall, late Treasurer of
						State; Thomas J. Charlton, late Superintendent of the State Reform School for Boys;
						Jesse Overstreet, Representative in Congress; Thomas Taggart, ex-Mayor of Indianapolis;
						Eudorus M. Johnson, ex-City Comptroller; Joseph T. Fanning, ex-President of the Board of
						Public Works; Richard O. Johnson, Superintendent of the State Institute for the Deaf and
						Dumb; Archibald A. Young, Collector of Customs; Cyrus J. Clark, ex-County Sheriff; Harry
						B. Smith, County Auditor; William B. Burford, State Printer; Horace E. Kinney,
						ex-President of the Board of Trade; Irvin Robbins, ex-Adjutant General; Joseph L.
						Hunter, ex-County Commissioner; Hunter Bradford, Publisher Masonic Directory; etc.


					
					Mystic Tie Lodge is now not only the largest Lodge in Indianapolis, but it is also the
						largest in the entire State of Indiana.
					The present officers of Mystic Tie Lodge are:
					
						LOGAN G. SCHOLL, Worshipful Master.
						JAMES W. LILLY, Senior Warden.
						ANSEL FATOUT, Junior Warden.
						GEORGE W. SLOAN, Treasurer.
						WILLIS D. ENGLE, Secretary.
						FRANK W. WOOD, Senior Deacon.
						EDWARD B. RAUB, Junior Deacon.
						CHARLES S. BARKER, Steward.
						FRED E. SCHAD, Steward.
						CHARLES DEBURGER, Tyler.
					
					
						WORSHIPFUL MASTERS OF MYSTIC TIE LODGE FROM THE ORGANIZATION IN
							1868 TO 1902.
						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							*5
							John Caven
							Nov. 24, 1868, to Dec., 1872
						
						
							2
							Joseph W. Smith
							Dec., 1872, to Dec., 1874
						
						
							1
							Willis D. Engle
							Dec., 1874, to Dec., 1875
						
						
							1
							Jacob W. Smith
							Dec., 1875, to Dec., 1876
						
						
							1
							Russell Elliott
							Dec., 1876, to Dec., 1877
						
						
							1
							William Gray
							Dec., 1877, to Dec., 1878
						
						
							1
							Willis D. Engle
							Dec., 1878, to Dec., 1879
						
						
							1
							Erastus J. Hardesty
							Dec., 1879, to Dec., 1880
						
						
							2
							Jacob W. Smith
							Dec., 1880, to Dec., 1882
						
						
							1
							Robert Gordon
							Dec., 1882, to Dec., 1883
						
						
							1
							Charles B. Wanamaker
							Dec., 1883, to Dec., 1884
						
						
							2
							Jacob W. Smith
							Dec., 1884, to Dec., 1886
						
						
							1
							Chester Bradford
							Dec., 1886, to Dec., 1887
						
						
							1
							Ferdinand Christman
							Dec., 1887, to Dec., 1888
						
						
							2
							John L. McMaster
							Dec., 1888, to Dec., 1890
						
						
							1
							William A. McAdams
							Dec., 1890, to Dec., 1891
						
						
							2
							Charles P. Lesh
							Dec., 1891, to Dec., 1893
						
						
							1
							Wilbur F. Browder
							Dec., 1893, to Dec., 1894
						
						
							3
							Lewis E. Morrison
							Dec., 1894, to Dec., 1897
						
						
							1
							Henry T. Conde
							Dec., 1897, to Dec., 1898
						
						
							1
							Finley B. Pugh
							Dec., 1898, to Dec., 1899
						
						
							1
							Solon E. Lee
							Dec., 1899, to Dec., 1900
						
						
							1
							Charles P. Benedict
							Dec., 1900, to Dec., 1901
						
						
							1
							Logan C. Scholl
							Dec., 1901, to —, 1902
						
					
					*Date of annual election
						changed from June to December in 1869, thereby reducing to six months the terms of the
						officers previously elected in June.


					

					
						SECRETARIES OF MYSTIC TIE LODGE FROM THE ORGANIZATION IN 1868
							TO 1902.
						
							Number Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						

						
							*9
							William S. Cone
							Nov. 24, 1868, to June, 1876
						
						
							†2
							Willis D. Engle
							June, 1876, to April, 1878
						
						
							‡2
							Jacob W. Smith
							April, 1878, to Dec., 1880
						
						
							22
							Willis D. Engle
							Dec., 1880, to —, 1902
						
					
					*Date of annual election
						changed from June to December in 1869, thereby reducing to six months the terms of the
						officers previously elected in June.
					†Elected to fill vacancy
						caused by resignation of William S. Cone, June, 1876.
					‡Elected to fill vacancy
						caused by resignation of Willis D. Engle, April, 1878.
					MEMBERS OF MYSTIC TIE LODGE JANUARY 1, 1902. 
					
						Adam, Charles H.
						Adams, Bert B.
						Adams, Henry C.
						Adams, Henry C., Jr.
						Adams, Robert
						Aikins, Bronte M.
						Alexander, Robert P.
						Amos, Thomas B.
						Anderson, Eli W.
						Archer, Alexander M.
						Armstrong, D. K.
						Armstrong, Edwin J.
						Austin, Charles S.
						Baker, James P.
						Ballinger, Carl C.
						Balz, Fred G.
						Balz, John F.
						Barker, Charles S.
						Barnitt, James L.
						Bartholomew, W. I.
						Bassett, Edward W.
						aett, Walter B.
						Bates, Hervey, Jr.
						Bauer, Harry C.
						Beissenherz, Henry D.
						Benedict, Charles P.
						Benedict, John L.
						Benson, William W.
						Bernloehr, Chris
						Berry, E. E.
						Blenis, C. R.
						Blue, Albert
						Blue, Cortez D.
						Blue, George T.
						Bockhoff, William F.
						Bosson, William
						Bradford, Hunter
						Bradshaw, W. S.
						Brigham, Charles E.
						Browder, W. F.
						Bronson, Henry M.
						Brown, Chalmers
						Brown, Harold G.
						Brown, Marcus L.




						

						Brown, Richard H.
						Brown, William H.
						Burdsal, Alfred
						Burford, Ernst A.
						Burford, William B.
						Butler, Mahlon D.
						Byrkit, John W.
						Camden, Matthew H.
						Cameron, Carl
						Campbell, Eddy M.
						Carnahan, James R.
						Carpenter, J. B.
						Carter, Frank H.
						Carter, W. W.
						Carson, John F.
						Case, Robson M.
						Caven, John
						Chambers, Perlee L.
						Chandler, Henry C.
						Charlton, Fred R.
						Clark, Chauncey H.
						Clark, Cyrus J.
						Clemens, Theo.
						Coats, Harry A.
						Cole, Albert B.
						Cole, Frank M.
						Combs, George W.
						Compton, Charles S.
						Compton, Samuel M.
						Comstock, Frederick B.
						Conde, Henry T.
						Conde, Sandford C.
						Conlee, Thomas A.
						Constantine, Ruthford C.
						Cook, Thomas Vick
						Cook, Homer
						Cross, Charles M.
						Crossland, Harry A.
						Crosley, Marion
						Cullum, Eberle
						Cumback, William, Jr.
						Curtice, Charles C.
						Daily, William A.
						Daily, Sidney F.
						Daly, Charles F.
						Dark, Charles E.
						Daugherty, John H.
						Davis, Gilbert W.
						DeBurger, Charles
						DeFrees, Morris M.
						DeFrees, Thomas M.
						DeHaas, Thomas W.
						DeVay, W. P.
						Derby, D. W.
						Dickie, Frank E.
						Dittemore, John V.
						Dittemore, John W.
						Dobyns, William J.
						Dodd, Harry P.
						Donnan, Theodore
						Duncan, James S.
						Dunnington, H. D.
						Drinkut, W. F.
						Eads, Robert I.
						Eastman, Joseph
						Eastman, Thomas B.
						Eastman, J. Rilus
						Ela, William C.
						Elliott, Charles N.
						Elmer, Harry H.
						Elsasser, William C.
						Engle, Willis D.
						Engle, Theodore Wm.
						Fanning, Joseph T.
						Farrell, Charles L.
						Farrell, James S.
						Fatout, Ansel
						Fenter, George T.
						Fish, James L.
						Fisher, George C.
						Foust, Charles J.
						Fletcher, Samuel H.
						Folsom, Edwin S.
						Foor, William
						Ford, Charles B.
						Fulmer, Edward P.



						

						Furguson, Frank C.
						Furnas, Robert W.
						Gall, Albert
						Gall, Peter J.
						Garrard, Charles A.
						Garber, .William S.
						Gardner, Anderson S.
						Gates, Frank L.
						Gausepohl, E. J.
						Gisler, Gotleib
						Gladding, N. A.
						Goodall, Walter J.
						Goodloe, T. M.
						Gordon, Robert
						Granus, E. W.
						Graves, E. M.
						Gray, Stephen
						Gray, William
						Gray, William H.
						Greiner, Louis A.
						Hall, E. H.
						Hall, Charles E.
						Halstead, Charles M.
						Hanch, C. C.
						Hanford, Charles L.
						Harps, Eran J.
						Hardesty, E. J.
						Hart, John P.
						Haueisen, William C.
						Hawkins, Roscoe O.
						Haynes, Horace F.
						Hays, Franklin W.
						Henderson, Oscar B.
						Herriott, William M.
						Hilligoss, Sullivan M.
						Hillman, Samuel J.
						Hinchman, Carl E.
						Hinds, P. Atwood
						Hewitt, H. B.
						Hoadley, George A.
						Hockett, John E.
						Holland, Charles A.
						Holliday, Francis T.
						Holliday, Jacquelin S.
						Hovey, Oliver H.
						Huffman, Simeon
						Hull, Charles H.
						Hunt, George Edward
						Hunter, Edgar O.
						Hunter, Joseph L.
						Ilitf, Charles E.
						Irwin, Clarence E.
						Jacobs, Hiram B.
						Jacob, Theodore P.
						Jameson, Henry
						Janes, Frank E.
						Jenney, Charles D.
						Johnson, Alfred H.
						Johnson, Charles
						Johnson, Eudorus M.
						Johnson, Richard O.
						Jones, Claudius C.
						Joss, Frederick A.
						Judson, Frederick R.
						Kahlo, Henry C.
						Kaylor, William H.
						Kennedy, Charles F.
						Kenyon, Clarence A.
						Kerper, John M.
						Ketcham, Frank M.
						Kilbourn, John F.
						King, Myron D.
						Kinney, Horace E.
						Kissling, Charles F.
						Knight, William W.
						Kregelo, John L.
						Kurz, Frederick C.
						Lacey, William L.
						Langdon, Harvey C.
						Langstaff, William
						Larned, J. M.
						Lash, H. M.
						Lash, M. R.
						Lassen, John
						Lawrence, Kenneth
						Lee, Solon E.



						

						Lefler, Charles W.
						LePage, John P.
						Lesh, Charles P.
						Lester, Alexander G.
						Levey, Louis H.
						Lilly, James W.
						Lockwood, Virgil H.
						Long, Henry N.
						Losey, Robert C.
						Lynn, Winfield S.
						Mackay, A. N.
						Mackintosh, George
						MacIntire, L. W.
						Madeira, Wilford W.
						Malott, Charles M.
						Mannfeld, W. A.
						Mansfield, Henry A.
						Maris, John D.
						Martin, F. H.
						Martin, Henry D.
						Martin, Henry R.
						Meyer, Charles F.
						Miner, Benjamin D.
						Miles, Richard R.
						Miller, Charles H.
						Miller, William D.
						Moore, Jesse C.
						Moore, Robert E.
						Moore, Thomas C.
						Moore, William A.
						Moreland, Frank B.
						Morgan, Sylvester A.
						Morrison, Lynn A.
						Morrison, Lewis E.
						Morrison, Samuel L.
						Morrison, William H., Jr.
						Mosel, George J.
						Mull, George F.
						Murphy, Harry
						Muzzy, Frank A.
						McAdams, W. A.
						McCarty, Orin P.
						McCrea, Frank F.
						McElwee, John
						McKenzie, James A.
						McLain, Liberty C.
						McMaster, J. L.
						McMaster, Samuel H.
						McMurray, Welcome B.
						Nebeker, Sewall A.
						Neff, Richard H.
						Neidigh, Simon P.
						Neumann, John W.
						Neumann, Kurt
						Ogburn, William H.
						Olcott, E. L.
						Oldham, Joseph W.
						O'Rear, P. O.
						Overstreet, Jesse
						Parry, David M.
						Parry, Edward S.
						Payne, Gavin L.
						Peake, James T.
						Peck, Leslie E.
						Peelle, Stanton J.
						Pendergast, John G.
						Perry, Charles C.
						Perry, James H.
						Pfaffiin, Henry A.
						Pickens, William A.
						Pierson, Albert S.
						Pierson, Chiron C.
						Pirkey, Jacob H.
						Potter, T. E.
						Powell, David
						Powell, George W.
						Prather, Austin B.
						Pray, Frank M.
						Pritchard, Evan H.
						Pugh, Finley B.
						Pyle, George C.
						Phythian, R. L.
						Quayle, William A.
						Raffensberger, Hiram C.
						Railey, Jesse P.
						Raub, Edward B.


						

						Reid, Thomas
						Reinshagen, Harry B.
						Richardson, W. W.
						Riggs, Thomas H.
						Robbins, Irvin
						Roberts, John ,S.
						Roberts, John W.
						Rockwell, George E.
						Rogers, Benjamin F.
						Rouser, Charles H.
						Russell, Charles P.
						Ryse, Richard
						Schad, Fred E.
						Schaefer, C. Richard
						Schetter, Louis F.
						Scholl, Logan C.
						Sedwick, Charles W.
						Sellars, Albert H.
						Severson, James
						Shockney, John N.
						Shufelton, Thomas P.
						Sickels, Frederick S.
						Sipp, Benjamin F.
						Sloan, Frank T.
						Sloan, George B.
						Sloan, George W.
						Smiley, Thomas G.
						Smith, Harry B.
						Smith, Henry B.
						Smith, Horace E.
						Smith, Jacob W.
						Smith, J. Lee
						Smith, J. Johnson
						Smith, Robert A.
						Smith, Theodore W.
						Snyder, Leroy E.
						Sorenson, S. C.
						Southern, Thomas J.
						Sproule, William K., Jr.,
						Stalauker, Wteak D..
						Stephens, Robert E.
						Stewart, Alexander KM.
						Stewart, Garland R.
						Stewart, William G.
						Stone, Charles S.
						Stout, Edward E.
						Swanston, William
						Sweet, Frank E.
						Sweet, Samuel B.
						Swigget, Walter F.
						Taggart, Thomas
						Taylor, Arthur J.
						Thomas, Louis A.
						Thompson, Anderson S.
						Thurber, William E.
						Townley, Morris M.
						Tutewiler, Charles W.
						Tutewiler, Harry D.
						Tutewiler, Henry W.
						Tweed, Charles E.
						Tyndall, R. H.
						VanCamp, Robert P.
						Van Camp, Samuel G.
						Van Wie, Homer H.
						Van Hummell, Harry
						VanSickle, Earl R.
						Van Sickle, F. M.
						Wade, Frank P.
						Wainwright, L. M.
						Wallace, David
						Wallick, John F.
						Walker, Merle N. A.
						Wanamaker, C. B.
						Ward, Boswell
						Warner, Elward W.
						Watson, Joseph S.
						Watts, Jacob B.
						Watts, James M.
						Weakley, George W.
						Weakley, Robert P.
						Weller, Harry D.
						Werbe, Henry G.
						Werner, L. A.
						Wheelock, William R.
						White, Charles E.
						Wildhack, William A.


						

						Wiley, Frederick H.
						Wilhelm, William H.
						Willard, Albert L.
						Williams, J. R.
						Wilson, John R.
						Wilson, J. Russell
						Winters, James M.
						Winters, Fred H.
						Wood, Frank W.
						Woodman, A. Clayton.
						Wright, Harvey W.
						Wynne, Thomas A.
						Yoke, Nelson
						Young, Archibald A.
						York, Robert B. S.
						Zimmerman, C.
					
					Total membership—403.


					
						HONORARY MEMBERS.

						Parker, Chas. J. W., Jr.
						Tarkington, W. S. R.
						Thompson, Ed. P.
					
				

				
				
					DANIEL W. HOWE, Ex-Judge Superior Court.
				

				
					THOMAS L. SULLIVAN, Ex-Mayor of Indianapolis.
				

				
					EDWARD D. MOORE, Past Worshipful Master and Present Secretary.
				

				
					JAMES T. LAYMAN, State Senator.
				

				
					MARTIN M. HUGG, Ex-State Senator.
				

				
					PROMINENT CITIZENS WHO HAVE SERVED AS WORSHIPFUL MASTER OF ORIENTAL
						LODGE.
				



				

				
					

					ORIENTAL LODGE, NO. 500,FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS.
					On or about April 25th, 1874, a petition signed by John M. Bramwell, Moses R. Barnard,
						Clark M. Randall, Andrew W. Bronson, Eli F. Ritter, William V. Hawk, Henry C. Guffin,
						George W. Powell, Ryland T. Brown, Joseph A. Humphreys, John D. Morris, John F. Council,
						Charles P. Jacobs, Thomas O. Morris, David Powell, Hugh B. Dickson and George W.
						Alexander was circulated, praying for a dispensation to organize a new Lodge of Free and
						Accepted Ancient York Masons, to be located in the city of Indianapolis, Indiana, and to
						be named Oriental Lodge.
					The aforesaid petitioners recommended for appointment by the Most Worshipful Grand
						Master of the Grand Lodge of Indiana Brother Moses R. Barnard to be Worshipful Master,
						Brother Charles P. Jacobs Senior Warden, and Brother Eli F. Ritter Junior Warden of the
						proposed new Lodge.
					Brother John Caven was appointed as a Special Deputy by MostWorshipful Grand Master
						Lucien A. Foote, of Crawfordile, to visit the petitioners and investigate their Masonic
						proficiency and their standing in the  community. Brother
						Caven found them to be worthy and deserving and possessed of the necessary
						qualifications to enable them to impart proper instruction to candidates, and
						recommended that their prayer be granted. On June 12th, 1874, the Most Worshipful Grand
						Master issued a dispensation for the new Lodge and suitable quarters were secured in
						Buschmann's block, corner of Fort Wayne avenue and St. Mary's street, where they met on
						June 17th for the purpose of completing their organization.

					Brother William V. Hawk was appointed to act as Treasurer, John M. Bramwell Secretary,
						Clark M. Randall Senior Deacon, and Joseph A. Humphreys Junior Deacon. Moses R. Barnard,
						who had been named for first Worshipful Master, finding that he was unable to serve,
						resigned from the position, and the Most Worshipful Grand Master, on November I3th,
						appointed Brother Charles P. Jacobs to be Worshipful Master, Brother Daniel Waite Howe
						Senior Warden, and Brother Joseph A. Humphreys Junior Warden. The Lodge continued under
						this organization until June 23d, 1875, when Brother John Caven, as Special Deputy Grand
						Master, assisted by Brother Ryland T. Brown, proceeded to constitute Oriental Lodge, No.
						500, into a lawful and regular Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons under Charter of the
						Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of the State of Indiana, and duly installed the following
						set of officers: Charles P. Jacobs, Worshipful Master; Daniel W. Howe, Senior Warden;
						Clark M. Randall, Junior


					

					Warden; William V. Hawk, Treasurer; John M. Bramwell, Secretary; Jacob J. Frank, Senior
						Deacon; Ethan A. Cadwell, Junior Deacon, and John Hardwick, Tyler. Brother Worth Wright
						was the first candidate to petition for initiation into the new Lodge.
					That the Lodge grew and prospered is evidenced by its present high character and
						standing, but during its early history in the days following the depression succeeding
						the panic of 1873, prosperity did not always perch upon its banners. Those were indeed
						dark days for the little band of Masons who were endeavoring to maintain their Lodge
						organization and hold aloft the banner of symbolic Masonry, and had it not been for a
						few loyal hearts, its Charter would have been surrendered and Oriental Lodge would have
						ceased to exist.
					But after the storms and trials of the earlier days came success, peace and unity until
						today its membership numbers over two hundred and sixty earnest, active, zealous
						Brothers. The names of some of the most prominent Masons of Indianapolis appear or have
						appeared on the roster of Oriental Lodge. Among them might be mentioned Past Grand
						Master Andrew J. Hay, Judge Daniel Waite Howe, Judge George W. Stubbs, General Benjamin
						A. Richardson, ex-Mayor Thomas L. Sullivan, ex-Speaker Justus C. Adams, Senator James T.
						Layman, ex-ntor Martin M. Hugg, Hon. Ovid B. Jameson, Hon. Joseph B. Kealing, Hon. John
						B. Cockrum, Hon. William N. Harding, Dr. John H. Oliver, Dr. Joseph W.



					

					Marsee, Dr. Hugo O. Pantzer, William M. Cochran, Edward D. Moore, etc. The Lodge held
						its meetings in Buschmann's block, southwest corner of Fort Wayne avenue and St. Mary's
						street, until 1888, when it moved to the northwest corner of the same streets, where it
						remained about two years. In 1891 it removed to the Masonic Temple, corner Tennessee
						(now Capitol avenue) and Washington streets, and remained there until January, 1895,
						when it moved into its present new and handsome quarters at the southwest corner of
						College and Christian avenues, in Buschmann's block, where it is hoped it may live and
						dwell in peace and harmony for many years to come and be ever ready to extend the hand
						of fraternal friendship to all worthy members of the craft who desire to spend a
						pleasant evening with congenial Masonic brothers.
					The present officers of Oriental Lodge are:
					
						JOHN W. FOLGER, Worshipful Master.
						JAMES E. KEPPERLEY, Senior Warden.
						JOHN T. SAULTER, Junior Warden.
						JOHN J. TWINAME, Treasurer.
						EDWARD D. MOORE, Secretary.
						JAMES D. JACOBS, Senior Deacon.
						CHARLES W. CONGER, Junior Deacon.
						WILLIAM M. WILKES, Steward.
						CLIFFORD J. SHEPHERD, Steward.
						GEORGE W. WOLFARD, Tyler.
					


					

					
						CHARLES P. JACOBS, First Worshipful Master of Oriental Lodge. 
					

					
					
					
						WORSHIPFUL MASTERS OF ORIENTAL LODGE FROM THE ORGANIZATION IN 1874 TO
							1902.
						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							1
							Charles P. Jacobs
							Nov. 13, 1874, to Dec. 13, 1875
						
						
							1
							John M. Bramwell
							Dec. 13, 1875, to Dec. 11, 1876
						
						
							1
							James T. Layman
							Dec. 11, 1876, to Dec. 10, 1877
						
						
							1
							Alpheus Tyner
							Dec. 10, 1877, to Dec. 19, 1878
						
						
							2
							Daniel Waite Howe
							Dec. 19, 1878, to Dec. 13, 1880
						
						
							3
							Frank W. Patton
							Dec. 13, 1880, to Dec. 11, 1883
						
						
							2
							Thomas L. Sullivan
							Dec. 11, 1883, to Dec. 8, 1885
						
						
							2
							Rice T. Bates
							Dec. 8, 1885, to Dec. 13, 1887
						
						
							1
							William Morse
							Dec. 13, 1887, to Dec. 11, 1888
						
						
							1
							Rice T. Bates
							Dec. 11, 1888, to Dec. 10, 1889
						
						
							2
							Wesley M. Gerard
							Dec. 10, 1889, to Dec. 8, 1891
						
						
							1
							Martin M. Hugg
							Dec. 8, 1891, to Dec. 13, 1892
						
						
							2
							Charles A. Nicoli
							Dec. 13, 1892, to Dec. 8, 1894
						
						
							2
							Edward D. Moore
							Dec. 8, 1894, to Dec. 8, 1896
						
						
							1
							Albert T. Isensee
							Dec. 8, 1896, to Dec. 8, 1897
						
						
							1
							Herman A. Goth
							Dec. 8, 1897, to Dec. 8, 1898
						
						
							1
							Cory Mull
							Dec. 8, 1898, to Dec. 8, 1899
						
						
							1
							Charles B. Burger
							Dec. 8, 1899, to Dec. 8, 1900
						
						
							1
							William S. Overstreet
							Dec. 8, 1900, to Dec. 10, 1901
						
						
							1
							John W. Folger
							Dec. 10, 1901, to —, 1902
						
					

					
						SECRETARIES OF ORIENTAL LODGE FROM THE ORGANIZATION IN 1874 TO 1902.
						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							2
							John M. Bramwell
							June 17, 1874, to Dec. 13, 1876
						
						
							2
							Walter V. Lippincott
							Dec. 13, 1876, to Dec. 10, 1878
						
						
							7
							John M. Bramwell
							Dec. 10, 1878, to Dec. 8, 1885
						
						
							10
							Howard Kimball
							Dec. 8, 1885, to Dec. 10, 1895
						
						
							1
							Wesley M. Gerard
							Dec. 10, 1895, to Dec. 8, 1896
						
						
							6
							Edward D. Moore
							Dec. 8, 1896, to —, 1902
						
					


					

					MEMBERS OF ORIENTAL LODGE JANUARY 1, 1902.
					
						Adams, Justus C.
						Aldrich, James F.
						Allen, Granville G.
						Allen, Wilbur B.
						Allison, James Asbury
						Allison, William D.
						Aneshaensel, Charles, Jr.
						Anthony, James R.
						Appel, John J.
						Arthur, Charles H.
						Baker, Frank H.
						Baker, Jason E.
						Baker, John J.
						Barger, George T.
						Barrett, Charles E.
						Bates, Charles A.
						Bates, Rice T.
						Becker, Charles
						Becker, Jacob, Jr.
						Beem, Seth P.
						Beiser, Henry
						Billingsley, Denton F.
						Binager, Vintzson B.
						Bock, John E.
						Bowers, Frank
						Bowman, Willis M.
						Brooks, Edmund P.
						Browder, Cornelius D.
						Brown, Tull Emet
						Browne, Elijah Powell
						Buchanan, Charles J.
						Buchanan, Wallace
						Burger, Charles B.
						Burton, Edward C.
						Buschmann, August W.
						Buschmann, Charles L.
						Buschmann, George H.
						Buschmann, Harry C.

						Buschmann, William F.
						Cameron, Clare G.
						Canis, Edward N.
						Cavanagh, Joseph R.
						Chandler, George M.
						Clinton, John Edward
						Cochran, William M.
						Cockrum, John B.
						Coldwell, Horace G.
						Collins, James A.
						Conger, Charles Walter
						Conkey, John Anthony
						Conkle, Anson B.
						Cook, William
						Cooley, Samuel M.
						Cooper, Lewis Wallace
						Cosler, Charles E.
						Costin, Earl McCorkle
						Cowan, Harry Arthur
						Craft, Augustus P.
						Craig, William Robert
						Crane, Charles Ernest
						Crompton, Ebenezer
						Crump, Lawrence M.
						Dalrymple, John M.
						Davenport, Frank B.
						Davis, Isaac Edward
						Deitch, Clarence C.
						Dithmer, Henry L.
						Doser, Edward W.
						Douglass, William W.
						Dryer, Charles A.
						Duncan, Samuel E.
						Dungan, Samuel O.
						Dunlavey, Ira E.
						Elkins, John A.
						Elliott, Ernest M.
						Elliott, Robert




						

						Ellis, Charles Warren
						English, Frank J.
						Fellers, Morse
						Fickinger, William J.
						Fish, William S.
						Folgr, John W.
						Franklin, James Edward
						Galfbraith, Harris H.
						Gardner, Fredrick C.
						Gates, Arthur Deuel
						Gaylord, Francis B.
						Gibson, Thomas F.
						Gillett, Welby Herndon
						Goth, Edward G.
						Goth, Herman Albert
						Greenleaf, Edward T.
						Greenwood, David
						Greenwood, Harry E.
						Greenwood, Ira T.
						Gregory, Frederick A.
						Grow, Arthur Daniel
						Hadley, Horace E.
						Hager, Francis M., Sr.
						Hager, Francis M., Jr.
						Hale, James
						Hall, Don Karl
						Hamilton, Francis W.
						Hamilton, James A.
						Hammer, Frank E.
						Harden, Tyre N.
						Harding, Wm. Newton
						Harris, Rolla
						Harshman, Alvin Jacob
						Hartman, Charles L.
						Heckard, William Alex.
						Hedden, Edwin C.
						Hedges, John T.
						Heiner, Frederick A.
						Hereth, Edwrd G.G
						Herriek, Richard C.
						Hetzel, Edgar Bauer
						Hill, George A.
						Hillman, Joseph W.

						Hinman, Jack J.
						Hornshu, C. Frederic
						Hollowell, Lynden C.
						Hopkins, Murat W.
						Hoshour, Edward S.
						Hoster, James Perry
						Howe, Daniel Waite
						Howe, Perley G.
						Hugg, Martin Marian
						Huston, William H.
						Hutchins, Francis F.
						Isensee, Albert T.
						Jacobs, Frank W.
						Jacobs, James D.
						Jacoby, Elias J.
						Jameson, Ovid Butler
						Johnson, William Frank
						Jones, DeWitt Clinton
						Jones, Walter B.
						Jordan, William H.
						Kaisig, Theodore
						Kealing, Joseph B.
						Keepers, John W.
						Keller, William P.
						Kepperley, James Edgar
						Kiefer, Charles J.
						Kimball, Henry W.
						Kimball, Howard
						Kistner, Charles C.
						Kitchell, Joseph Gray
						Klausmann, Henry W.
						Koehne, George W.
						Kuhler, George G.
						Kuhn, Charles J.
						Krueger, August J.
						Landers, Jackson
						Lasher, Clinton DeVere
						Lawler, William Hubbard
						Layman, James T.
						Layman, J. Thompson
						Leathers, Douglas A.
						Lee, Charles F.
						Linegar, John T.


						

						Little, James
						Long, John
						Losey, William S.
						Manson, William L.
						Marlowe, Elliott
						Massey, Edward W.
						Matthews, Albert C.
						Mayfield, Clifford H.
						Meier, Lewis, Jr.
						Messenger, Wm. Horndon
						Meyer, August B.
						Meyer, Edward H.
						Meyer, George F.
						Miller, John A.
						Minor, John W.
						Minor, John W., Jr.
						Mitchell, William S.
						Montgomery, George R.
						Moore, Edward D.
						Moore, Harry Staats
						Moore, Nathan A.
						Mordough, Charles C.
						Morre, Henry C.
						Morrell, Lewis H.
						Morse, William
						Mull, Cory
						Myers, Charles R.
						Nethery, Joseph W.
						O'Brien, James
						Ogden, Maurice J.
						Oliver, John H.
						Overstreet, William S.
						Page, Elmer G.
						Pantzer, Hugo O.
						Parker, Charles J. W., Jr.
						Paul, John B.
						Peck, Charles H.
						Pendleton, Albert D.
						Pendleton, George
						Perkins, Julian Wells
						Perry, Clark
						Pierce, James Edward
						Pletcher, Thomas M.

						Prentiss, J. Henry F.
						Pritchard, Edwin D.
						Purman, Darius M.
						Pyatt, William J.
						Quinn, Thomas J.
						Randall, Theodore A.
						Reed, Wilson
						Rehm, George H.
						Reubens, George B.
						Richardson, Benjamin A.
						Robertson, Charles Maxwell
						Ross, Robert
						Rundell, Clarence C.
						Saltmarsh, Walter S.
						Sandborn, Gerry M.
						Saulter, John T.
						Schlotzhauer, George J.
						Scott, Oscar E.
						Shafer, Harvey G.
						Sharpe, Joseph K., Jr.
						Shearer, Samuel H.
						Shepherd, Clifford
						Sherman, Charles Jerome
						Shideler, John Edward
						Silvius, Ellis T.
						Simmelink, Harry B.
						Sipe, Jacob Corpenny
						Sloan, Charles Elmer
						Smith, Henry Leavitt
						Smith, John W.
						Smither, Theodore F.
						Smock, Ferdinand C.
						Smock, Hanford E.
						Southworth, Martin O.
						Sparks, William J.
						Spiegel, George M.
						Sprankle, Walter Scott
						Stein, Albert
						Stuart, Eugene E.
						Sullivan, Thomas L.
						Taylor, Alexander Foster
						Taylor, William L.
						Tedrowe, Joseph T.



						

						Thomas, Frederick L.
						Thomas, William H.
						Thompson, William B.
						Thornburgh, Thomas R.
						Thornton, William W.
						Timerlake, Arthur
						Townsend, Samuel Adams
						Travis, Charles M.
						Twiname, James E.
						Twiname, John J.
						Van Blarcum, Newton
						Vogelsong, George E.
						Wade, Ohio L.
						Waide, Robert
						Wallace, Henry Lane
						Weadon, George A.
						Weaver, George
						Weaver, George A.
						Weaver, Harry E.

						Wehrman, Jule O.
						Weiss, Christian G.
						Wheeler, William V.
						White, Herman B.
						Whitson, Courtney B.
						Wickard, Willard S.
						Wilkes, William M.
						Wills, Charles Massey
						Wills, Marshall F.
						Wilson, William M.
						Wocher, Adolph G.
						Wocher, Charles A.
						Wocher, John
						Wocher, William F.
						Wolfard, George W.
						Wood, Harry M.
						Woods, Homer A.
						Wright, Worth
						Ziegel, Edward F.
					
					Total membership-290.

					HONORARY MEMBERS.
					
						Gavin, Frank E.
						White, Ahira R.
					
				



				
					

					PENTALPHA LODGE, NO. 564, FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS.
					Pentalpha Lodge, No. 564, was organized under dispensation October 2oth, 1881, with the
						following officers:
					
						MARTIN H. RICE, Worshipful Master.
						EDWARD H. WOLFE, Senior Warden.
						ADOLPH SEIDENSTICKER, Junior Warden.
						JOSEPH STAUB, Treasurer.
						WILLIAM H. SMYTHE, Secretary.
						CHARLES FELLER, Senior Deacon.
						NICHOLAS B. BOILVIN, Junior Deacon.
						GEORGE W. GRIFFITH, Steward.
						LORENZ SCHMIDT, Steward.
					
					The petitioners for the dispensation were as follows:
					
						Martin H. Rice,
						Edward H. Wolfe,
						*Adolph
							Seidensticker,
						*Joseph Staub,
						William H. Smythe,
						†Charles Feller,

						Edward Mueller,
						Emil Martin,
						†Edward W. McKenna,
						David Nicholson,
						John R. Nickum,
						*Nicholas R. Ruckle,
					

					*Dead
					†Dimitted. (Of these, some
						have since died.)

					
					
						JOHN W. STAUB.
					
					
						HENRY H. CLARK.
					

					
						ELMER A. SIMYTHE.
					

					
						GEORGE A. GAY.
					
					
						ELMIER F. GAY.
					
					
						WORSHIPFUL MASTERS OF PENTALPHA LODGE In recent years.
					





					
					
					
						Nicholas B. Boilvin,
						Lorenz Schmidt,
						†George W. Griffith,
						Ignatius Brown,
						Jacob M. Bruner,
						Eugene A. Cooper,
						Robert P. Daggett,
						†Phillip Dohn,
						*Ferdinand Dietz,
						Byron K. Elliott,
						*Jesse B. Farra,
						Samuel A. Johnson,
						*‡Wenzel Kautsky,
						‡Charles Kuetemeier,
						‡John Knight,
						Charles Lauer,
						John Martin,

						*Peter Routier,
						*Fred Dietz,
						David B. Shideler,
						*Adam Scott,
						August Schmidt,
						Joseph W. Sherwood,
						*Robert Thomas,
						†S. C. Seaton,
						*Isaac Thalman,
						†Chris Schetter,
						Major Taylor,
						*‡Charles E. Wright,
						Herman Weinberger,
						William Wiegel,
						†J. C. Wilson,
						E. L. Williams,
					

					*Dead.
					†Dimitted. (Of these, some
						have since died.)
					‡Name does not appear later
						upon the Charter list.


					The Grand Lodge, at its annual meeting, May 23d, 1882, issued a Charter to the new
						Lodge, which was regularly constituted under said Charter June 1st, 1882, with the
						following named officers:
					
						MARTIN H. RICE, Worshipful Master.
						EDWARD H. WOLFE, Senior Warden.
						ADOLPH SEIDENSTICKER, Junior Warden.
						JOSEPH STAUB, Treasurer.
						WILLIAM H. SMYTHE, Secretary.

						

						CHARLES FELLER, Senior Deacon.
						NICHOLAS B. BOILVIN, Junior Deacon.
						GEORGE Russ, Steward.
						HENRY C. G. BALS, Steward.
					

					The Charter members were the same that signed the petition for dispensation, except
						that four names were withdrawn and the following names added to the list: J. F. Borst,
						Henry C. G. Bals, Joshua A. Compton, Christian Fry, William C. Griffith, Samuel Hanway,
						Robert S. Heiskell, Julian W. Hinkley, Fred Kline, George W. New, Charles W. Osgood,
						George Russ and William H. H. Welch.
					Pentalpha Lodge has borne upon its rolls the names of many of the best known men and
						Masons of Indianapolis. Among them are ex-County Treasurer Samuel Hanway, ex-Sheriff
						George H. Carter, ex-State Auditor Edward H. Wolfe, ex-Collector of Customs August M.
						Kuhn, ex-President Board of Works Allen M. Conduit, ex-Councilman Isaac Thalman,
						ex-Councilman Albert Daller, Superintendent of Parks J. Clyde Power, Judge Byron K.
						Elliott, Judge Robert W. McBride, Rev. Andrew J. Graham, Dr. Lewis C. Cline, Dr. Wilmer
						Christian, Charles L. Hutchinson, John W. Staub, Vestal W. Woodward, George A. Gay,
						Herman Weinberger, etc. Three of the bright and shining lights of the Grand Lodge of
						Indiana at the time were among the active founders of Pentalpha Lodge—Past Grand
						Master Martin H. Rice, Past Grand Master Nicholas R. Ruckle and 
						
							MARTIN H. RICE,First Worshipful Master of Pentalpha Lodge.
								Grand Master of the Grand Lodge, 1868-1872. Grand High Priest of the Grand
								Chapter, 1878.
						
						
						 Grand Secretary William H. Smythe, the last named having
						served the Lodge as Secretary continuously from its organization down to the beginning
						of the service of the present incumbent. With these Fathers of Indiana Masony at the
						helm from its inception, it is not strange that entalha Lodge has taken a high place
						among the Masonic Lodges of the capital city.

					The present officers of Pentalpha Lodge are:
					
						ELMER F. GAY, Worshipful Master.
						THOMAS G. LEE, Senior Warden.
						CHARLES S. MURPHY, Junior Warden.
						MARTIN H. RICE, Treasurer.
						FRANK T. MCQUIDDY, Secretary.
						SHERIDAN HAWKINS, Senior Deacon.
						ISAAC E. BROKAW, Junior Deacon.
						HARRY H. GATES, Steward.
						HARRY B. CULVER, Steward.
						NATHANIEL J. BROWN, Tyler.
					

					
						Worshipful Masters of Pentalpha LodgeFROM THE ORGANIZATION IN
							1881 TO 1902.

						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						

						
							5
							Martin H. Rice
							Oct. 20, 1881, to Dec. 2, 1886
						
						
							1
							Nicholas R. Ruckle
							Dec. 2, 1886, to Dec. 1, 1887
						
						
							3
							John W. Staub
							Dec. 1, 1887, to Dec. 18, 1890
						
						
							1
							Henry H. Clark
							Dec. 18, 1890, to Dec. 17, 1891
						
						
							2
							John W. Staub
							Dec. 17, 1891, to Jan. 4, 1894
						
						
							2
							Charles L. Hutchinson.
							Jan. 4, 1894, to Jan. 2, 1896
						
						
							1
							George A. Gay
							Jan. 2, 1896, to Jan. 7, 1897
						
						
							1
							Vestal W. Woodward
							Jan. 7, 1897, to Dec. 2, 1897
						
						
							2
							John W. Staub
							Dec. 2, 1897, to Dec. 7 1899
						
						
							2
							Elmer A. Smythe
							Dec. 7, 1899, to Dec. 5, 1901
						
						
							1
							Elmer F. Gay
							Dec. 5, 1901, to —, 1902
						
					


					

					
						SECRETARIES OF PENTALPHA LODGE FROM THE ORGANIZATION IN 1881 TO
							1902.
						
							Number of Consecutive Terms
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							19
							William H. Smythe
							Oct. 20, 1881, to Dec. 7, 1899
						
						
							3
							Frank T. McQuiddy
							Dec. 7, 1899, to —, 1902
						
					



					MEMBERS OF PENTALPHA LODGE JANUARY 1, 1902.
					
						Ambrose, William B.
						Allison, Wallace S.
						Anthony, Maurice
						Alig, George
						Bertermann, William G.
						Bass, Joseph
						Bartley, William A.
						Burgess, George D.
						Blaker, Louis J.
						Boilvin, Nicholas B.
						Birk, Harry A.
						Birk, Martin
						Birk, Martin, Jr.
						Brown, Ignatius
						Bruner, Jacob M.
						Brown, Nathaniel J.
						Blair, Jesse H.
						Brown, Hiram
						Birk, William M.
						Bohon, Charles O.
						Bohlen, Oscar D.
						Brookshire, Swan
						Brown, Samuel W.
						Ballman, John H.
						Bodine, James E.
						Borst, George F.
						Buck, Benjamin F.
						Brokaw, Isaac E.
						Conner, William S.

						Compton, Joshua A.
						Cryan, John
						Clark, Henry H.
						Conduitt, Allen W.
						Crosley, Charles S.
						Cooper, Eugene A.
						Cline, Lewis C.
						Christian, Thomas J.
						Crumpton, John H.
						Coutts, John M.
						Chandler, William G.
						Culver, Harry B.
						Clark, Edmund D.
						Clapp, William H.
						Christian, Wilmer
						Christian, Harry E.
						Culver, Dudley M.
						Cobler, Isaac P.
						Crimins, John C.
						Castor, Thomas
						Carroll, John H.
						Coleman, Rome B.
						Daggett, Robert P.
						Daller, Albert
						Dietz, Emil
						Dilks, John H.
						Dalzell, William T.
						Davis, Albert E.
						Dissette, James I.




						

						Elliott, Byron K.
						Epps, Harry G.
						Fatout, Daniel H.
						Freeland, John L.
						Frank, Frederick W.
						Gates, Harry B.
						Goheen, Frank H.
						Griffith, William G.
						Gay, George A.
						Gay, Elmer F.
						Graham, Harry J.
						Goetz, Phillip
						Gilliland, Elmer E.
						Glenn, Sherman
						Gates, Harrie H.
						Gunther, Charles W.
						Griffin, William R.
						Hagen, Andrew
						Hanson, Charles W.
						Hoffman, Harry A.
						Holladay, Arthur
						Humphrey, David
						Henry, Jacob
						Hutchinson, Charles L.
						Haas, Schuyler A.
						Holmes, William
						Haldeman, Harry M.
						Hawkins, Sheridan
						Haugh, William C.
						Hahn, Adolph R.
						Hollywood, Richard H.
						Hendren, Samuel G.
						Hazen, George W.
						Hammel, William W.
						Howell, Glenn E.
						Johnson, Alfred
						Johnson, Albert D.
						Jungelaus, William P.
						Johaon, Samuel A.
						Jungclaus, Frederick W.
						Karle, Christian
						Kuhn, August M.
						Keehn, Clarence H.

						Kirkhoff, John H.
						Kern, George S.
						Keyes, John W.
						Lauer, Charles
						Lewis, Frank W.
						Loudon, George
						Lauer, Charles W.
						Lee, Thomas G.
						Lee, Fielding T.
						Lowther, Jay W.
						Luce, Henry A.
						Martin, Emil
						Martin, John
						May, John S.
						Murphy, Augustus
						Murphy, Charles S.
						Melcher, Frank T.
						Maas, George L.
						Marsh, Harry B.
						Miller, Philip A.
						Mowwe, William F.
						Miller, William T.
						McWorkman, Willard
						McBride, Robert W.
						McQuiddy, Frank T.
						McGrew, James W.
						McCullough, John
						McKneight, Andrew
						Martin, Harry B.
						Malpas, Rolla M.
						Mansfield, Leroy A.
						Nickum, John R.
						Neller, George B.
						Overman, Thomas P.
						Power, J. Clyde
						Paver, John M., Jr.
						Price, William H.
						Parker, Lewis C.
						Prinzler, Carl J.
						Pratt, William D.
						Price, Elgin H.
						Rice, Martin H.
						Rice, John W.


						

						Rice, Will C.
						Rice, Warren E.
						Richie, Isaac N.
						Russ, George
						Rose, Hiram E.
						Reagan, John
						Reagan, Joseph E.
						Reagan, Amos W.
						Russe, William H.
						Rainey, Harvey W.
						Rose, Emmet M.
						Reynolds, F. Foster
						Riebeling, Herman
						Rhine, William E.
						Schmidt, August
						Schmidt, Lorenz
						Sherman, Charles T.
						Shideler, David B.
						Shortridge, James M.
						Smith, Leyton C.
						Smythe, William H.
						Smythe, Elmer A.
						Staub, John W.
						Syfer, Rufus K.
						Schumaker, John A.
						Stout, Horace A.
						Stein, Theodore
						Shireman, William A.
						Stockton, Washington W.
						Schopp, Otto
						Stone, John
						Sinex, Charles B.

						Serrin, William Y.
						Smythe, Donn V.
						Shaneberger, Albert H.
						Schlegel, Frederick J.
						Talmage, Charles H.
						Taylor, Major
						Taylor, James H.
						Taggart, Alexander
						Tomlinson, James M.
						Traub, George F.
						Traub, Alfred H.
						Tracy, John F.
						Vinson, Frank J.
						Vazeille, Entienne R.
						Weinberger, Herman
						Wiegel, William.
						Williamson, Orpheus C.
						Woodward, Vestal W.
						Wiser, Emmett E.
						Whitsett, Charles T.
						Walker, William A.
						Wright, Joseph
						Wild, John F.
						Wiles, Frank M.
						Wayne, Charles L.
						Woods, Lee
						Walter, Charles A.
						Walter, Harry K.
						Wasson, George E.
						Zumpfe, Emil
						Zinn, Peter
						Zinn, Robert E.
					
					Total membership—208.

				

				

				
					CHRISTOPHER C. RITTER.
				
				
					HIRAM D. HARRIS.
				
				
					GEORGE W. MAZE.
				
				
					EDWARD W. BARROWS.
				
				
					WILLIAM F. LAYCOCK.
				
				
					PAST WORSHIPFUL MASTERS OF LOGAN LODGE.
				





				
				
					

					LOGAN LODGE, NO. 575,FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS.

					A convention of Indianapolis brethren of the Masonic Order was held at the Odd Fellows'
						building, on Virginia avenue, late in the year 1887 (the date the Secretary failed to
						put in the record), having in view the organization of a new Masonic Lodge. George T.
						Anderson was chairman of the meeting and John R. Clinton Secretary.
					On the 27th day of January, 1888, a dispensation was granted by Grand Master Mortimer
						Nye for a new Lodge to be known as Logan Lodge, with George T. Anderson Worshipful
						Master, Hiram D. Harris Senior Warden, and William E. Jeffries Junior Warden.
					On the 22d day of May, 1888, a Charter was granted by the Grand Lodge to Logan Lodge,
						No. 575.
					The Lodge was constituted on the 2d of July following by Brother William H. Smythe,
						acting as Deputy Grand Master, and the following named were duly installed as the first
						set of officers under the Charter:

					
						GEORGE T. ANDERSON, Worshipful Master.
						HIRAM D. HARRIS, Senior Warden.
						WILLIAM E. JEFFRIES, Junior Warden.
						HIRAM SEIBERT, Treasurer.



						

						JOHN R. CLINTON, Secretary.
						RALPH E. KENNINGTON, Senior Deacon.
						ROBERT MCCLINTOCK, Junior Deacon.
						HERBERT G. HALLER, Steward.
						JOHN F. RICHARDS, Steward.
						CHARLES N. ROOKER, Tyler.
					

					The signers of the petition for a dispensation for this Lodge numbered forty-three, and
						forty-two of said signers became permanent members of the Lodge when it was constituted.
						Of these eight have died, three have dimitted, six have been suspended, and one has been
						expelled, leaving twenty-four of them still members in good standing in the Lodge.
					The following are those whose names thus appear as applicants for the dispensation and
						as Charter members of Logan Lodge:
					
						George T. Anderson,
						Hiram D. Harris,
						William E. Jeffries,
						John R. Clinton,
						Hiram Seibert,
						Ralph E. Kennington,
						William H. Tucker,
						George F. Phillips,
						Richard S. Colter,
						Austin Rowe,
						Richard Williams,

						Joseph L. Fisher,
						Robert H. Bigger,
						Leander A. Fulmer,
						John A. Porter,
						William N. Wishard,
						Aurelius J. Joyce,
						Peter Routier,
						*Robert McClintock,
						Edwin L. Williams,
						Charles N. Rooker,
						Edward T. Branham,


						

						Henry Bokeloh,
						Clark Miller,
						Hezekiah White,
						Herbert G. Haller,
						Wilia F. Barrows,
						Riehard Murray,
						Benjamin F. Wilson,
						Timothy F. Bassett,
						John F. Richards,
						William Jenkins,
						Frank B. Alley,

						William Koss,
						Joseph R. Forbes,
						William Herndon,
						George Lamb,
						Thomas J. Hudson,
						Charles F. Laycock,
						Frederick Kline,
						Michael Steinhauer,
						Harvey Anderson,
						Andrew Zambell.
					
					* Did not become charter
						member when Lodge was constituted, but soon after affiliated. Since dimitted and
						died.


					Of the foregoing Richard S. Colter, William Herndon, Joseph I. Fisher, Aurelius J.
						Joyce, Peter Routier, Hiram Seibert, William H. Tucker and Hezekiah White are dead, and
						George T. Anderson, Robert H. Bigger and Charles N. Rooker have dimitted.

					The following are still honored and active members of the Lodge:
					
						Alley, Frank B.,
						Anderson, Harvey,
						Barrows, William F.,
						Bassett, Timothy F.,
						Bokeloh, Henry,
						Branham, Edward T.,
						Clinton, John R.,
						Forbes, Joseph R.,
						Fulmer, Leander A.,

						Harris, Hiram D.,
						Haller, Herbert G.,
						Jeffries, William E.,
						Kennington, Ralph E.,
						Kline, Frederick,
						Koss, William,
						Lamb, George,
						Laycock, Charles F.,
						Murray, Richard,




						

						Porter, John A.,
						Richards, John F.,
						Rowe, Austin,

						Steinhauer, Michael,
						Williams, Edwin L.,
						Wishard, William N.
					

					There had been one hundred and forty-six petitions for the degrees filed from the
						organization down to the anniversary of the Charter in 19oo, and of these four were
						rejected, four withdrawn, and one hundred and thirty-eight elected.
					The third degree was conferred upon one brother who had been initiated and passed in
						Manchester Lodge, No. 503, under the written consent and waiver of that Lodge. The
						losses of the Lodge at the above date had been: By death, fifteen; by dimit, eleven; by
						suspension, seventeen; by expulsion, three; total, forty-six.
					There had been also forty-nine applications for membership by affiliation, one of which
						was rejected. The Lodge, January 1st, 1901, had a total membership of one hundred and
						eighty-six Master Masons.
					Among the well-known citizens whose names appear on the rolls of Logan Lodge are:
						United States District Attorney Albert W. Wishard, ex-Senator Romus F. Stuart,
						ex-Representative John Q. Hicks, ex-Representative William H. Leedy, ex-Representative
						John Schley, ex-Representative Alfred M. Glossbrenner, ex-City Clerk John R. Clinton,
						ex-Councilman Michael Steinhauer, Member Board of Public Works Edwin D. Logsdon, Dr.
						William N. Wishard, Dr. Christopher C. Ritter, 
						
							JOHN SCHLEY, Second Worshipful Master of Logan Lodge.
								Secretary of Logan Lodge for the past ten years.
						
						
						 William A. Sullivan, Austin Daugherty, Dynes, etc.

					The present officers of Logan Lodge are:
					
						Glomz W. MAZE, Worshipful Master.
						JOHN P. COCHRANE, Senior Warden.
						HENRY H. BISHOP, Junior Warden.
						MICHAEL STEINHAUIR, Treasurer.
						JOHN SCHLEY, Secretary.
						GEORGE L. PUGH, Senior Deacon.
						EDWARD L. LAYCOCK, Junior Deacon.
						HARRY B. CANFIELD, Steward.
						CARL OTTO DREISS, Steward.
						HARVEY ANDERSON, Tyler.
					
					
						WORSHIPFUL MASTERS OF LOGAN LODGE FROM THE ORGANIZATION IN 1888
							TO 1902.

						
							Numbe Consecutive of Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							5
							George T. Anderson
							Jan. 27, 1888, to Dec. 27, 1891
						
						
							1
							John Schley
							Dec. 27, 1891, to Dec. 27, 1892
						
						
							2
							Christopher C. Ritter
							Dec. 27, 1892, to Dec. 27, 1894
						
						
							2
							Thomas J. Hudson
							Dec. 27, 1894, to Dec. 27, 1896
						
						
							2
							Hiram D. Harris
							Dec. 27, 1896, to Dec. 27, 1898
						
						
							1
							Edward W. Barrows
							Dec. 27, 1898, to Dec. 27, 1899
						
						
							1
							William F. Laycock
							Dec. 27, 1899, to Dec. 27, 1900
						
						
							2
							George W. Maze
							Dec. 27, 1900, to —, 1902
						
					
					
						SECRETARIES OF LOGAN LODGE FROM THE ORGANIZATION IN 1888 TO
							1902.

						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							2
							John R. Clinton
							Jan. 27, 1888, to Dec. 27, 1988
						
						
							3
							John Schley
							Dec. 27, 1888, to Dec. 27, 1891
						
						
							1
							Alfred M. Glossbrenner
							Dec. 27, 1891, to Dec. 27, 1892
						
						
							2
							Hans J. Jacobsen
							Dec. 27, 1892, to Dec. 27, 1894
						
						
							8
							John Schley
							Dec. 27, 1894, to —, 1902
						
					



					

					MEMBERS OF LOGAN LODGE JANUARY 1, 1902.
					
						Allen, Charles W.
						Alley, Frank B.
						Anderson, Harvey
						Armstrong, George C.
						Balcom, Otis
						Baldwin, Jesse
						Barrett, Ray W.
						Barrows, Edward W.
						Barrows, William F.
						Bassett, Timothy F.
						Beggs, James M.
						Bender, Conrad
						Bertelsman, Henry W.
						Bigger, R. F.
						Bishop, H. H.
						Blizard, S. T.
						Bokeloh, Henry
						Branham, Edward
						Branson, Vernon H.
						Brattain, Earl J.
						Brattain, Silas H.
						Britton, Cornelius
						Canfield, Harry B.
						Clarke, Joseph, Jr.
						Cleary, John W.
						Cleary, William F.
						Clinton, John R.
						Cochrane, John P.
						Couk, Clifton E.
						Coulson, Joseph E.
						Crane, Ellis W.
						Cruse, James S.
						Crutcher, Thomas S.
						Custer, Byron J.
						Daugherty, Austin
						Dawson, Charles F.
						Denny, Harry W.
						Deputy, Ivan D.

						Diveley, George A.
						Dreiss, Carl Otto
						Dunn, Benjamin A.
						Dynes, Charles E.
						Dynes, Walton L.
						Edmunds, Arthur R.
						Essmann, W. L.
						Fahle, Paul
						Findling, Edward A.
						Forbes, Joseph R.
						Frey, Herman
						Fulmer, Leander A.
						Gansberg, William F.
						Garrett, James M.
						Glossbrenner, Alfred M.
						Grant, Henry F.
						Gustin, Lewis Q.
						Haller, Herbert G.
						Hankins, Albert L.
						Harris, Hiram D.
						Hatfield, W. F.
						Hauser, Conrad.
						Hensley, Samuel J.
						Hicks, John Q.
						Highland, Charles
						Hill, Francis
						Hitesman, George
						Hockett, Cyrus L.
						Hoover, J. E.
						Horn, Charles W.
						Howell, George E.
						Hull, John
						Hume, Will H.
						Huntington, J. S.
						Hurst, D. R.
						Irish, Samuel F.
						Jacobsen, Hans J.
						Jeffries, William E.


						
						Johnson, Bert M.
						Johnson, Edgar O.
						Johnson, J. Harry
						Johnson, Oscar B.
						Johnson, Thomas R.
						Johnson, William H.
						Johnston, Oliver T.
						Kennedy, Odell E.
						Kennedy, William D.
						Kennington, Ralph E.
						Keys, Joseph A.
						Kiefer, Henry
						Kirkwood, John A.
						Klein, Albert
						Kline, Fred
						Knight, William W.
						Koehring, Charles
						Koss, William
						Koeckert, Fred W.
						Knox, Edwin S.
						LaFuze, Samuel D.
						Lamb, George
						Lane, Dora G.
						Lashley, R. E.
						Lawson, Michael M.
						Laycock, Charles F.
						Laycock, Edward L.
						Laycock, William F.
						Lazenby, Edward
						Leedy, William H.
						Levey, Marshall T.
						Logsdon, E. D.
						Logsdon, Lawrence
						Loucks, John C.
						Lowe, Iley
						Manning, R. F.
						Martin, Jeff
						Mathey, Alfred F.
						Maze, George W.
						Meurer, A. C.
						Moller, Gustav
						Moore, William O.
						Murray, Richard

						McClintock, John R.
						McClintock, Joseph
						McClintock, Robert
						McKeand, Robert A.
						Nesom, Thomas
						Neuforth, Charles
						Overhizer, George M.
						Owings, Francis E.
						Page, Thomas V.
						Pannell, Robert F.
						Parry, Edward H.
						Parsons, George R.
						Porter, J. A.
						Potter, Joseph L.
						Price, James G.
						Pugh, Edwin B.
						Pugh, George L.
						Rafert, Louis F.
						Repp, John F.
						Richards, John F.
						Ridings, Joseph
						Riley, Charles C.
						Ritter, C. C.
						Ritter, C. L.
						Ritter, Levi W.
						Rockafellow, J. V. R.
						Rohrer, David
						Rothert, John H., Jr.
						Rowe, Austin
						Rowe, Percy E.
						Rubin, Jacob
						Sargent, Leonard S.
						Scheigert, William.
						Schley, John
						Schoppe, Edward A.
						Schrader, Charles H.
						Schroeder, Henry C.
						Scott, W. W.
						Searles, Jasper
						Seibert, George W.
						Shawver, A. P.
						Silcox, Schuyler C.
						Simmons, John



						

						Slate, Henry
						Sloan, Warren R.
						Smith, Aurelius
						Smith, Lewis S.
						Smith, Wilbur H.
						Smith, William H.
						Somerville, Elmore W.
						Steinhauer, Michael
						Stephenson, Charles E.
						Stuart, Romus F.
						Sullivan, William A.
						Tedrowe, Charles W.
						Thompson, Charles N.
						Tompkins, William D.
						Tyner, Richard H.
						Ulery, John W.
						Vincent, Edwin B.
						Walker, R. F.

						Wallace, Charles C.
						Wallace, Harry R.
						Wands, James W.
						Weaver, Cletus
						Whitsit, Edward K.
						Williams, E. L.
						Williams, James A.
						Williams, James P.
						Wilson, Arthur N.
						Wishard, Albert W.
						Wishard, W. N.
						Witthoft, Charles
						Woerner, Charles A.
						Wonnell, Charles
						Worrell, Edwin C.
						Worrell, Preston L.
						York, Charles C.
					
					Total membership—197.


				



				
				
					JOHN J. VALDENAIRE. Past Worshipful Master.
				

				
					JOHN C. DEHN, Past Worshipful Master.
				

				
					WILLIAM P. MESSERSMITH, Present Worshipful Master.
				

				
					JOHN A. BRADSHAW, Past Secretary. 
				
				
					EDGAR A. LEFT\WICH, Present Secretary.
				
				
					 WORSHIPFUL MASTERS AND SECRETARIES OF VERITAS LODGE. 1898-1902.
				


				

				
					

					VERITAS LODGE, NO. 608, FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS.
					Grand Master Edward O'Rourke granted a dispensation for the establishment of Veritas
						Lodge, No. 608, on February 20oth, 1896, and the first meeting (being also the first
						stated meeting) was held on the night of February 25th, 1896, with the following list of
						officers and members :
					OFFICERS.
					
						CALVIN W. BUSH, Worshipful Master.
						JAMES HOLMES, Senior Warden.
						JOHN J. VALDENAIRE, Junior Warden.
						JOHN BRADSHAW, Secretary.
						JAMES RAPSON, Treasurer.
						JOHN C. DEHN, Senior Deacon.
						EDWARD J. GRIFFITH, Junior Deacon.
						BENJAMIN A. BROWN, Steward.
						DANIEL C. HUFFMAN, Steward.
						JOHN W. ARMSTRONG, Tyler.
					
					MEMBERS.
					
						Attridge, Oliver H.,
						Armstrong, John W.,

						Brown, Benjamin A.,
						Bradshaw, John,


						

						Bush, Calvin W.,
						Clark, Benjamin A.,
						Clark, Charles L.,
						Clark, George W.,
						Cropper, James,
						Dehn, John C.,
						Engle, Silas P.,

						Griffith, Edward J.,
						Holmes, James,
						Kappler, Charles H.,
						Rapson, James,
						Traub, Jacob J.,
						Valdenaire, John J.,
						Huffman, Daniel C.
					

					At this meeting the petitions were received of Douglas W. Fleshman, John H. Winenow and
						William P. Messersmith, and all three were later elected and duly became members of the
						Lodge.
					The Lodge was granted a Charter at the next meeting of the Grand Lodge, May 26th, 1896,
						and was instituted on the night of July 7th, 1896, by Past Master Jacob W. Smith,
						assisted by Worshipful Master Lewis E. Morrison, of Mystic Tie Lodge, with the following
						list of Charter members:

					
						Calvin W. Bush, Center Lodge, No. 23, Indianapolis.
						James Holmes, Center Lodge, No. 23, Indianapolis.
						Benjamin A. Brown, Center Lodge, No. 23, Indianapolis
						John Bradshaw, Center Lodge, No. 23, Indianapolis.
						James Cropper, Center Lodge, No. 23, Indianapolis.
						Edward J. Griffith, Center Lodge, No. 23, Indianapolis.
						Benjamin A. Clark, Center Lodge, No. 23, Indianapolis
						George W. Clark, Center Lodge, No. 23, Indianapolis.
						Silas P. Engle, Center Lodge, No. 23, Indianapolis.




						

						John C. Dehn, Marion Lodge, No. 35, Indianapolis.
						Jacob J. Traub, Oriental Lodge, No. 500, Indianapolis.
						Charles IH Kappler, Fidelity Lodge, No. 327, Galion, Ohio.
						John N. Arstrong, Wilmington Lodge, No. 158, Wilmington, Indiana.
						James Rapson, Social Lodge, No. 86, Terre Haute, Indiana.
						John J. Valdenaire, Lake Shore Lodge, No. 298, Benton Harbor, Michigan.
						Douglas W. Fleshman, Veritas Lodge, U. D., Indianapolis.
						John H. Winenow, Veritas Lodge, U. D., Indianapolis.
						William P. Messersmith, Veritas Lodge, U. D., Indianapolis.
					

					Some of the brethren that petitioned for the dispensation failed to get their dimits in
						time and did not get in under the head of Charter members and were compelled to enroll
						themselves later, but all are now members in good standing in the "baby" Lodge of the
						Masonic Brotherhood of Indianapolis.

					The first set of officers under Charter was as follows:
					
						CALVIN W. BUSH, Worshipful Master.
						JAMES HOLMES, Senior Warden.
						JOHN J. VALDENAIRE, Junior Warden.
						JOHN BRADSHAW, Secretary.
						JAMES RAPSON, Treasurer.



						

						JOHN C. DEHN, Senior Deacon.
						EDWARD J. GRIFFITH, Junior Deacon.
						BENJAMIN A. BROWN, Steward.
						DANIEL C. HUFFMAN, Steward.
						JOHN W. ARMSTRONG, Tyler.
					
					The Lodge has had four Worshipful Masters from its organization in 1896 to the present
						time—Calvin W. Bush, from the organization to December 27th, 1898; John J.
						Valdenaire, from 1898 to 1899; William P. Messersmith, from 1899 to 1900 and from 19o0
						to 19o2, and John C. Dehn, the incumbent for the term just closed. The Secretaries since
						the organization have been but two —John Bradshaw, from the organization to 1898,
						and Edgar A. Leftwich, from 1898 to the present time.
					The present officers of Veritas Lodge are:
					
						WILLIAM P. MESSERSMITH, Worshipful Master.
						DAVID F. RINGER, Senior Warden.
						FREDERICK BROMMER, JR., Junior Warden.
						JOHN J. VALDENAIRE, Treasurer.
						EDGAR A. LEFTWICH, Secretary.
						CHARLES F. CLAMPITT, Senior Deacon.
						WILLIAM H. QUANDT, Junior Deacon.
						AZARIAH NEWHOUSE, Steward.
						ELIAS N. SHIMER, Steward.
						CHARLES L. CLARK, Tyler.
					
					
						WORSHIPFUL MASTERS OF VERITAS LODGE FROM THE ORGANIZATION IN
							1896 TO 1902.
						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							4
							Calvin W. Bush
							Feb. 25, 1896, to Dec. 27, 1898
						
						
							1
							John J. Valdenaire
							Dec. 27, 1898, to Dec. 27, 1899
						
						
							1
							William P. Messersmith
							Dec. 27, 1899, to Dec. 27, 1900
						
						
							1
							John C. Dehn
							Dec. 27, 1900, to Dec. 5, 1901
						
						
							1
							William P. Messersmith
							Dec. 5, 1901, to —, 1902
						
					



					
					
						CALVIN W. BUSH, First Worshipful Master of Veritas Lodge.
					


					
					

					
						SECRETARIES OF VERITAS LODGE FROM THE ORGANIZATION IN 1896 TO
							1902.

						
							Number of Consecutive Terms
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						

						
							4
							John Bradshaw
							Feb. 25, 1896, to Dec. 27, 1898
						
						
							4
							Edgar A. Leftwich
							Dec. 27, 1898, to —, 1902
						
					

					MEMBERS OF VERITAS LODGE JANUARY 1, 1902.
					
						Armstrong, John N.
						Attridge, Oliver H.
						Anderson, Matt A.
						Brommer, Frederick, Jr.
						Brown, Benjamin A.
						Brown, J. W.
						Brown, David
						Bloom, Henry
						Bradshaw, John A.
						Bush, Calvin W.
						Clampitt, Charles F.
						Clark, Benjamin A.
						Clark, Charles
						Clark, George W.
						Cropper, James
						Curson, John F.
						Dehn, John C.
						Deeter, H. L.
						Engle, Silas P.
						Eusey, J. A.
						Farber, Conrad
						Fauvre, Frank M.
						Fleshman, Douglass W.
						Gatchell, Theodore
						Glaser, Albert
						Griffith, Edward J.
						Grim, Louis
						Holmes, Matt.
						Holmes, James

						Hessong, Elmer V.
						Hall, W. E.
						Johnson, William H.
						King, William
						Kneer, Charles J.
						Leftwich, Edgar A.
						Leftwich, Perry C.
						Manning, Chauncey
						Messersmith, William P.
						Murphy, E. C.
						Newhouse, Azariah
						Pitts, J. H.
						Poehler, Louis F.
						Quandt, William H.
						Rapson, James
						Ringer, David F.
						Schellenberg, Rudolph
						Schwartz, James
						Shimer, Elise N.
						Silvey, Pressley
						Slider, Charles E.
						Smith, Louis J.
						Strayer, Andrew E.
						Trotcky, Solomon
						Traub, Jacob J.
						Valdenaire, John J.
						Williams, Oscar
						Winenow, John H.
					
					Total membership—57.
				

				
					

					CONCORDIA LODGE, NO. 178, FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS. (Charter
						arrested September 19th, 1865.)
					Concordia Lodge was organized under dispensation April 25th, 1854, its charter
						membership consisting of Christopher G. Werbe, Worshipful Master; Dominique Hartreiter,
						Senior Warden; Joseph Langbein, Junior Warden; Jacob Rinkel, Treasurer; Louis F. Werbe,
						Secretary; George F. Meyer, Senior Deacon; Charles Bals, Junior Deacon, and Charles
						John, Tyler. It was continued under dispensation until May 31st, 1855, when it was
						chartered as No. 178, with the same list of officers. It worked as a Lodge until
						September ,I9th, 1865, its membership varying from twenty to twenty-nine Master Masons,
						the latter being its total at the time of the termination of its existence on the date
						above named by arrest of its charter on account of internal dissensions.
					
						WORSHIPFUL MASTERS OF CONCORDIA LODGE FROM THE ORGANIZATION IN
							1854 TO ARREST OF CHARTER IN 1865.

						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						

						
							3
							Christopher G. Werbe
							April 25, 1854, to June, 1856
						
						
							2
							George F. Meyer
							June, 1856, to June, 1858
						


						

						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							1
							Charles F. Bals
							June, 1858, to June, 1859
						
						
							1
							George F. Meyer
							June, 1859, to June 1860
						
						
							1
							Franz Damme
							June, 1860, to June 1861
						
						
							1
							George F. Meyer
							June, 1861, to June 1862
						
						
							1
							Adam Spreng
							June, 1862, to June 1863
						
						
							1
							George F. Meyer
							June, 1863 to June 1864
						
						
							*1½
							Joseph Bernauer
							June, 1864, to Sept., 1865
						
					

					
						SECRETARIES OF CONCORDIA LODGE FROM THE ORGANIZATION IN 1854 TO
							ARREST OF CHARTER IN 1865.
						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							5
							Louis F. Werbe
							April 25, 1854, to June, 1858
						
						
							1
							Christopher G. Werbe
							June, 1858, to June, 1859
						
						
							2
							Albert Reisner
							June, 1859, to June, 1861
						
						
							2
							August Breunninger
							June, 1861, to June, 1863
						
						
							1
							Charles Lauer
							June, 1863, to June, 1864
						
						
							*½
							August Breunninger
							June, 1864, to Sept., 1865
						
					
					*Lodge ceased to exist
						September 19th, 1865.
				

				
					

					TEUTONIA LODGE, NO. 178, FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS. (Charter surrendered
						November 13th, 1871.)
					Teutonia Lodge was organized under dispensation November i6th, 1865, by Adam Spreng,
						George Brinkmeyer, Louis Helle, Joseph Bernauer, Christian Karle, Frederick Kissel,
						George F. Klare, Frederick Meyer, Jacob Roos, John C. Brinkmeyer, Charles Dehne,
						Gottlieb Kamm, H. Hahn, Charles Lauer, H. Welburg and J. Matweg, who had been members of
						Concordia Lodge previous to its disbandment. It continued under dispensation until May
						29th, 1867, when it was chartered as Teutonia Lodge, No. 178, being, by request of its
						members, given the same number that had previously belonged to Concordia Lodge. It seems
						never to have elected any candidates, and its membership gradually decreased in number
						by dimission until it finally became less than that required by the Grand Lodge law, and
						its charter was consequently surrendered November 13th, 1871.



					
					
						WORSHIPFUL MASTERS OF TEUTONIA LODGE FROM THE ORGANIZATION IN
							1865 TO SURRENDER OF CHARTER IN 1871.
						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							3
							John C. Brinkmeyer
							Nov. 16, 1865, to June, 1868
						
						
							*3
							Charles Dehne
							June, 1868, to Dec., 1870
						
						
							†l
							Charles Lauer
							Dec., 1870, to Nov., 1871
						
					
					
						SECRETARIES OF TEUTONIA LODGE FROM THE ORGANIZATION IN 1865 TO
							SURRENDER OF CHARTER IN 1871.
						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							*6
							Louis Helle
							Nov. 16, 1865, to Dec., 1870
						
						
							†l
							Charles Dehne
							Dec., 1870, to Nov., 1871
						
					
					*The law changing date of
						annual election went into effect at the December stated meeting of 1869, thereby
						reducing to six months the terms of the officers previously elected in June.
					†Lodge ceased to exist
						November 13th, 1871.

				

				
					

					MASONIC RELIEF BOARD OF INDIANAPOLIS.
					The Masonic Relief Board was organized January 24th, 1868, by Benjamin C. Darrow, John
						M. Bramwell, John C. Brinkmeyer, William M. Davis and George S. Warren, who as
						Worshipful Masters were respectively representing Center, Marion, Teutonia, Capital City
						and Ancient Landmarks Lodges. The object of the organization was to afford necessary
						relief to Masons residing or sojourning in Indianapolis whose claims for Masonic charity
						were not derived through membership in any local Masonic body. The officers selected
						upon the organization of the Board were John M. Bramwell, President, and George S.
						Warren, Secretary. The Board dissolved April 12th, 1878, but was reorganized one year
						later with Austin H. Brown serving as President. The following year Willis D. Engle was
						elected Secretary, in which capacity he has served continuously ever since. The Board
						now embraces in its membership all the Masonic Lodges in Indianapolis, except Veritas,
						No. 608, and is sustained by a per capita tax of twenty cents per annum levied upon the
						membership of the various contributing Lodges. This excellent association, organized in
						the interest of mutual charity work, has reduced the 
						
							WILLIAM H. MIEIER.
						
						
							VESTAL W. WOODWARD.
						
						
							ALEXANDER W. THOMSON.
						
						
							JOHN E. MILNOR.
						
						
							JOHN J. Booz.
						
						
							PRESIDENTS OF THE MASONIC RELIEF BOARD In recent years.
						
						
						 question of local Masonic relief to a worthy and most
						creditable system by which the deserving needy are assisted and the frauds and
						pretenders discovered.
					The present officers of the Masonic Relief Board are:
					
						Joan J. Booz, President.
						Lo Na G. SOHOLL, Vice-President.
						WILLIS D. ENGLE, Secretary and Treasurer.
					
					DIRECTORS.

					
						HENRY C. SMITHER, W. M. Center Lodge No. 23.
						JOHN J. Booz, W. M. Marion Lodge No. 35.
						ALBERT SMITH, W. M. Capital City Lodge No. 312.
						HOMER A. SAMPSELL, W. M. An. Landmarks Lodge No. 319.
						LOGAN G. SCHOLL, W. M. Mystic Tie Lodge No. 398.
						JOHN W. FOLGER, W. M. Oriental Lodge No. 500.
						ELMER F. GAY, W. M. Pentalpha Lodge No. 564.
						GEORGE W. MAZE, W. M. Logan Lodge No. 575.
					

					
						RESIDENTS OF THE MASONIC RELIEF BOARD FROM THE ORGANIZATION IN
							1868 TO 1902.
						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							1
							John M. Bramwell
							Jan. 24, 1868, to Jan., 1869
						
						
							3
							John Caven
							Jan., 1869, to Jan., 1872
						
						
							1
							Joseph Solomon
							Jan., 1872, to Jan., 1873
						
						
							1
							Joseph W. Smith
							Jan., 1873, to Jan., 1874
						
						
							1
							William M. Davis
							Jan., 1874, to Jan., 1875
						
						
							1
							Thomas C. Rout
							Jan., 1875, to Jan., 1876
						
						
							1
							Robert L. Browning
							Jan., 1876, to Jan., 1877
						
						
							1
							John Van Stan
							Jan., 1877, to April, 1878
						
						
							*2
							Austin H. Brown
							April, 1879, to Jan., 1881
						
						
							1
							James A. Iliff
							Jan., 1881, to Jan., 1882
						
						
							1
							Jacob W. Smith
							Jan., 1882, to Jan., 1883
						
						
							1
							Hugh J. Drummond
							Jan., 1883, to Jan., 1884
						
						
							1
							William H. Short
							Jan., 1884, to Jan., 1885
						



						

						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							2
							Martin H. Rice
							Jan., 1885, to Jan., 1887
						
						
							1
							Roger Parry
							Jan., 1887, to Jan., 1888
						
						
							1
							William C. Langdon
							Jan., 1888, to Jan., 1889
						
						
							2
							John W. Staub
							Jan., 1889, to Jan., 1891
						
						
							1
							Robert G. Wellman
							Jan., 1891, to Jan., 1892
						
						
							2
							Thomas G. Harrison
							Jan., 1892, to Jan., 1894
						
						
							1
							William H. Meier
							Jan., 1894, to Jan., 1895
						
						
							2
							Alex. W. Thompson
							Jan., 1895, to Jan., 1897
						
						
							1
							Vestal W. Woodward
							Jan., 1897, to Jan., 1898
						
						
							1
							William E. English
							Jan., 1898, to Jan., 1899
						
						
							1
							John W. Staub
							Jan., 1899, to Jan., 1900
						
						
							1
							John E. Milnor
							Jan., 1900, to Jan., 1901
						
						
							1
							Elmer A. Smythe
							Jan., 1901, to Jan., 1902
						
						
							1
							John J. Booz
							Jan., 1902, to —, 1903
						
					
					*The Board dissolved April
						12th, 1878, but was reorganized April 25th, 1879.



					
						SECRETARIES OF THE MASONIC RELIEF BOARD FROM THE ORGANIZATION
							IN 1868 TO 1902.
						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							½
							George S. Warren
							Jan. 24, 1868, to July, 1868
						
						
							4½
							John M. Bramwell
							July, 1868, to Jan,, 1873
						
						
							2
							Joel O. Martin
							Jan., 1873, to Jan., 1875
						
						
							*1½
							Richard M. Smock
							Jan., 1875, to April, 1876
						
						
							†2
							Willis D. Engle
							April, 1876, to March, 1878
						
						
							‡½
							William Gray
							March, 1878, to April, 1878
						
						
							1
							John A. Henry
							April, 1879, to Jan., 1880
						
						
							23
							Willis D. Engle
							Jan., 1880, to —, 1903
						
					
					*Resigned and was succeeded
						by Willis D. Engle.
					†Resigned and was succeeded
						by William Gray.
					‡The Board dissolved April
						12th, 1878, but was reorganized April 25th, 1879.

				

				
				
					REV. WILLIS D. ENGLE, Secretary of Masonic Relief Board and Masonic
						Burial Association for the past twenty-two years. Grand Chaplain of the Grand
						Lodge, 1900. 
				

				
				
					

					MASONIC BURIAL GROUND ASSOCIATION OF INDIANAPOLIS.
					The Masonic Burial Ground Association was organized May 8th, 1873, by Joseph Solomon,
						Harry C. McFarland, Abraham L. Stoner, Horatio L. Nelson and Joseph W. Smith,
						respectively Worshipful Masters of Center, Marion, Capital City, Ancient Landmarks and
						Mystic Tie Lodges, which they represented. The association was organized for the purpose
						of purchasing and maintaining a burial ground for Masons who were not owners of
						individual burial lots. A lot having a capacity for about three hundred graves was
						purchased in Crown Hill Cemetery at an original cost of twenty-five hundred dollars, in
						which some forty-seven interments have since been made. Four years ago the five
						incorporating Lodges offered to admit any of the other Masonic Lodges of Indianapolis to
						membership upon the payment of the principal sum of five hundred dollars, the same to be
						applied toward a fund for the erection upon the lot of a suitable monument to deceased
						Masons. This offer has been accepted by Pentalpha Lodge, No. 564, which is now a member
						of the association.

					The officers under the original organization were Joseph 
						Solomon, President, and Joel O. Martin, Secretary. No records were preserved from that
						time until I880, when Erastus J. Hardesty was elected President and Willis D. Engle
						Secretary, and the latter has served continuously as Secretary since that time.
					The present officers of the Masonic Burial Ground Association are:
					
						ELMER F. GAY, President.
						HENRY C. SMITHER, Vice-President.
						WILLIS D. ENGLE, Secretary and Treasurer.
					
					DIRECTORS.
					
						HENRY C. SMITHER, W. M. Center Lodge No. 23.
						JOHN J. Booz, W. M. Marion Lodge No. 35.
						ALBERT SMITH, W. M. Capital City Lodge No. 312.
						HOMER A. SAMPSELL, W. M. An. Landmarks Lodge No. 319.
						LOGAN G. SCHOLL, W. M. Mystic Tie Lodge No. 398.
						ELMER F. GAY, W. M. Pentalpha Lodge No. 564.
					

					
						PRESIDENTS OF THE MASONIC BURIAL GROUND ASSOCIATION FROM THE
							ORGANIZATION IN 1873 TO 1902.
						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							1
							Joseph Solomon
							May 8, 1873, to January, 1874
						
						
							*
						
						
							1
							Erastus J. Hardesty
							January, 1880, to January, 1881
						
						
							2
							Jacob W. Smith
							January, 1881 to January, 1883
						
						
							1
							Hugh J. Drummond
							January, 1883, to January, 1884
						
						
							1
							William S. Rich
							January, 1884, to January, 1885
						
						
							1
							James A. Iliff
							January, 1885. to January, 1886
						


						
						
							JOHN J. CURTIS.
						
						
							CHARLES C. GILMORE.
						
						
							WILLIAM R. EVANS.
						
						
							CHARLES P. LESH.
						
						
							FRANK H. SCHOPPENHORST.
						
						
							PRESIDENTS OF THE MASONIC BURIAL GROUND ASSOCIATION In recent years.
						




						
						


						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						

						
							2
							Roger Parry
							January, 1886, to January, 1888
						
						
							2
							Willis R. Miner
							January, 1888, to January, 1890
						
						
							1
							John L. McMaster
							January, 1890, to January, 1891
						
						
							1
							William S. Rich
							January, 1891, to January, 1892
						
						
							2
							Charles P. Lesh
							January, 1892, to January, 1894
						
						
							1
							Wilbur F. Browder
							January, 1894, to January, 1895
						
						
							2
							Charles C. Gilmore
							January, 1896, to January, 1898
						
						
							1
							William R. Evans
							January, 1898, to January, 1899
						
						
							1
							John W. Staub
							January, 1899, to January, 1900
						
						
							1
							Frank H. Schoppenhorst
							January, 1900, to January, 1901
						
						
							1
							Elmer A. Smythe
							January, 1901, to January, 1902
						
						
							1
							Elmer F. Gay
							January, 1902, to —, 1903
						
					
					*No records were preserved
						from the close of 1873 to the beginning of 1880, therefore, the Presidents during that
						period are unknown.

					

						SECRETARIES OF THE MASONIC BURIAL GROUND ASSOCIATION FROM
							THE ORGANIZATION IN 1873 TO 1902.
						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							1
							Joel O. Martin
							May 8, 1873, to January, 1874
						
						
							*
						
						
							23
							Willis D. Engle
							January, 1880, to —, 1903
						
					


					*No records were preserved
						from the close of 1873 to the beginning of 1880, therefore, the Secretaries during that
						period are unknown.
				

				
					

					INDIANAPOLIS CHAPTER, NO. 5, ROYAL ARCH MASONS.
					The first regular communication of Indianapolis Chapter, No. 5, was held Tuesday
						evening, February 3d, 1846, Anno Lucis 5846, under the following dispensation:
					"This dispensation to continue in force until the next annual meeting of our Grand
						Chapter, to be held in Indianapolis on the fourth Monday of May next, unless sooner
						revoked, and I do hereby appoint Companion John L. Richmond to be the High Priest;
						Companion Henry Colestock, King; Companion Charles I. Hand, Scribe of the said Chapter.
						Given under my hand and private seal at Logansport this eighth day of January, A. D.
						1846, and of Royal Arch Masonry 2376.
					"ISAAC BARTLETT,[Seal.]"Deputy Grand High
							Priest."Attest: DAVID P. HOLLOWAY,"Grand Secretary of Grand Chapter of
							Indiana."
					Following the presentation of the dispensation, the Chapter was opened in the degree of
						Mark Master in due 
						
							WILLIAM WIEGEL.
						
						
							WILLIAM R. EVANS.
						
						
							CHARLES C. GILMORE.
						
						
							WILLIAM W. THICKSTEN.
						
						
							THOMAS E. THIC(KSTEN.
						
						
							HIGH PRIESTS OF INDIANAPOLIS CHAPTER In recent years.
						
						
						 and ancient form, with the following Grand Officers in
						their respective stations:

					
						JOHN L. RICHMOND, Right Worshipful Master.
						HENRY COLESTOCK, Grand Senior Warden.
						CHARLES I. HAND, Grand Junior Warden.
						CUNNINGHAM S. RAMSAY, Master Overseer.
						JOHN H. SANDERS, Senior Overseer.
						JAMES L. HOGIN, Junior Overseer.
						J. H. SANDERS, Treasurer.
						JAMES WHITCOMB, Secretary.
						JAMES J. DRUM, Guard Pro Tem.
					
					A business committee, consisting of Companions Colestock, Drum and Ramsay, was
						appointed to procure furniture, a record book and other necessary requirements. A
						committee was also appointed to report a code of by-laws at the next meeting. The
						following officers were then selected by the Chapter for the remainder of the term:
					
						JOHN L. RICHMOND, High Priest.
						HENRY COLESTOCK, King.
						CHARLES I. HAND, Scribe.
						CUNNINGHAM S. RAMSAY, Captain of Host.
						JOHN H. SANDERS, Principal Sojourner.
						JAMES J. DRUM, Royal Arch Captain.
						JAMES L. HOGIN, Grand Master Third Veil.
						EDMUND BROWNING, Grand Master Second Veil.





						

						J. WHITCOMB, Grand Master First Veil.
						J. H. SANDERS, Treasurer.
						JAMES WHITCOMB, Secretary.
						GEORGE LOCKERBIE, Guard.
					
					It was resolved unanimously "that the regular meetings be held on the evenings of the
						second Tuesday in each and every month." The Lodge "was then called from labor to
						refreshment, until Tuesday evening, the 10th day of February, A. L. 5846."
					Of this first set of officers selected by the chapter, James Whitcomb, the Secretary,
						was at that time Governor of Indiana, and while filling that exalted office did not deem
						it beneath his dignity to serve as Secretary of Indianapolis Chapter. He was one of
						Indiana's greatest statesmen, and died while filling the office of United States Senator
						at Washington. His monument in bronze stands in Monument Place, Indianapolis, as the War
						Governor of Indiana during the Mexican war period.
					James L. Hogin, Grand Master of the Third Veil, was at that time a Past Grand Master of
						the Grand Lodge of Indiana, and later became Grand Master of Iowa. Charles I. Hand,
						Scribe, and Cunningham S. Ramsay, Captain of the Host, were both Past Masters of Center
						Lodge.
					At the next meeting, which was held on February 10th, Dr. John Evans, who afterward
						became Governor of Colorado, was proposed for membership. The only pro
						
							GOV. JAMES WHITCOMBFirst Secretary of Indianapolis Chapter. United States
								Senator from Indiana. Governor of Indiana.
						
						
						tem. officer at this meeting, according to the minutes,
						was W. I. Silvers, who acted as Junior Overseer, although no mention was made of Guard
						Lockerbie in the minutes. On March 10th George Lockerbie appears in the record for the
						first time as present and occupying his station as Guard, and John Evans was declared
						elected to receive the degrees. That revered Father of Indiana Masonry, William Hacker,
						was proposed at this meeting, as was also William Quarles, one of the most distinguished
						lawyers of that day. On March 13th John Evans was "advanced" to the degree of Mark
						Master. April 14th John Greer, a Master Mason of Center Lodge, was proposed, and William
						Hacker and William Quarles were elected. William Hacker was advanced to the degree of
						Mark Master at the same meeting, and at the following meeting, held on April I6th,
						William Quarles was likewise duly advanced. At the meeting of May 1st John Evans and
						William Quarles again appeared and were "exalted" to the Royal Arch Degree. John Cain,
						an equally well-known citizen, who was once Postmaster of Indianapolis, was proposed for
						membership at this meeting. On May 14th Hon. Abel C. Pepper, of Rising Sun, a prominent
						Indianian of that period, was present and acted as High Priest Pro Tem. He was a Past
						Grand Master of the Grand Lodge at the time, and the following year was elected Grand
						High Priest of the Grand Chapter, serving four consecutive terms. At this meeting  Hon. David Wallace, who from 1837 to 1840 was Governor of
						Indiana, was proposed for the degrees.
					On May 26th William Hacker and the Hon. David Kilgore, who later represented the Muncie
						district in Congress, were both exalted to the Royal Arch degree. The Charter of
						Indianapolis Chapter bears the date May 26th, 1846, but no mention of the Charter
						appears in the records of this date.
					The Chapter was at this time a tenant of Center Lodge, No. 23, Free and Accepted
						Masons, as shown by the minutes of this meeting.
					At the regular meeting convened on May 3oth the following officers were duly elected
						and installed for the ensuing year :
					
						BENJAMIN F. KAVENAUGH, High Priest.
						JOHN CAIN, King.
						WILLIAM QUARLES, Scribe.
						JAMES J. DRUM, Treasurer.
						EDMUND BROWNING, Secretary.
						JOHN L. RICHMOND, Captain of Host.
						JOHN H. SANDERS, Principal Sojourner.
						JOHN EVANS, Royal Arch Captain.
						JOHN GREER, Grand Master Third Veil.
						WILLIAM HACKER, Grand Master Second Veil.
						JAMES L. HOGIN, Grand Master First Veil.
						CHARLES I. HAND, Guard.
					
					At the last meeting held during the first year of 
						existence, December i6th, 1846, a resolution was adopted declaring that thereafter the
						degrees in Indianapolis Chapter would be conferred free of charge on all ministers of
						the Gospel. From this time on to I870 Indianapolis Chapter, bearing upon her rolls the
						names of some of the most distinguished men and Masons known to the history of Indiana,
						occupied the field of Capitular Masonry in Indianapolis alone and filled it most
						worthily until the continued growth of the organization finally led to the establishment
						of Keystone Chapter early in September of 1870.
					The present officers of Indianapolis Chapter are:
					
						THOMAS E. THICKSTEN, High Priest.
						FRED M. BAUER, King.
						GEORGE H. MUELLER, Scribe.
						CHARLES C. GILMORE, Treasurer.
						TOM ODDY, Secretary.
						JOHN J. Booz, Captain of the Host.
						GEORGE BAUER, JR., Principal Sojourner.
						WILLIAM W. BOWMAN, Royal Arch Captain.
						LESLIE D. CLANCY, Grand Master 3d Veil.
						JAMES H. WITTY, Grand Master 2d Veil.
						HENRY REBESBERGER, Grand Master 1st Veil.
						JOSEPH BERNAUER, Guard.
						ERNEST F. KNODLE, Organist.
					
					
						HIGH PRIESTS OF INDIANAPOLIS CHAPTER FROM THE ORGANIZATION IN
							1846 TO 1902.
						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						

						
							1
							John L. Richmond
							Feb. 3, 1846, to May 30, 1846
						
						
							1
							Benj. F. Kavanaugh
							May 30, 1846, to June 25, 1847
						
						
							4
							Cunningham S. Ramsey
							June 25, 1847, to Dec. 5, 1851
						


						

						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							2
							Ephraim Colestock
							Dec., 1851, to Dec., 1853
						
						
							1
							Andrew M. Hunt
							Dec., 1853, to Dec., 1854
						
						
							1
							Francis King
							Dec., 1854, to Dec., 1855
						
						
							1
							Phineas G. C. Hunt
							Dec., 1855, to Dec., 1856
						
						
							1
							Moses Wolf
							Dec., 1856, to Dec., 1857
						
						
							9
							John M. Bramwell
							Dec., 1857, to Dec., 1866
						
						
							1
							William T. Clark
							Dec., 1866, to Dec., 1867
						
						
							1
							John M. Bramwell
							Dec., 1867, to Dec., 1868
						
						
							1
							Roger Parry
							Dec., 1868, to Dec., 1869
						
						
							2
							Benjamin C. Darrow
							Dec., 1869, to Dec., 1871
						
						
							3
							John Ebert
							Dec;, 1871, to Dec., 1874
						
						
							1
							Roger Parry
							Dec., 1874, to Dec., 1875
						
						
							3
							John Ebert
							Dec., 1875, to Dec., 1878
						
						
							1
							Isaac Thalman
							Dec., 1878, to Dec., 1879
						
						
							1
							Chauncey Aldrich
							Dec., 1879, to Dec., 1880
						
						
							2
							Roger Parry
							Dec., 1880, to Dec., 1882
						
						
							4
							Herman Weinberger
							Dec., 1882, to Dec., 1886
						
						
							1
							Roger Parry
							Dec., 1886, to Dec., 1887
						
						
							1
							William Wiegel
							Dec., 1887, to Dec., 1888
						
						
							3
							Roger Parry
							Dec., 1888, to Dec., 1891
						
						
							2
							WWm. Schoppenhorst
							Dec., 1891, to Dec., 1893
						
						
							1
							Henry Rebesberger
							Dec., 1893, to Dec., 1894
						
						
							1
							Roger Parry
							Dec., 1894, to Dec., 1895
						
						
							1
							Charles C. Gilmore
							Dec., 1895, to Dec., 1896
						
						
							1
							William W. Thicksten
							Dec., 1896, to Dec., 1897
						
						
							2
							William R. Evans
							Dec., 1897, to Dec., 1899
						
						
							1
							William E. English
							Dec., 1899, to Dec., 1900
						
						
							1
							William R. Evans
							Dec., 1900, to Dec., 1901
						
						
							1
							Thomas E. Thicksten
							Dec., 1901, to —, 1902
						
					

					
						SECRETARIES OF INDIANAPOLIS CHAPTER FROM THE ORGANIZATION IN
							1846 TO 1902.
						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							1
							James Whitcomb
							Feb. 3, 1846, to May 30, 1846
						
						
							1
							Edmund Browning
							May 30, 1846, to Oct. 13, 1846
						
						
							½
							William Sullivan
							Oct. 13, 1846, to March 3, 1848
						
						
							½
							James S. Harrison
							March 12, 1848, to Dec. 12, 1848
						
						
							3
							Francis King
							Dec. 12, 1848, to Dec. 12, 1851
						
						
							31
							Charles Fisher
							Dec. 12, 1851, to Dec. 15, 1882
						




						

						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							3
							John M. Bramwell
							Dec. 15, 1882, to Dec. 5, 1885
						
						
							2
							William Wiegel
							Dec. 4, 1885, to Dec. 2, 1887
						
						
							1
							Albert Izor
							Dec. 2, 1887, to Dec. 7, 1888
						
						
							9
							Hugh J. Drummond
							Dec. 7, 1888, to Dec. 3, 1897
						
						
							5
							Tom Oddy
							Dec. 3, 1897, to —, 1902
						
					

					MEMBERS OF INDIANAPOLIS CHAPTER JANUARY 1, 1902. 
					
						Abbett, Charles H.
						Barmm, C. E.
						Barnett, J. M.
						Barnes, W. H.
						Bates, C. A.
						Bauer, Fred M.
						Bauer, George, Jr.
						Beck, John A.
						Bennett, Theodore
						Bernauer, Joseph
						Birk, Martin
						Booz, E. G.
						Booz, John J.
						Bowman, William W.
						Brokaw, E. Z.
						Brown, Austin H.
						Bundy, John P.
						Bundy, Morris E.
						Carson, Louis O.
						Caven, John
						Chamness, Oscar L.
						Clancy, Leslie D.
						Cochran, William M.
						Collins, James L.
						Colip, E. H.
						Conlee, T. A.
						Curtis, John J.
						Drummond, Hugh J.
						DaShiel, Charles F.

						Ebert, John
						English, William E.
						Evans, E. E.
						Evans, William R.
						Falk, Fred K.
						Farley, Thomas
						Fatout, Hervey B.
						Fauve, A. E.
						Feibleman, Bert L.
						Furgason, Charles H.
						Gaylor, J. Oren
						Gilmore, Charles C.
						Gorham, Henry K.
						Haas, Joseph
						Hall, Charles D.
						Haynes, Horace F.
						Hedges, Edward W.
						Henry, Jacob
						Hinman, Jack J.
						Hollingsworth, George R.
						Hollingsworth, Jacob M.
						Holmes, H. F.
						Hudson, Charles L.
						Hugg, Martin M.
						Huhn, Peter
						Humphreys, David
						Hunt, William H.
						Izor, Albert
						Jackson, T. M.
						

						Johnson, Jesse T.
						Johnston, Samuel A.
						Jones, Charles E.
						Joseph, Gustave
						Joseph, M. H.
						Kelley, John B.
						Kile, S. C.
						Kline, Fred
						Knodle, Ernest F.
						Koss, William
						Lawler, W. H.
						Lemen, O. M.
						Lemon, Daniel A.
						Limbert, Charles A.
						Magennis, J. E.
						Magennis, James
						McDonald, W. B.
						Messenger, W. H.
						Miner, Willis R.
						Minton, E. C.
						Morse, T. J.
						Moser, Phillip
						Mueller, George H.
						New, Harry S.
						Niedlander, Allen O.
						Noland, Volney D.
						Obwald, Sam
						Oddy, Tom
						Oswald, A. S.
						Pangborn, William
						Parrott, Horace
						Parry, Roger
						Pasquire, Eugene
						Quandt, William H.
						Raschig, M. H.

						Rebesberger, Henry
						Riley, John W.
						Rubin, Jacob
						Schoppenhorst, William
						Schoppenhorst, Frank H.
						Schroder, Henry C.
						Selvage, W. J.
						Sharp, Stephen
						Slater, J. H.
						Smith, Albert
						Spafford, Thomas E.
						Spencer, Arnold F.
						Stephens, Samuel
						Stephenson, Charles E.
						Stout, Horace A.
						Thicksten, William W.
						Thicksten, Thomas E.
						Thomas, Walter K.
						Thorne, Charles E.
						Tracy, Charles E.
						Traub, George F.
						Tuttle, Ed. J.
						VanWie, Homer H.
						Wallace, William P.
						Webb, Charles P.
						Weinberger, Herman
						Wiegel, William.
						Williamson, James A.
						Williamson, O. E.
						Wise, Ralph M.
						Witty, James H.
						Wolf, Louis
						Wynne, Thomas A.
						Zimmerman, Chris
					
					Total membership—129.
				




				


				
					HUGIH O'NEAL MCVEY.
				

				
					FRANK H. HOVEY.
				

				
					WILLIAM J. McKEE.
				

				
					WILLIAM S. RICH.
				

				
					VESTAL W. WOODWARD.
				

				
					HIGH PRIESTS OF KEYSTONE CHAPTER In recent years.
				


				

				
					

					KEYSTONE CHAPTER, NO. 6, ROYAL ARCH MASONS.
					The dispensation for this chapter was issued by Harvey G. Hazelrigg, Grand High Priest
						of the Grand Chapter September 3d, 1870, there being twenty-four charter members,
						including Martin H. Rice, Joel O. Martin, John L. Mothershead, Nicholas R. Ruckle,
						Samuel F. Gray, George E. Townley, James A. Murray, George Cummings, William Oscar
						Stone, Luther R. Martini, Erastus J. Hardesty, Nathan Kimball, Daniel Morton, Horace F.
						Kenyon and John J. Palmer. The dispensation named Martin H. Rice as High Priest, Joel O.
						Martin as King, and John L. Mothershead as Scribe, and was accepted by the petitioners
						at a meeting held September 8th. The fee was fixed at thirty-five dollars and the dues
						at two dollars per annum. The first applicant who received the degrees was Julius C.
						Walk, followed by Henry C. Adams and Joseph W. Smith. A Charter was granted October
						20oth, 1870, and the first officers under it were installed October 28th, as
						follows:
					
						MARTIN H. RICE, High Priest.
						JOEL O. MARTIN, King.


						

						JOHN L. MOTHERSHEAD, Scribe.
						SAMUEL F. GRAY, Captain of Host.
						NICHOLAS R. RUCKLE, Royal Arch Captain.
						WILLIAM H. VALENTINE, Principal Sojourner.
						WILLIAM S. CONE, Grand Master Third Veil.
						GEORGE E. TOWNLEY, Grand Master Second Veil.
						GEORGE CUMMINGS, Grand Master First Veil.
						EPHRAIM HARTWELL, Secretary.
						JAMES A. MURRAY, Guard.
					

					Secretary Hartwell died in November, 1872, and was succeeded by William S. Cone, who
						served until December, 1875, when William C. Anderson was elected and served until
						April, 1882, when he resigned, Jacob W. Smith being selected to fill the unexpired term.
						William H. Smythe was then elected and served until the close of the year, when he was
						succeeded by Jacob W. Smith, who still fills the office.
					The meetings of the Chapter have always been held in Masonic Temple, except during its
						rebuilding, from January Ist, 1875, to May Ist, 1876, when they were held in the Aetna
						building on Pennsylvania street.
					The annual dues were increased to three dollars in October, 1876, but were reduced to
						two dollars January 1st, 1883, at which figure they still remain.

					

					The fee was reduced to thirty dollars January 23d, 1879, at which it has remained, with
						the exception of six months in 1898, when it was twenty dollars.
					The Chapter held two stated meetings each month from its organization until March,
						1883, since which time it has held but one stated meeting each month.
					The sufferers from the flood on the Ohio river were assisted by a donation of fifty
						dollars in 1883.
					There are but few incidents shown by the records of the Chapter outside of routine work
						of which Keystone has had its full proportion. Among the notable events was the visit,
						upon invitation by Terre Haute Chapter, in I885, when twenty companions of that city
						were the guests of Keystone Chapter and were royally entertained. The Chapter's career
						has been a prosperous one, the treasury always having been in a healthy condition and
						its membership steadily increasing, numbering at the present time one hundred and
						eighty.
					Among the distinguished members whose names have been borne upon the roll of Keystone
						Chapter may be noted Past Grand High Priest and Past Grand Master Martin H. Rice, Past
						Grand Master and Past Grand Commander Nicholas R. Ruckle, Past Grand Commander Henry C.
						Adams, Past Grand Commander Duncan T. Bacon, Judge Byron K. Elliott, Judge Robert W.
						McBride, General Nathan Kimball, General William J. McKee, ex-Mayor Thomas Taggart, Rev.
						William A. Quayle, Joseph W. Smith, Secretary Scottish Rite,  William H. Smythe, Grand Secretary Grand Lodge, Jacob W. Smith, Secretary
						Board of Trade, and other well-known citizens.

					The present officers of Keystone Chapter are:
					
						CHARLES L. HUTCHINSON, High Priest.
						HENRY T. CONDE, King.
						MARION CROSLEY, Scribe.
						ALBERT GALL, Treasurer.
						JACOB W. SMITH, Secretary.
						HUGH O'NEAL MCVEY, Captain of the Host.
						WILMER CHRISTIAN, Principal Sojourner.
						ELMER A. SMYTHE, Royal Arch Captain.
						BENJAMIN F. HORNEFIUS, Grand Master 3d Veil.
						BENJAMIN F. ROBERTS, Grand Master 2d Veil.
						SMITH T. NICHOLS, Grand Master 1st Veil.
						JOHN B. VANTILBURGH, Guard.
					

					
						HIGH PRIESTS OF KEYSTONE CHAPTER FROM THE ORGANIZATION IN 1870 TO
							1902.

						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						

						
							3
							Martin H. Rice
							Sept., 1870, to Dec., 1872
						

						
							3
							William H. Ireland
							Dec., 1872, to Dec., 1875
						
						
							3
							Samuel J. Hillman
							Dec., 1875, to Dec., 1878
						
						
							3
							Frank P. Woollen
							Dec., 1878, to Dec., 1881
						
						
							2
							Henry H. McGaffey
							Dec., 1881, to Dec., 1883
						
						
							2
							Jacob W. Smith
							Dec., 1883, to Dec., 1885
						
						
							1
							Nicholas R. Ruckle
							Dec., 1885, to Dec., 1886
						
						
							2
							Joseph W. Smith
							Dec., 1886, to Dec., 1888
						
						
							1
							William S. Rich
							Dec., 1888, to Dec., 1889
						
						
							1
							William J. McKee
							Dec., 1889, to Dec., 1890
						
						
							4
							Ahira R. White
							Dec., 1890, to Dec., 1894
						
						
							1
							Martin H. Rice
							Dec., 1894, to Dec., 1895
						
						
							1
							Hugh O'Neal McVey
							Dec., 1895, to Dec., 1896
						
						
							*1½
							Frank H. Hovey
							Dec., 1896, to June, 1898
						
						
							½
							William S. Rich
							June, 1898, to Dec., 1899
						
						
							1
							Vestal W. Woodward>
							Dec., 1899, to Dec., 1900
						
						
							2
							Charles L. Hutchinson
							Dec., 1900, to —, 1902
						
					

					*NDied June, 1898, and was
						succeeded by William S. Rich.



					
					
						CHARLES L. HUTCHINSON, Present High Priest of Keystone Chapter. Present
							Grand Treasurer of the Grand Commandery. Past Thrice Potent Grand Master of
							Adoniram Grand Lodge of Perfection.
					




					


					

					
						SECRETARIES OF KEYSTONE CHAPTER FaoM THEOoaNIZATION IN 1870 To
							1902.
						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							*3
							Ephraim Hartwell
							Sept., 1870, to Nov., 1872
						
						
							3
							William S. Cone
							Nov., 1872, to Dec., 1875
						
						
							†6½
							William C. Anderson
							Dec., 1875, to April, 1882
						
						
							½
							Jacob W. Smith
							April, 1882, to Dec., 1.882
						
						
							6
							William H. Smythe
							Dec., 1882, to Dec., 1888
						
						
							14
							Jacob W. Smith
							Dec., 1888, to —, 1902
						
					
					*Died November, 1872, and was
						succeeded by William S. Cone.
					†Resigned April, 1882, and
						was succeeded by Jacob W. Smith.

					MEMBERS OF KEYSTONE CHAPTER JANUARY 1, 1902.

					
						Adams, Bertram B.
						Adams, H. C.
						Almond, Enos A.
						Allen, Frank M.
						Allen, Granville G.
						Allison, Wallace S.
						Armstrong, E. J.
						Arthur, Charles E.
						Bacon, Duncan T.
						Bartholomew, W. I.
						Bassett, W. B.
						Billingsley, Denton F.
						Bohmie, John M.
						Bradford, Hunter
						Benepe, John L.
						Brigham, Charles
						Brigham, Arthur
						Browder, Wilbur F.
						Brown, Chalmers
						Brush, John T.
						Burke, W. H.
						Buchanan, Charles J.

						Bye, Benjamin F.
						Campbell, Eddy M.
						Cavanagh, Joseph R.
						Chapman, Edward K.
						Christian, Thomas J.
						Christian, Wilmer
						Clark, Chauncey H.
						Clemens, Theodore
						Cline, Lewis C.
						Coleman, Rome B.
						Collins, John E.
						Cockrum, John B.
						Conde, Henry T.
						Conduitt, Allen W.
						Cooley, Samuel M.
						Craig, William B.
						Cropper, James
						Crosley, Charles S.
						Crosley, Marion
						Cross, Charles M.
						Cumback, William, Jr.
						Curtis, James B.



						

						Daller, Albert
						Dalrymple, John M.
						Daly, Charles F.
						Dark, Charles E.
						Davis, William C.
						Dilks, J. H.
						Dissette, James I.
						Dixon, A. R.
						Dynes, Walton L.
						Eastman, Joseph
						Eastman, Thomas B.
						Elliott, Byron K.
						Epps, Harry G.
						Ewan, Albert O.
						Fletcher, Samuel H.
						Gall, Albert
						Gardner, Fred C.
						Gates, Harrie H.
						Gay, George A.
						Gladding, Nelson A.
						Glossbrenner, A. M.
						Goth, Herman A.
						Graves, E. M.
						Gray, Stephen
						Griffith, William G.
						Hall, Henry H.
						Hankins, Anthony M.
						Hawkins, Roscoe O.
						Hays, Franklin W.
						Hearsey, Henry T.
						Hillman, Samuel J.
						Holland, T. F.
						Holliday, Francis T.
						Hornefius, Benjamin F.
						Hornshu, Charles Fred
						Hovey, Oliver H.
						Howe, Perle G.
						Howell, Glenn E.
						Hughes, David C.
						Hunt, George E.
						Hutchinson, Charles L.
						Irwin, Clarence E.
						Isensee, Albert T.

						Johnson, Charles
						Johnson, Eudorus M.
						Kahn, David L.
						Keyser, George W.
						Kinney, Horace E.
						Knight, John
						Koehne, Armin C.
						Kregelo, Charles E.
						Lesh, Charles P.
						Lewis, Frank W.
						Lilly, James W.
						Long, Henry W.
						Loudon, George
						Lowe, Richard H.
						McBride, Robert W.
						McKee, William J.
						McVey, Hugh O'Neal
						Martin, Harry D.
						Martin, John
						Meyer, A. B.
						Meyer, Charles F.
						Morgan, John S.
						Moore, Edward D.
						Moore, W. Scott
						Morgan, Sylvester A.
						Morrison, Lewis E.
						Morrison, Samuel L.
						Mull, Cory
						Nethery, Joseph W.
						Nichols, Smith T.
						Pangborn, George W.
						Parry, D. M.
						Parry, St. Clair
						Parry, Thomas H.
						Paver, John M., Jr.
						Pearson, John R.
						Perkins, Julian W.
						Phelps, Walter S.
						Pierce, James E.
						Porter, John A.
						Potter, Joseph L.
						Pritchard, Evan H.
						Pryor, Harry A.




						

						Pugh, Finley B.
						Purman, Darius M.
						Randall, Theodore A.
						Raffensperger, H. C.
						Rainey, Harvey W.
						Read, Peter C.
						Reagan, John
						Rhine, William E.
						Rice, Martin H.
						Rich, William S.
						Richardson, W. W.
						Riebel, Fred
						Rinehart, Martin L.
						Roberts, Benjamin F.
						Robb, Joseph W.
						Russ, George
						Rutledge, T. C.
						Schmidt, William H.
						Scholz, Frederick J.
						Shafer, H. G.
						Sharpe, Joseph K., Jr.
						Sherman, Charles T.
						Simmons, Oliver M.
						Sipp, Benjamin F.
						Sloan, George W.
						Smith, Harry B.
						Smith, Jacob W.
						Smither, Henry C.
						Smythe, Donn V.

						Smythe, Elmer A.
						Smythe, William H.
						Spiegel, George M.
						Staub, John W.
						Stone, John
						Taggart, Thomas
						Taylor, Major
						Thomson, A. W.
						Thurber, William E.
						Townsend, E. E.
						Tully, Edwin M.
						VanCamp, Raymond P.
						VanHummell Henry
						VanTilburgh, John B.
						Wade, Frank P.
						Walk, Julius C.
						Watson, Joseph S.
						White, Ahira R.
						Wiley, Fred H.
						Wild, John F.
						Wiles, Frank M.
						Wilson, J. Russell
						Williams, C. P.
						Wocher, John
						Wood, Horace F.
						Woods, Ford
						Woodward, V. W.
						Young, Archibald A.
						Yountz, Manford D.
					
					Total membership—188.

				




				
					

					INDIANAPOLIS COUNCIL, NO. 2, ROYAL AND SELECT MASTERS

					At the first meeting of Indianapolis Council, No. 2, Royal and Select Masters, July
						24th, 1855, the following companions were present: Francis King, Andrew M. Hunt, L. R.
						Brownell, William Sullivan, T. Barbour, Henry Colestock, Isaac H. Roll, Moses Wolf and
						Companion George Keifer, Deputy Grand Puissant of the Grand Council of the State of
						Ohio. Companion Keifer caused the following dispensation to be read:
					"To all whom it may concern:
					"WHEREAS, the petition of our illustrious companions, L. R. Brownell, Francis King, J.
						W. Hall, Barton D. Jones, Henry Colestock, John F. Cox, W. J. Milliard, William
						Sullivan, J. J. Dunn, Moses Wolf and Andrew M. Hunt, asking for a dispensation to open
						and form a Council of Royal and Select Masons in the city of Indianapolis, Indiana,
						there being no Grand Council in the State of Indiana, has been presented to me, duly
						recommende and vouched for by Franklin Council, No. 14, under this jurisdiction;
					"Know ye, that I, John M. Barron, Grand Puissant of 
						
							HERMIAN WEINBERGER.
						
						
							A11IRA R. WHITE.
						
						
							WILLIAM SCHOPPENHORST.
						
						
							HENRY REBESBERGER.
						
						
							WILLIAM R. EVANS.
						
						
							ILLUSTRIOUS MASTERS OF INDIANAPOLIS COUNCIL In recent years.
							
						
						
						 the Grand Council of Royal and Select Masters of the
						State of Ohio, by virtue of the high powers in me vested, do grant this dispensation and
						do hereby appoint Companions Andrew M. Hunt first Illustrious Master, Francis King first
						Deputy Illustrious Master and L. R. Brownell first Principal Conductor of the Work,
						empowering them and their companions to open and form a Council of Royal and Select
						Master in the City of Indianapolis, State of Indiana, by the name and style of
						Indianapolis Council, No. —, fully authorizing them to confer the degrees. This
						dispensation to remain in full force until the next meeting or at the pleasure of
						Illustrious Companion Keifer. July I6th, 1855."
					The acting thrice Illustrious Grand Master then stated that the Council had been
						convened by order of Companion L. R. Brownell, who had been regularly appointed by the
						Grand Puissant of the State of Ohio to constitute this Council and install its officers.
						Companion Brownell then took the chair and read the following commission: 
					"To all to whom these presents come, greeting:
					"Know ye that I, John M. Barron, Grand Puissant of the Grand Council of Royal and
						Select Masters of the State of Ohio, reposing full confidence in the Masonic skill and
						integrity of our Illustrious Companion, L. R. Brownell, Past Thrice Illustrious Grand
						Master, constitute and do by these presents appoint him my proxy for me. The
						accompanying dispensation is to continue and  remain in
						full force until the next annual meeting of this Grand Council, at which time this
						dispensation must be returned, together with a copy of the proceedings and by-laws.
					"Given under my hand and private seal at Cottage Grove this I6th
							day of July, A. D. 1855. A. L. 5855.
							"JOHN M. BARRON, Grand Puissant."
					The Council was then called from labor to rest until the next morning, July 25th, when
						the following officers were installed by Companion L. R. Brownell:
					
						ANDREW M. HUNT, Illustrious Master.
						FRANCIS KING, Deputy Illustrious Master.
						L. R. BROWNELL, Principal Conductor of the Work.
						MOSES WOLF, Captain of the Guard.
						ISAAC H. ROLL, Treasurer.
						CHARLES FISHER, Recorder.
						HENRY COLESTOCK, Sentinel.
					
					At this meeting petitions for membership were received from William Sheets, Talbott
						Bullard, Max Glaser, Ellis L. Aker, George F. Meyer, George F. Henning; John D. Morris,
						John D. Defrees, James Sulgrove, John F. Gulick, Lytle Wiggins and Ephraim Colestock,
						all Royal Arch Masons and members of Indianapolis Chapter, No. 5. After these petitions
						were formally received and referred to the proper committees an emergency was declared,
						the ballot was passed and the candidates were  each
						declared elected to receive the degrees. They were then immediately severally introduced
						and the Royal and Select Masters'degrees conferred upon them. Deputy Illustrious Grand
						Master Keifer presided and conferred the degrees. The Illustrious Master appointed a
						Committee on By-Laws at this meeting, composed of Francis King, Charles Fisher and L. R.
						Brownell. The first Monday night of each month was fixed upon as the regular meeting
						night for business and work. Six dollars was the amount agreed upon to be paid for the
						degrees, and the dues were fixed at one dollar and fifty cents per annum. Before the
						close of the meeting petitions were also received from John S. Bobbs, Phillip W. Seibert
						and Stoughton A. Fletcher, which were referred to the necesary committees to report at
						the next stated meeting.
					The Council continued on the even tenor of its way under dispensation without anything
						of especial interest occurring, until the stated meeting of November 5th, 1855. On this
						occasion there were present:
					
						ANDREW M. HUNT, Illustrious Master.
						ELLIS L. AKER, Deputy Illustrious Master.
						L. R. BROWNELL, Principal Conductor of the Work.
						FRANCIS KING, Captain of the Guard.
						MAX GLASER, Treasurer Pro Tem.
						CHARLES FISHER, Recorder.
						HENRY COLESTOCK, Sentinel.
					
					There were also present Companions George F. Henning, 
						Barton D. Jones and George F. Meyer. After the minutes of the preceding meeting had been
						read and approved, the Council was duly and permanently chartered and instituted under
						the following Charter from the Grand Council of Ohio:
					"To all whom it may concern:
					"We, the Grand Council of Royal and Select Masters of the State of Ohio, convened and
						assembled in the city of Mansfield, Ohio, send greeting.
					WHEREAS, a petition has been presented to us from Companions Royal and Select Masters
						L. R. Brownell, Francis King, Barton D. Jones, T. H. Shall, Henry Colestock, John T.
						Cox, W. J. Millard, William Sullivan, J. J. Dunn, Andrew M. Hunt and Isaac H. Roll, all
						Royal and Select Masters, heretofore assembled together under a warrant of dispensation
						from the Grand Puissant, John M. Barron, under date July 16th, 1855, they therefore pray
						for a Charter extending and confirming unto them the rights and privileges of a
						regularly constituted Council of Royal and Select Masters; and,
					"WHEREAS, the aforesaid petitioners, having passed a proper term of probation and
						exhibited to this Grand Council satisfactory evidence that they have conducted
						themselves agreeably to ancient usage, the Constitution and By-Laws of this Grand
						Council and the general regulations for the government of Councils of Royal and Select
						Masters; now,
					"THEREFORE, be it known that we, the Grand Council 



					
					
						CHARLES FISHER, First Recorder of Indianapolis Council,
							Serving in that capacity for 28 years. Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge,
							1838.
					


					
					

					aforesaid, reposing special trust and confidence in the integrity, Masonic ability and
						well-known attachment of the aforesaid petitioners to the sublime principles of Masonry,
						and believing that the true interests of the institution will be promoted by granting
						the prayer of said petitioners, have constituted and appointed, and by these presents do
						constitute and appoint the said companions and their associates a regular and
						constitutional Council of Royal and Select Masters by the name, style and title of
						Indianapolis Council, No. 2, and we do hereby appoint Companion Andrew M. Hunt first
						Thrice Illustrious Grand Master, Companion Francis King first Deputy Illustrious Grand
						Master, and Companion L. R. Brownell first Principal Conductor of the Work, hereby
						granting unto them and their successors full power and authority to assemble together on
						all proper and lawful occasions as a legal Council within the city of Indianapolis, and
						to confer upon all good and worthy Royal Arch Masons who may apply for the same the
						several degrees of Royal and Select Masters; also to make choice annually of a Thrice
						Illustrious Grand Master, Deputy Illustrious Grand Master, Principal Conductor of the
						Work, and all other officers as are necessary for the due organization and proper
						government of a regular Council of Royal and Select Masters agreeable to ancient usage,
						to admit members, to make by-laws and ordinances for their own government and to do and
						transact all such matters and things as are proper and lawful to be done in such cases,
						and we do furthermore hereby declare the rank and precedence of  the said Council in the Grand Council and elsewhere to be from the I6th day
						of July, Y. D. 2855, and we do hereby require the aforesaid constituted Council to
						attend the Grand Council at their annual communications by their Thrice Illustrious
						Grand Master, Deputy Illustrious Grand Master and Principal Conductor of the Work, or by
						their proxies duly appointed. Also to keep a fair and regular record of all their
						proceedings and to lay them before the Grand Council when required to be presented in
						their annual returns, in the payment of such sums as may be appropriated for the support
						of the Grand Council; and, furthermore, we do hereby enjoin it upon the said
						Indianapolis Council to conform in all their doings to the Constitution and By-Laws of
						the Grand Council and the general regulations for the government of Councils of Royal
						and Select Masters; in failure whereof this Charter and the powers herein granted are to
						cease and be of no further validity.
					"In testimony whereof, we, the Grand Puissant, Deputy Grand Puissant, Grand Thrice
						Illustrious and Grand Principal Conductor of the Work, by virtue of the high powers and
						authority in us vested, have hereunto set our hands and caused the Seal of the Grand
						Council to be affixed at Mansfield, Ohio, this eighteenth day of October, Y. D.
						2855.
					"J. M. BARRON, Grand Puissant. "GEORGE KEIFER, Deputy Grand
							Puisaant. "G. STERMAN, Grand Thrice Illustrious.
							 "Y. M. PARKS, Grand Principal Conductor of Work.
							"Attest: JOHN D. CALDWELL, Grand Recorder."
					Hugh J. Drummond, who has long served Indianapolis Council as its Recorder, and to whom
						the author is under obligations for valuable assistance in preparing this sketch of
						Cryptic Masonry in Indianapolis, calls attention to the fact that Indianapolis Council
						is still operating under the old Charter granted by the Grand Council of the State of
						Ohio. In his communication to the author upon this subject he says:
					"I find that Shelbyville Council, No. 3, and Indianapolis Council were instituted at
						the same time, and not until after the Grand Council of the State of Indiana was
						organized does Indianapolis Council, No. 2, appear on record, and it may surprise some
						to know that Indianapolis Council, No. 2, has no Charter from the Grand Council of
						Indiana, but is still working under the old Ohio Charter."
					The present officers of Indianapolis Council are:
					
						CHARLES C. GILMORE, Illustrious Master.
						GEORGE H. MUELLER, Deputy Illustrious Master.
						JOHN J. Booz, Principal Conductor of Work.
						CHARLES L. HUTCHINSON, Captain of the Guard.
						MARTIN H. RICE, Treasurer.
						HUGe J. DBuMMoND, Recorder.
						JOHN B. VANTIBUeGH, Sentinel.
					


					

					
						ILLUSTRIOUS MASTERS OF INDIANAPOLIS COUNCIL FROM THE
							ORGANIZATION IN 1855 TO 1902.

						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							2
							Andrew M. Hunt
							July 24, 1855, to Jan. 7, 1856
						
						
							2
							Francis King
							Jan. 7, 1856, to Jan. 4, 1858
						
						
							2
							Moses Wolf
							Jan. 4, 1858, to Jan. 2, 1860
						
						
							1
							Francis King
							Jan. 2, 1860, to Jan. 7, 1861
						
						
							7
							John M. Bramwell
							Jan. 7, 1861, to Dec. 2, 1867
						
						
							2
							John Ebert
							Dec. 2, 1867, to Dec. 6, 1869
						
						
							3
							Roger Parry
							Dec. 6, 1869, to Dec. 2, 1872
						
						
							2
							John Ebert
							Dec. 2, 1872, to Dec. 4, 1874
						
						
							1
							Roger Parry
							Dec. 4, 1874, to Dec. 2, 1875
						
						
							3
							John Ebert
							Dec. 2, 1875, to Dec. 3, 1878
						
						
							4
							Chauncey Aldrich
							Dec. 3, 1878, to Dec. 4, 1882
						
						
							2
							Herman Weinberger
							Dec. 4, 1882, to Dec. 1, 1884
						
						
							8
							Roger Parry
							Dec. 1, 1884, to Dec. 5, 1892
						
						
							1
							Wm. Schoppenhorst
							Dec. 5, 1892, to Dec. 6, 1893
						
						
							1
							Herman Weinberger
							Dec. 6, 1893, to Dec. 2, 1894
						
						
							2
							Ahira R. White
							Dec. 2, 1894, to Dec. 5, 1896
						
						
							1
							Henry Rebesberger
							Dec. 5, 1896, to Dec. 6, 1897
						
						
							2
							William R. Evans
							Dec. 6, 1897, to Dec. 2, 1899
						
						
							1
							William E. English
							Dec. 2, 1899, to Dec. 4, 1900
						
						
							1
							Willlam R. Evans
							Dec. 4, 1900, to Dec. 2, 1901
						
						
							1
							Charles C. Gilmore
							Dec. 2, 1901, to —, 1902
						
					

					
						RECORDERS OF INDIANAPOLIS COUNCIL FROM THE ORGANIZATION IN 1855
							TO 1902. 
						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							28
							Charles Fisher
							July 24, 1855, to Dec. 4, 1882
						
						
							3
							Chauncey Aldrich
							Dec. 4, 1882, to Dec. 7, 1885
						
						
							5
							William Wiegel
							Dec. 7, 1885, to Dec. 1, 1890
						
						
							2
							William W. Thicksten
							Dec. 1, 1890, to Dec. 5, 1892
						
						
							1
							Hugh J. Drummond
							Dec. 5, 1892, to —, 1902
						
					



					

					MEMBERS OF INDIANAPOLIS COUNCIL JAUARY 1, 1902.
					
						Adams, Henry C.
						Austin, William W.
						Bates, Charles A.
						Bundy, John P.
						Bernauer, Joseph
						Browder, Wilbur F.
						Bauer, Fred M.
						Booz, John J.
						Bowman, William W.
						Carson, Louis O.
						Cropper, James
						Caven, John
						Clark, Chauncey H.
						Cochran, William M.
						Chamness, Oscar L.
						Christian, Thomas J.
						Curtis, John J.
						Clancy, Lester D.
						DaShiel, Charles F.
						Drummond, Hugh J.
						Epps, Harry G.
						Ebert, John
						Evans, Ed. E.
						Eastman, Joseph
						Evans, William R.
						Eastman, Thomas B.
						English, William E.
						Farley, Thomas
						Fatout, Hervey B.
						Feibleman, Bert L.
						Fletcher, Samuel H.
						Fauve, Armin E.
						Gall, Albert
						Gilmore, Charles C.
						Goth, Herman A.
						Gaylor, J. Oren
						Holliday, Francis M.

						Hornshu. Charles F.
						Hall, Charles D.
						Hedges, Edward W.
						Hutchinson, Charles L.
						Hollingsworth, Jacob M.
						Humphreys, David
						Huhn, Peter
						Izor, Albert
						Jones, Charles E.
						Joseph, Gustave
						Koss, William
						Kinder, Thomas J.
						Kinney, Horace E.
						Koehne, Armin C.
						Lemon, Daniel A.
						Limbert, Charles H.
						McDonald, William B.
						Martin, John
						Meyer, Charles F.
						Miner, Willis R.
						Messenger, William H.
						Morgan, John S.
						Magennis, James, Sr.
						Magennis, James L.
						Mueller, George H.
						McKee, William J.
						McDonald, Daniel M.
						Oswald, Albert S.
						Obwald, Samuel
						Oddy, Tom
						Pasquire, Eugene
						Paver, John M.
						Pritchard, Evan H.
						Parry, Roger
						Parrott, Horace
						Phelps, Walter S.
						Raffensperger, Henry C.

						

						Rebesberger, Henry
						Rice, Martin H.
						Riley, John W.
						Schoppenhorst, William
						Schrader, Fred
						Selvage, William J.
						Smith, Jacob W.
						Schroder, Henry
						Smythe, William H.
						Smythe, Elmer A.
						Smythe, Donn V.
						Sharp, Stephen

						Staub, John W.
						Stephens, Samuel
						Stout, Horace A.
						Traub, George F.
						Taggart, Thomas
						Thicksten, William W.
						VanTilburgh, John B.
						White, Ahira R.
						Weinberger, Herman
						Webb, Charles P.
						Witty, James H.
						Wolf, Louis
					
					Total membership—97.
				




				
				
					ROGER PARRY.
				
				
					HENRY C. ADAMS.
				
				
					ALBERT GALL.
				
				
					MARTIN H. RICE.
				
				
					AUSTIN H. BROWN.
				
				
					EARLIEST EMINENT COMMANDERS OF RAPER COMMANDERY, Who are still
						members of the Commandery.
				



				
				
					

					RAPER COMMANDERY, NO. I, KNIGHTS TEMPLAR.

					The first step taken toward the establishment of chivalric Masonry in Indiana by the
						formation of Raper Commandery, No. I, Knights Templar, of Indianapolis was in May, 1847,
						when the Rev. William H. Raper, of Dayton, Ohio, a minister of the Methodist Church,
						Presiding Elder of his district and Grand Commander of Reed Encampment, No. 6, Knights
						Templar, of Dayton, visited the Capital City of Indiana, accompanied by Samuel Reed, of
						Cincinnati, who was at that time Grand Lecturer of the Masonic bodies of the State of
						Ohio. Reed Encampment, of which Sir Raper was the then honored presiding officer, had
						received its dispensation a little over a year previously, on January 3d, 1846
						(chartered October 22d, 1846), and had already acquired an established reputation
						throughout the West for the excellent manner in which its officers conferred the Orders
						of Masonic Knighthood. These two honored Sir Knights timed their missionary visit to
						Indianapolis so as to be present at the annual meetings of the Grand Lodge and Grand
						Chapter of Indiana, in order that they might take 
						advantage of the assembling together of the leading Masons of the State to impress upon
						them the great benefits to be realized by the introduction of the Order of Knights
						Templar into Indiana. They discussed the subject with Masons from every part of the
						State and the venerable Sir John R. Nickum, still an honored member of Raper Commandery,
						who was then a resident of Dayton, but was at that time in Indianapolis on business,
						vividly recalls a personal and Masonic conversation which he had with Sir Raper, whom he
						had not personally known before, but who was a customer of a bakery which he operated in
						Dayton, who, on being first introduced, received him with a warm brotherly grasp of the
						hand and the apt, appropriate and witty Scriptural greeting: "I have eaten of your
						bread, and yet I knew you not."
					That the mission of Sir Knights Raper and Reed was successful and the effect which they
						left behind them was lasting is evidenced by the fact that the following spring saw the
						first steps taken to the permanent establishment of the Order of Masonic Knighthood
						within the State.
					The records of "Raper Encampment, No. I," open with the following statement as to its
						birth and origin:
					"In the spring of the year 1848 certain Knights Templars resident in Indiana, that is
						to say:
					"Sir Abel C. Pepper, Sir James H. Pepper and Sir James Stirratt, of Rising Sun;
					"Sir Isaac Bartlett and Sir Frederick Fitch, of Logansport; 




					
					
						WILLIAM S. RICH.
					
					
						CHARLES L. HUTCHINSON.
					
					
						HENRY T. CONDE.
					

					
						WILLIAM SCHOPPENHORST.
					
					
						GEORGE A. GAY.
					
					
						LATEST EMINENT COMMANDERS OF RAPER COMMANDER. 1897 to 1902.
					




					
					

					"Sir Richard Sopris and Sir James W. Weaver, of Aurora;
					"Sir Benjamin F. Kavanaugh and Sir Francis King, of Indianapolis, and
					"Sir Caleb Schmidlapp, of Madison,
					being impressed with the great truths, that it hath pleased Almighty God in the
						creation of man to endow him with intelligence, moral and social powers, thereby fitting
						him for the cultivation in an eminent degree of 'peace on earth and good will to man;'
						and that the moral and religious teachings of the Order of Christian Knighthood, being
						derived from the sublime teachings of the Holy Scriptures, all breathe a spirit of
						brotherly love; enjoining upon the members the relief of the distressed and defenseless,
						the virtues of Faith, Hope and Charity, combined with Justice, Fortitude and Mercy;
					"And believing that the time had fully come for the establishment of an Encampment of
						Knights Templars in Indiana, thereby to diffuse more widely the heavenly precepts of our
						holy religion, which are so forcibly inculcated in the rituals of Christian Knighthood,
						the above named Knights Templars jointly petitioned Sir William B. Hubbard, the M. E.
						Grand Master of the General Grand Encampment of Knights Templars for the United States,
						resident in Columbus, in the State of Ohio, praying for letters of dispensation,
						authorizing them to open an Encampment of Knights Templars, and the appendant orders in
						the above named city.




					

					"And afterward, on the 17th day of May, in the year 1848, at a convention of the
						following Knights Templars, at the residence of Governor Whitcomb; that is to say, Sir
						Abel C. Pepper, Sir James H. Pepper, Sir James Stirratt, Sir Caleb Schmidlapp, Sir Isaac
						Bartlett, Sir Francis King, Sir Benjamin F. Kavanaugh, Sir Henry C. Lawrence, of
						Lafayette; Sir Seth Beers, of Madison; Sir William Hacker, of Shelbyville; Sir William
						H. Raper, Grand Commander of Reed Encampment, of Dayton, Ohio, and Sir Samuel Reed,
						Grand Lecturer of the Grand Encampment of Ohio; Sir Abel C. Pepper was called to the
						chair, and Sir James Stirratt was appointed Secretary.
					"And thereupon Sir Abel Pepper reported to the c convention that in the discharge of
						the duties heretofore assigned to him he had, by correspondence with M. E. Grand
						Commander William H. Raper, and with his prompt and timely assistance, and the
						recommendation, at his instance, of Reed Encampment, No. 6, in Ohio, procured from the
						M. E. General Grand Master of the General Grand Encampment of Knights Templars for the
						United States a dispensation."
					The dispensation, dated May 14th, 1848, was issued by William B. Hubbard, Grand
						Commander of the General Grand Encampment of Knights Templar for the United States, to
						Sir Knights Abel C. Pepper, Isaac Bartlett, Frederick Fitch, James W. Weaver, James
						Stirratt, Richard Sopris, James H. Pepper, Caleb 
						Schmidlapp, Francis King and Benjamin F. Kavanaugh, authorizing them to open and hold an
						Encampment of Knights Templar and Councils of the appendant Orders at Indianapolis,
						Indiana, to be called and distinguished by the name of "Raper Commandery, Number I," and
						appointing as officers Abel C. Pepper, Grand Commander; Isaac Bartlett, Generalissimo,
						and Frederick Fitch, Captain General, to serve as such until the second Tuesday in
						September, 1850. The record continues:
					"Be it further remembered that the name of said Encampment, as set forth in the
						dispensation, was proposed and unanimously agreed to by the Sir Knights thereof who were
						in attendance, in honor of the Rev. Sir Knight William H. Raper, most eminent Grand
						Commander of Reed Encampment, No. 6, in the State of Ohio, as a testimonial of their
						affection for his person and esteem for his character." The record of the convention
						then closes with the statement that "Sir Abel C. Pepper also reported that the services
						of Sir William H. Raper, of Dayton, and Sir Samuel Reed, of Cincinnati, Ohio, had been
						procured to assist in the organization of this Encampment, and both were present. The
						convention then adjourned sine die." Immediately thereafter, on Wednesday, May 17th,
						1848, at 7:30 o'clock, at the residence of Governor James Whitcomb, then Governor of
						Indiana, the first meeting of Raper Commandery was held, with the following Sir Knights
						acting as officers: Sir William H. Raper, Grand Commander; Benjamin F. Kavanaugh,
						Generalissimo; Abel C. Pepper, Captain  General; Samuel
						Reed, Senior Warden; James H. Pepper, Junior Warden; Isaac Bartlett, Treasurer; James
						Stirratt, Recorder; Caleb Schmidlapp, Standard Bearer; Henry C. Lawrence, Sword Bearer;
						William Hacker, Warder, and Francis King, Sentinel. Sir William H. Raper presented his
						proxy to act for the General Grand Commander in the institution of the Commandery.
						By-laws were then presented and adopted, which defined the duties of the officers very
						much as do those of the present time. The Recorder and Sentinel were relieved from the
						payment of all dues, and the petitions for membership were required to lay over one
						month; provided, however, that petitions could be received and acted upon at called
						meetings by unanimous consent of those present. It was also provided that no person
						should receive the Orders of Red Cross and Knight Templar on the same day, "except in
						cases of emergency which admit of no delay," which were to be determined by unanimous
						consent of all members present. The total fees for the degrees were fixed at twenty
						dollars, eight dollars for the degree of the Order of Red Cross and twelve dollars for
						the Orders of Knight Templar and Knight of Malta. The fee for affiliation was fixed at
						one dollar and the annual dues at one dollar. The by-laws could be amended by two-thirds
						of the members present or by a majority of all actual members, notices of proposed
						amendments having been given one month in advance. These by-laws were signed by all the
						charter members heretofore mentioned, except Richard Sopris, who seems never to  have acquired actual membership. Of these nine signers of
						the Charter, Frederick Fitch died in April, 1850; Francis King, Grand Secretary of the
						Grand Lodge, and for several years Recorder of the Commandery, died April 21st, 1865;
						Abel C. Pepper, James H. Pepper and James Stirratt dimitted May 24th, 1849, having been
						granted the recommendation of Raper Commandery for a dispensation for the institution of
						a Commandery at Rising Sun, Indiana; Caleb Schmidlapp dimitted January 23d, 18501 James
						W. Weaver dimitted May 25th, 185o, and his dues were remitted, as he had not enjoyed the
						privileges of the Commandery; Benjamin F. Kavanaugh, who was at the time presiding
						officer of the Commandery, dimitted January 25th, 1851, on account of his removal to St.
						Louis, Missouri, and Isaac Bartlett, who was Grand Master of the Grand Lodge in 1845,
						dimitted March 24th, 1852, being one of the petitioners for the institution of a
						Commandery at Lafayette.
					There are many residents of Indianapolis who, with the author, can in later years
						recall the residence occupied by Governor Whitcomb, where the first meeting of the
						Commandery was held. It was the official residence of the Governor and the property of
						the State, and was situated near the northwest corner of Illinois and Market streets. It
						was a two-story building, with large double parlors, and a broad side hall, and was well
						adapted for the temporary purposes of the Encampment. It was last used as the executive
						residence during part of the term of Governor Oliver P. Morton.


					

					At this first meeting petitions of James Whitcomb, David G. Rabb, Alexander C. Downey,
						Charles I. Hand and Thomas H. Gilmore were presented. The Encampment then adjourned
						until the next morning at 7:30 o'clock, and, promptly meeting at that unusual hour, the
						petitions of the Companions named were acted upon favorably, and they were created
						Knights of the Red Cross after the passage of the following resolution:
					"WHEREAS, several petitions have been presented and many more are hourly expected from
						Companions residing at a distance who are here in attendance at the annual communication
						of the Grand Lodge and the Grand Chapter of Indiana who are all well and favorably known
						to the members of this Encampment; and,
					"WHEREAS, Sir William H. Raper, Grand Commander of Reed Commandery, Dayton, Ohio, and
						Sir Samuel Reed, Grand Lecturer of the Grand Encampment of Ohio, are in attendance for
						the purpose of assisting in the organization of this Encampment and of imparting
						instructions;
					"Resolved, That we deem this such a case of emergency as will admit of no delay, and
						that the several Committees have leave to report instanter." Of the Companions who
						received the Red Cross on this occasion, whose names are thus recorded, Alexander C.
						Downey was the last to survive, having died at his home in Rising Sun, Indiana, on March
						28th, 1898, full of honors both Masonic and official. He was long Judge  of the Supreme Court of Indiana, and was Grand Master of
						the Grand Lodge for six terms, his last service being during the year i86o.
					May 19th the Encampment met again pursuant to adjournment at 7:30 A. M., and Austin W.
						Morris, James S. Brown, John Greer, Livingston Dunlap, Abram W. Harrison and William
						Quarles were elected and at once created Knights of the Red Cross. May 2oth a meeting
						was held at the same early hour, when the following additional Knights of the Red Cross
						were elected and created: John Evans, Abram Fay, Ebenezer Brown, William Sheets,
						Cunningham S. Ramsey, John H. Sanders and William Sullivan. In the evening of May 20oth
						the Encampment resumed its labors, and the Orders of Knight Templar and Knight Malta
						were conferred upon Governor James Whitcomb, who was the first person to ever receive
						that distinction in Raper Commandery. The Encampment then adjourned until Monday
						morning, May 22d, at 7:30 o'clock. Meetings were held at 7:30 A. M., May 22d, 23d, 24th,
						25th, 26th and 29th, when the Orders of Knighthood were conferred upon the several
						Companions previously named and others who were present in attendance upon the meeting
						of the Grand Lodge, giving the Encampment altogether a total of thirty-one members.
					Grand Commander Abel C. Pepper's "residence being at too inconvenient a distance for
						frequent attendance," according to the record, "he, on May 28th, made the  following appointments, filed in writing, until his further
						order in the premises:"



					
						BENJAMIN F. KAVANAUGH, Grand Commander pro tern.
						WILLIAM SHEETS, Generalissimo.
						JOHN H. SANDERS, Captain General.
						JAMES S. BROWN, Prelate.
						JOHN GREER, Senior Warden.
						CUNNINGHAM S. RAMSEY, Junior Warden.
						LIVINGSTON DUNLAP, Treasurer.
						JAMES WHITCOMB, Recorder.
						WILLIAM SULLIVAN, Standard Bearer.
						AUSTIN W. MORRIS, Sword Bearer.
						THOMAS DONNELLAN, Warder.
						ISAAC H. ROLL, First Guard.
						JOHN EVANS, Second Guard.
						ABRAM W. HARRISON, Third Guard.
						CHARLES I. HAND, Sentinel.
					
					The first stated meeting of the Commandery was held on June 7th, at which the foregoing
						appointments were officially announced.
					At this meeting votes of thanks were passed in recognition of the services rendered by
						Sir William H. Raper and Sir Samuel Reed, in the installation of the Commandery, and the
						sum of forty dollars heretofore paid by the Recorder to Sir Raper was approved and an
						additional ten dollars was voted to him. The sum of sixty dollars was voted to Sir
						Samuel Reed.




					

					
						HON. ABEL C. PEPPER, First Eminent Commander of Raper
							Commandery. Grand Master of the Grand Lodge, 1829. Grand High Priest of the
							Grand Chapter, 1847-1851.
					



					
					

					The new Encampment was now fully established and active in work, and the next step was
						to secure a permanent home for it, and upon August Ist, 1848, it held its first meeting
						in its new Asylum in the Norwood block, which was situated upon the northeast corner of
						Washington and Illinois streets, the site now occupied by the Claypool block. At this
						meeting Sir Samuel Reed was again present and "was allowed thirty-five dollars for his
						time, expenses, services and construction in and to his present visit to this
						Encampment." He was allowed twenty-six dollars for "a black silk robe and a white robe
						and black silk sash," furnished presumably for the Prelate. Sir Reed spent some days
						giving instructions to the Encampment and assisting in the work, acting as Grand
						Commander at several meetings in which the Orders were conferred upon a number of
						Companions, bringing the membership up to forty-three before his departure. Included in
						these were H. F. Wert, Hervey Bates, Sr., James L. Hogin, Past Grand Master of Indiana,
						and afterward Grand Master of Iowa; Hon. James Morrison, Hon. Michael G. Bright, General
						Laz Noble and Judge William W. Wick, at that time member of Congress from the
						Indianapolis district.
					October 24th the fee for the Orders was raised to twenty-five dollars, and on the
						afternoon of October 25th the Encampment participated in the ceremony of laying the
						corner-stone of Masonic Grand Lodge Hall, on which occasion nine banners, for which
						ninety dollars had been expended, were first used.


					

					Governor Whitcomb, having been elected United States Senator December 27th, 1848,
						resigned his office as Governor of Indiana, and at the meeting of January Ist, 1849,
						resigned his office as Recorder of Raper Encampment, and Francis King was appointed to
						succeed him. At this meeting the sum of five hundred dollars was ordered invested in
						stock of the new Masonic Grand Lodge Hall, and the following peculiarly worded political
						resolution was very properly and promptly laid upon the table:
					"Resolved, That it is incompatible with and a violation of the
						knightly and Christian courtesy and duty that the members of the magnanimous Orders of
						Knighthood with which we have been invested owe to each other for a Sir Knight to become
						the competitor of a Sir Knight in an election for an important State office, admitting
						the essential circumstances to be equal, except (?) that the Sir Knight opposed is the
						incumbent of the office, and that to the knowledge of the competitor the duties of the
						office had been well discharged and to the satisfaction of the public."
					The Encampment began the year 1849 with the names of forty-seven Sir Knights upon the
						roll of membership. May 24th, 1849, Abel C. Pepper having dimitted, Benjamin F.
						Kavanaugh was elected Grand Commander, and on May 26th a resolution was adopted
						indorsing the petition of Sir Knights for a dispensation for an Encampment to be located
						at Rising Sun, the home of Sir Knight  Pepper, which
						Encampment, however, does not appear to have ever been instituted.
					May 31st, 1849, "the Encampment met for the purpose of uniting with the Grand Lodge in
						procession, formed in proper order, with banners, etc., and proceeded to the street,
						where they were received by the Grand Lodge, and thence through several streets to the
						Second Presbyterian Church, whence, after the oration and other ceremonies, they
						returned to the Asylum," where it was "resolved that we, as the Sir Knights of Raper
						Encampment, hold in high esteem the distinguished services of our Most Worshipful Grand
						Master, Elizur Deming, and deem it but a just tribute to his high Masonic and moral
						worth to tender him the Order of Knighthood."
					A Charter was issued to " Raper Encampment, No. I," by the General Grand Encampment
						October I6th, 1850, and the Encampment was duly constituted, and the first corps of
						officers under the Charter was installed on November 7th by Abel C. Pepper, as proxy for
						the General Grand Master. The principal officers were as follows: Benjamin F. Kavanaugh,
						Grand Commander; William Sheets, Generalissimo; James S. Brown, Captain General, and
						Francis King, Recorder. These officers served until January, when their successors were
						elected, and were publicly installed in Masonic Hall, January 25th, 1851. Previously, on
						January I8th, the petition of Sirs J. E. Houser, William F. Pigeon, Homer T. Inman and
						seven others for a dispensation to establish an Encampment at  Greensburg, Indiana, with the three named as officers, was favorably
						recommended.
					May 27th, 1851, the Encampment formed in procession at I :30 P. M., and united with the
						Grand Lodge in a procession through a part of Washington street to the new Masonic Grand
						Lodge Hall, and there attended the ceremony of dedicating the same. The Encampment first
						occupied apartments in Masonic Hall in June, I851.
					June 25th, 1851, a petition for a dispensation to establish an Encampment in Fort
						Wayne, Indiana, was presented, but for some reason it was laid upon the table. March
						24th, 1852, a similar petition from Henry C. Lawrence, who was afterward Grand Master of
						the Grand Lodge and the first Grand Commander of the Grand Commandery of Indiana, Past
						Grand Master Elizur Deming, Abram Fry and nine others, asking for a dispensation to
						establish an Encampment at Lafayette, was indorsed and approved, with Sirs Lawrence,
						Deming and Fry recommended for the principal officers.
					December 29th, 1852, Alexander Franko, a well-known Hebrew and popular citizen of
						Indianapolis, was duly elected and constituted a Knight of the Red Cross and faithfully
						so remained for the rest of his life. Past Grand Commander Henry C. Adams, in an able
						and interesting address delivered a few years ago before his fellow Sir Knights of Raper
						Commandery, referring to this occasion, said: "We have every reason to believe that
						Raper Commandery stands alone and singular in this distinction of having a Knight of the
						Red Cross a firm adherent to the Jewish faith."




					

					Fort Wayne petitioners seem to have had a difficult time in obtaining permission to
						form a Commandery. Their petition heretofore spoken of was taken from the table January
						28th, 1852, and was refused. May 26th, 1852, the matter was again taken up, and it was
						resolved that when the blanks for officers were filled and a recommendation obtained
						from Reed Encampment, No. 6, at Dayton, Ohio, "this Encampment would recommend the
						petition." October 28th, 1852, the petition of Fort Wayne was again presented, with the
						recommendation of Reed Encampment, No. 6, and Northwest Encampment, No. 13, at Unity,
						Ohio, and on motion it was "resolved that with the kindliest feeling toward Sir Knight
						James Collins, but on account of the defective recommendation of Reed Encampment, No. 6,
						this Encampment declines to recommend said petition while Sir Collins' name is
						introduced as Grand Commander." However, Fort Wayne was eventually successful, for in
						1854 it was one of the four Commanderies that met at Lafayette and formed the Grand
						Encampment of Indiana.
					November I Ith, 1853, Dr. Alois D. Gall, a popular and well-known member of Raper
						Encampment, who had been appointed United States Consul to Antwerp, Belgium, and was
						about to depart for his post of duty, presented the Encampment with a beautiful and
						highly appreciated jewel. The Encampment in return presented l with a pocket Bible and a
						handsomely ornainted walking cane, at a special meeting called one week later. Edmund F.
						Gall, son of Doctor Gall, was, until  his death a few
						years ago, one of Raper Commandery's most active and beloved members, and another son,
						Hon. Albert Gall, ex-Treasurer of State and present Treasurer of the Commandery, was
						honored by the Commandery by being chosen its Eminent Commander in 1881, and is now, as
						he has always been, one of the foremost members in all that affects its well-being,
						progress and advancement. 
					September Ioth, 1853, Raper Encampment requested the General Grand Encampment to take
						steps looking to the organization of a Grand Encampment for Indiana on the fourth Monday
						of May following, and again, on March 29th, 1854, further action to that end was taken.
						Pursuant to this action and that of the other Indiana Commanderies, on May 16th, 1854, a
						convention to organize the Grand Encampment was held in Grand Lodge Hall at
						Indianapolis, and the organization under the warrant of the General Grand Encampment
						having been perfected at this meeting, the first regular session of the Grand Encampment
						of Indiana was thereafter duly convened at Lafayette on Wednesday, December 27th, 1854,
						with Henry C. Lawrence, of Lafayette Commandery, as Grand Commander, and Francis King,
						of Raper Commandery, as Grand Recorder. The Commanderies there represented and which
						formed the new Grand Body were Raper, No. I; Greensburg, No. 2; Lafayette, No. 3; Fort
						Wayne, No. 4, and New Albany, U. D., which soon after was chartered as No. 5.
					In April, 1857, Raper Commandery increased the fee for the Orders to thirty-seven
						dollars and fifty cents and  the affiliation fee to one
						dollar and fifty cents, and in November an assessment of two dollars and fifty cents per
						capita was made for the purpose of furnishing a banquet during the meeting of the Grand
						Encampment of that year.
					The word "Encampment," which had always been used previously, gave place to that of
						"Commandery" in the Raper records of March 6th, 186o, and "Raper Commandery" was
						regularly used thereafter.
					The previous formation of new Encampments or Commanderies by permission of Raper, and
						the continued formation of them after the institution of the Grand Encampment, very much
						lessened the membership of No. I, and the annual report of 186o shows a roster of but
						forty-seven names. During 1861 the civil war, commencing in April, engrossed the
						attention of men and Masons to the exclusion of everything else. There were but four
						meetings held during the year, the regular meetings of January, February and March and
						the annual meeting in December. But one applicant was knighted during the entire year,
						and a loss of three in the interim dropped the membership down to a total of forty-five.
						At the meeting in January a committee was appointed to confer with similar committees
						from other Masonic bodies of the city of Indianapolis relative to celebrating the next
						festival of St. John the Baptist, but nothing further seems to have been done in the
						matter.
					Although Raper Commandery had jurisdiction over about one-third of the State at this
						time, including both  Terre Haute and Evansville, its
						membership did not exceed fifty until 1864. At that time it received something of an
						impetus, and fourteen were knighted during the year, making the membership sixty-four at
						the beginning of 1865. The financial condition during these years was not apparently
						very prosperous, as the amount in the treasury was usually less than one hundred dollars
						and the stock previously subscribed to the Masonic Hall building had been gradually used
						up in paying rent for the rooms occupied as an Asylum.
					April 26th, 1865, the fee for the orders was made forty dollars, which was a decrease
						of ten dollars, the fee at some time previous evidently having been increased to fifty
						dollars, but the action does not appear anywhere of record.
					Consent was given January 3d, 1866, for the organization of a Commandery at Terre
						Haute, and August 29th for one at Greencastle. The Commandery participated in a Masonic
						picnic June 24th, 1868.
					September 9th, 1869, two venerable and revered Sir Knights, Hon. James Morrison and
						Past Grand Master and Past Grand Commander William Hacker, were elected honorary
						members, and a complimentary banquet was tendered to William Glenn, founder of the "New
						York store," of Indianapolis, on the eve of his departure for permanent residence in
						Europe. His successor in the management of the New York store, George A. Gay, is now the
						honored Eminent Commander of Raper Commandery.


					

					The Commandery gave banquets to the Grand Commandery at the annual conclaves in 1869
						and 1870.
					In November, 1869, the sum of fifty dollars was appropriated for the relief of a Sir
						Knight who was seriously ill, and twenty-eight Sir Knights also contributed one hundred
						and three dollars for the same object, and on January 26th, 1870, all the money in the
						treasury, forty-six dollars and fifty-five cents, was appropriated for the relief of the
						same Sir Knight.
					A Masonic Festival was held by the Commandery for the benefit of its treasury June 7th,
						1870, the net proceeds of which were one hundred and seventy-three dollars and forty-one
						cents.
					July Ist, 1870, the dues were increased to three dollars per annum.
					June 24th, 1871, a pilgrimage was made to Crawfordsville, Indiana, to join in the
						celebration of St. John Baptist's day by Montgomery Lodge of that city.
					The first Triennial Conclave of the Grand Encampment of the United States, in which the
						Commandery participated, was that at Baltimore, Maryland, in September, 1871.
					In April, 1872, Hanselman Commandery, of Cincinnati, attended the conclave of the Grand
						Commandery of Indiana, as the guests of Raper Commandery, and a banquet was given in
						honor of the visitors.
					The Commandery participated in the laying of the cornr-stone of the Bartholomew county
						court-house, at Columbus, Indiana, June I Ith, 1872, and in December  following the membership reached the one hundred mark for
						the first time. The years of 1872 and 1873 were especially prosperous years in the
						history of the Commandery.
					The annual celebrations of St. John the Baptist's day by the Masonic bodies of
						Louisville, Kentucky, the proceeds being for the benefit of the Masonic Widows' and
						Orphans' Home of Kentucky, were participated in by Raper Commandery in 1873 and
						1881.
					In April, 1874, in connection with Richmond, Fort Wayne and Muncie Commanderies, Raper
						Commandery acted as an escort to the Grand Commandery of Indiana and gave an exhibition
						drill at the State Fair Grounds in Indianapolis.
					The twenty-sixth anniversary of Raper Commandery was celebrated May 14th, 1874, by a
						public parade and banquet.
					On April 22d, 1874, it was by resolution of the Commandery declared an offense for any
						Sir Knight in uniform to enter a saloon.
					The fee for the Orders was increased to fifty dollars May 27th, 1874, and on invitation
						of Western Star Lodge, No. 26, of Danville, Indiana, the Commandery made a pilgrimage to
						that place on St. John the Baptist's day.
					July 22d, 1874, permission was given for the organization of a Commandery at
						Crawfordsville, Indiana.
					Eminent Commander Nicholas R. Ruckle was presented  with
						a sword and belt by his brother Sir Knights January, 8th, 1875. The membership at that
						time had increased to one hundred and forty-five Sir Knights.
					During the rebuilding of Masonic Temple, in 1875, the Commandery temporarily held its
						meetings in the Aetna I building on Pennsylvania street.
					On May 14th, 1875, a pilgrimage was made to Terre Haute to participate in the eighth
						anniversary of the Commandery located there.
					In June, 1875, Sir Knight Nicholas R. Ruckle, having been elected Grand Commander of
						Indiana, resigned as Eminent Commander of Raper Commandery, and it was resolved "that
						while reluctantly surrendering our late 'Eminent' to a 'Right Eminent' position, we do
						hereby certify our belief that Right Eminent Sir Knight Ruckle will 'bear his blushing
						honors thick upon him' in the Grand Body even as he has for years past wrought a good
						work in the pent-up Utica of Raper Commandery.
					"That we do hereby certify that while under the command of our beloved Frater the
						progress of Raper Commandery, in work, in tactics and in drill, has ever been onward and
						upward, and that his study, skill and assiduity have brought this Commandery to the
						point of excellence it has now attained.
					"That the example and emulation of our retiring Comder are worthy of all imitation, and
						that we will honestly endeavor to take no step in retreat.
					"That we rejoice in the promise made by our Right Eminent Grand Commander that he will
						continue to feel  and exercise a deep and abiding love and
						care for Raper Commandery and assist and immediately direct its officers and Knights in
						the discharge of their labors and duties.
					"That the above mentioned promise has softened the pang of parting and we rejoice that
						instead of exclaiming, 'Hail and farewell,' our shout may be for a long future 'Farewell
						and hail.'"
					Grand Commander Ruckle was then requested by the Commandery to continue to act as its
						drill master, to which he graciously assented.
					Liberal personal contributions were made by Sir Knights toward the furnishing of the
						apartments of the Commandery in the new Masonic Temple, aggregating about one thousand
						dollars.
					July Ist, 1876, the dues were increased to five dollars per annum, and were increased
						to ten per annum January Ist, 1878, at which figure they remained for one year, there
						being a pressing need for the advance, after which they were reduced to six dollars, at
						which amount they still remain.
					After twenty-two years of continuous service, Charles Fisher relinquished his duties as
						Recorder of the Commandery and was succeeded by William C. Anderson in January, 1878,
						and on the twenty-second anniversary of his birth, February 26th, the Commandery in a
						body paid their respects to him at his home.
					The thirtieth anniversary of the Commandery was celebrated May 14th, 1878, by an
						exhibition drill in University  Square, in the afternoon,
						and a social for the Sir Knights and their ladies in the evening.
					Liberal personal contributions by the members were made for the relief of yellow fever
						sufferers in Mississippi and Tennessee in the fall of 1878.
					Some forty Sir Knights of the Commandery visited their Masonic brethren of New Castle,
						Indiana, June 24th, 1879.
					Muncie Commandery was a guest of honor of Raper Commandery on the occasion of its
						thirty-third anniversary, May 13th, 1881.
					At the request of the Indianapolis City Council, the Commandery gave an exhibition
						drill in Garfield Park October 25th, 1881, and the Commandery made a pilgrimage to
						Cleveland, Ohio, later in the same month.
					July I th, 1882, Morris R. Eddy presented the Commandery with a lithograph picture of
						Sir Knight William H. Raper, and in the accompanying communication stated that it was
						"presented by Mr. Raper to the father of the writer while they were residing upon terms
						of great intimacy together in Cincinnati, somewhere about the year 1856. May I add,
						personally, that the impressions formed by me of 'Brother' Raper, as he was usually
						called in our Methodist home, remain firmly established in my memory, and Raper
						Commandery could not be better named than after him, who in his dealings with his
						fellow-men was ever honest and upright, and who in social qualities had the rare faculty
						of bringing sunshine with him wherever he might go, and who, wherever he  might be, was not ashamed to acknowledge and affirm his
						faith in that divine Christianity that guided him through so many years of his
						life."
					In 1882 St. Bernard Commandery, of Chicago, Illinois, challenged Raper Commandery for
						the possession of the prize banner won in 1880, and in a contest at the Exposition
						Grounds at Indianapolis, September 5th, 1882, was awarded it. A return challenge from
						Raper was promptly accepted by St. Bernard, the drill taking place in Chicago October
						9th, with the same result.
					A pilgrimage was made by Raper Commandery to Muncie, Indiana, September 25th, 1882, to
						witness the conferring of the Red Cross degree upon thirty-eight candidates.
					The highest number of members ever enrolled by Raper Commandery was in December, 1882,
						when the membership reached a total of one hundred and ninety-nine. An exhibition drill
						at home was given by the Commandery Drill Corps on August 3d, 1883.
					In February, 1884, a donation of one hundred dollars was made for the relief of
						sufferers from the floods of the Ohio river.
					Easter services, conducted by Sir Knight, Bishop David B. Knickerbacker, in St. Paul's
						Church, Indianapolis, were attended by forty-nine Sir Knights, April I3th, 1884.
					On St. John's day, 1884, Raper Commandery was the guest of DeMolay Commandery, of
						Louisville, and participated in the usual celebration for the benefit of the 
						
							REV. WILLIAM H. RAPER, Past Eminent Commander of Reed
								Commandery, Dayton, Ohio, In whose honor Raper Commandery is named.
						
						
						 Kentucky Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home at
						Louisville.
					In 1884 Raper Commandery presented to Anderson Commandery, U. D., of Anderson, Indiana,
						a Libation set, and in the resolution of thanks adopted by Anderson Commandery it was
						declared that Raper's "well-earned fame hath spread both far and wide for deeds of
						charity and pure beneficence."
					Upon invitation of Muncie Commandery, Raper Commandery participated in the ceremony of
						laying the corner-stone of the Delaware county court-house at Muncie, Indiana, July 23d,
						1885.
					Easter services were again attended at St. Paul's Church April 25th, 1886, on the
						invitation of the Rector, Sir Knight Joseph S. Jenckes.
					Previous to the election of Nicholas R. Ruckle to the office of Eminent Commander,
						Raper Commandery had not given much attention to perfection in drill, but following the
						elevation to Commander of this most excellent drill master great proficiency was soon
						attained, and Raper Commandery, entering the drill contest at the Triennial Conclave of
						the Grand Encampment at Cleveland, Ohio, in 1877, was awarded a beautiful and valuable
						Libation service as the second prize for excellence in drill. At the Triennial Conclave
						in Chicago, in 1880, Raper Commandery was again a contestant, and this time carried off
						the first prize, which was a magnificent jeweled Commandery sword and a Banner, which,
						under the rules, was to be defended against all challengers. Returning  home triumphantly, immediate steps were taken by Knights
						and citizens to show appreciation of the victory and to retain the trophy. Weekly drills
						were agreed upon, and a special fund of one thousand dollars was raised by the
						Commandery members to defray the expenses incident to the contest, while as a token of
						their appreciation of the glory brought to the city by the victory, the citizens of
						Indianapolis raised a testimonial of five hundred and fifty-eight dollars and presented
						it to the Commandery. In 1882 the expected challenge came at the hands of St. Bernard
						Commandery, of Chicago, and at this contest, which took place at the Exposition Grounds
						in Indianapolis, the challengers were declared successful. Raper Commandery gamely sent
						them an immediate challenge for another contest, which was as promptly accepted, and the
						contest taking place on October 9th, the result was as before, and victory once more
						perched on the banners of St. Bernard Commandery. However, nothing daunted, Raper
						Commandery was again eager for the fray the following summer, and was on hand, along
						with St. Bernard and other noted Commanderies, for the great drill contest at the
						Triennial Conclave held in San Francisco in August, 1883. This was the most memorable of
						all Raper Commandery's contests and experiences, for it not only defeated its old
						opponent of Chicago, but Raper Commandery in this contest scored by eight points the
						highest excellence in drill attained by any contestant, but owing to the fact that it
						was unable to have two officers in line that were required by the regulations, it was
						discounted  ten points, which gave DeMolay Commandery, of
						Louisville, Kentucky, the first choice of prizes, but the Fraters of DeMolay,
						recognizing the fact that Raper Commandery really made the highest score, most
						generously made choice of what was intended as the second prize, thus giving Raper the
						magnificent trophy that was designed for first prize. The two Commanderies returned from
						California to Indianapolis together and DeMolay was the guest of Raper for a day. The
						Indianapolis Light Infantry, accompanied by its excellent drum corps and many citizens,
						was at the Union Station to welcome the returning Knights, and the occasion was made a
						gala one. The regular Drill Corps of Raper disbanded in April, 1884, and turned seven
						hundred and eighty dollars into the treasury of the Commandery.
					Raper Commandery attended the Triennial Conclaves held in St. Louis in September, 1886;
						Washington, in October, 1889; Denver, in August, 1892; Boston, in August, 1895, and
						Pittsburg, in October, 1898. On these pilgrimages it was joined by many Sir Knights of
						other Indiana Commanderies. At the Washington conclave the Commandery successfully
						participated in an exhibition drill, it having prepared for the same by frequent and
						often daily drills for some time previous.
					Past Grand Master Albert C. Charles, of Seymour, and Past Grand Master and Grand
						Commander William Hacker, of Shelbyville (the latter for the second time) edhonorary
						members of Raper Commandery in 1887.

					

					William Black, for a great many years Captain of the Guard, being sick and unable to
						perform the duties of his office for some time before, his compensation was ordered
						continued by the Commandery up to the time of his death, August 19th, 1887.
					Raper Commandery exemplified the Order of the Temple before the Grand Commandery of
						Indiana at the annual meetings of 1887, 1894 and 1895, and gave a reception to the Grand
						Body of 1893.
					When the Scottish Rite Temple of the Valley of Indianapolis was destroyed by fire in
						1894, the use of the Commandery rooms was graciously tendered to the Scottish Rite and
						the Mystic Shrine, and both organizations made use of the same for some time during the
						process of rebuilding.
					Extensive improvements were made in the furnishing of the apartments of the Commandery
						in 1895, subscriptions aggregating seven hundred and eighteen dollars being made for the
						purpose by the members.
					Raper Commandery participated in the ceremony of laying the corner-stone of the new
						Scottish Rite Temple June 24th, 1895, the invitations extended to thirteen other Indiana
						Commanderies being generally accepted also.
					One of the most notable events in the history of Raper Commandery was the celebration
						at Indianapolis of its fiftieth anniversary, May I3th, 1898, which was participated in
						by representatives of almost all the Commanderies of the State, there being over five
						hundred visiting Sir Knights in the parade, besides the officers 
						
							COL. NICHOLAS R. RUCKLE, Eminent Commander of Raper Commandery,
								1671-1875. Grand Commander of the Grand Commandery, 1875. Grand Master of
								the Grand Lodge, 1891.
						 V Q^ ~^ 
						 of the Grand Commandery of Indiana. The program embraced
						receptions to the ten visiting Commanderies in the forenoon, followed by a luncheon, a
						parade through the principal streets, a review by the Grand Officers in Monument Place,
						and a banquet in the Scottish Rite Temple in the evening, presided over by Eminent
						Commander Charles L. Hutchinson, as toastmaster, Past Grand Commander Nicholas R. Ruckle
						delivering the address of welcome. Grand Commander John H. Nicholson responded to the
						toast, "The Grand Commandery," and Sir Knight William Dudley Foulke, of Richmond,
						Indiana, to "Our Country." The occasion was further enlivened by music by the Scottish
						Rite Glee Club. By the courtesy of the Monon Railroad the Sir Knights were tendered a
						free train to Camp Mount, where some five thousand Indiana Volunteers who had enlisted
						for service in the Spanish-American war were encamped, whose dress parade was witnessed
						with much interest. Concerning the parade of the Sir Knights in the afternoon, the
						records set forth that "The handsome uniforms and gay equipments of the Sir Knights,
						together with the soul-stirring and patriotic music of the many bands, created great
						enthusiasm among the spectators, and it was universally acknowledged to be the
						handsomest and most imposing procession that had appeared on the streets of Indianapolis
						for many years."
					Forty-two Sir Knights of Raper Commandery were in line on a pilgrimage to Richmond,
						Indiana, at the meeting of the Grand Commandery, April 19th, 1899.




					

					The Grand Commandery having for several years held its annual meetings at other points
						than Indianapolis, the occasion of its return to the capital city, April 18th, 1900, was
						made notable by an entertainment by Raper Commandery, to which all the Commanderies of
						the State were invited. On this occasion there were forty-five of Raper Commandery's
						swords in line during the parade and four hundred and eighty of other Commanderies. A
						banquet was given in the Scottish Rite Temple, followed by a literary entertainment and
						dancing at Masonic Hall.
					The many pilgrimages, entertainments, etc., given by Raper Commandery during its half
						century and more of activity have required from its members many personal contributions,
						which have always been cheerfully and liberally donated, demonstrating most effectually
						the deep interest that its members have always had in its welfare.
					The saddest call to which it has ever responded was the funeral of Past Eminent
						Commander and Past Grand Commander Nicholas R. Ruckle, May 7th, I900. Devoted as he was,
						heart and soul, to the building up of the great Scottish Rite organization in Indiana,
						his interest in Templar Masonry was always equally earnest and persistent, and to him
						Raper Commandery owes much of its fame, its honor and its reputation.
					The present officers of Raper Commandery are:
					
						HENRY T. CONDE, Eminent Commander.
						OLIVER W. PIERCE, Generalissimo.
						WILLIAM J. MCKEE, Captain General.
						HERVEY B. FATOUT, Senior Warden.




						

						JOHN J. Booz, Junior Warden.
						VESTAL W. WOODWARD, Prelate.
						ALBERT GALL, Treasurer.
						JACOB W. SMITH, Recorder.
						EVAN H. PRITCHARD, Standard Bearer.
						MARTIN L. RINEHART, Sword Bearer.
						AMES W. LILLY, Warder.
						JOHN B. VANTILBURGH, Sentinel.
					
					
						EMINENT COMMANDERS OF RAPER COMMANDERY FROM THE ORGANIZATION IN
							1848 TO 1902.

						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							*1
							Abel C. Pepper
							May, 1848, to May, 1849
						
						
							2
							Benj. F. Kavanaugh
							May, 1849, to Jan., 1851
						
						
							1½
							James S. Brown
							Jan, 1851, to Oct., 1852
						
						
							1½
							John S. Bobbs
							Oct., 1852, to Jan., 1854
						
						
							1
							William Sheets
							Jan., 1854, to Feb., 1855
						
						
							1
							John S. Bobbs
							Feb., 1855, to Jan., 1856
						
						
							13
							Ephraim Colestock
							Jan., 1856, to Dec., 1868
						
						
							3
							Roger Parry
							Dec., 1868, to Dec., 1871
						
						
							†3½
							Nicholas R. Ruckle
							Dec., 1871, to June, 1875
						
						
							1½
							John G. Pendergast
							June, 1875, to Dec., 1876
						
						
							2
							Henry C. Adams
							Dec., 1876, to Dec., 1878
						
						
							2
							Martin H. Rice
							Dec., 1878, to Dec., 1880
						
						
							1
							Albert Gall
							Dec., 1880, to Dec., 1881
						
						
							1
							Austin H. Brown
							Dec., 1881, 1883, to Dec., 1882
						
						
							1
							Joseph W. Smith
							Dec., 1882, to Dec., 1883
						
						
							1
							Frank P. Woollen
							Dec., 1883, to Dec., 1884
						
						
							1
							Phineas G. C. Hunt
							Dec., 1884, to Dec., 1885
						
						
							1
							Christian A. Brink
							Dec., 1885, to Dec., 1886
						
						
							1
							John T. Brush
							Dec., 1886, to Dec., 1887
						
						
							1
							Jacob W. Smith
							Dec., 1887, to Dec., 1888
						
						
							1
							Byron K. Elliott
							Dec., 1888, to Dec., 1889
						
						
							3
							William J. McKee
							Dec., 1889, to Dec., 1892
						
						
							2
							Vestal W. Woodward
							Dec., 1892, to Dec., 1894
						
						
							2
							Ahira R. White
							Dec., 1894, to Dec., 1896
						
						
							1
							William S. Rich
							Dec., 1896, to Dec., 1897
						
						
							1
							Charles L. Hutchinson
							Dec., 1897, to Dec., 1898
						








						

						
							Number Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							2
							Wm. Schoppenhorst
							Dec., 1898, to Dec., 1900
						
						
							1
							George A. Gay
							Dec., 1900, to Dec., 1901
						
						
							1
							Henry T. Conde
							Dec., 1901, to —, 1902
						
					
					*Resigned May 24th, 1849,
						(having dimitted) and was succeeded by Benjamin F. Kavanaugh.
					†Resigned upon his election
						as Grand Commander of Indiana and was succeeded by John G. Pendergast.
					

						RECORDERS OF RAPER COMMANDERY FROM THE ORGANIZATION IN 1848 TO
							1902.

						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							*1
							James Whitcomb
							May, 1848, to Jan., 1849
						
						
							5
							Francis King
							Jan., 1849, to Jan., 1854
						
						
							1
							William D. Shepherd
							Jan., 1854, to Feb., 1855
						
						
							1
							John F. Gulick
							Feb., 1855, to Jan., 1856
						
						
							23
							Charles Fisher
							Jan., 1856, to Dec., 1878
						
						
							†3½
							William C. Anderson
							Dec., 1878, to April, 1882
						
						
							½Jacob W. Smith
							April, 1882, to Dec., 1882
						
						
							6
							William H. Smythe
							Dec., 1882, to Dec., 1888
						
						
							4
							Jacob W. Smith
							Dec., 1888, to —, 1902
						
					
					*Governor Whitcomb resigned
						January 1st, 1849, to go to Washington upon his election to the United States Senate,
						and was succeeded by Francis King.
					†Resigned April, 1882, and
						unexpired term filled by Jacob W. Smith.

					MEMBERS OF RAPER COMMANDERY JANUARY 1, 1902.
					
						Adams, H. C.
						Almond, Enos A.
						Allen, Frank M.
						Armstrong, E. J.
						Arthur, Charles H.
						Bartholomew, W. I.
						Bassett, W. B.
						Benepe, John L.
						Bennett, Theodore
						Birk, Martin
						Booz, Edward G.
						Booz, John J.
						Bowman, William W.
						Brigham, Arthur C.
						Brokaw, Elmer Z.
						Browder, Wilbur F.

						Brown, Austin H.
						Brown, Chalmers
						Brush, John T.
						Buchanan, Charles J.
						Burke, William H.
						Campbell, Eddy M.
						Cavanagh, Joseph R.
						Caven, John
						Chapman, Edward K.
						Christian, Thomas J.
						Cline, Lewis C.
						Cochran, William M.
						Cockrum, John B.
						Colip, Erastus H.
						Collins, John E.
						Conde, Henry T.

						

						Conduitt, Allen W.
						Conlee, Thomas A.
						Crampton, A. B.
						Crosly, Marion
						Cross, Charles M.
						Cumback, Will, Jr.
						Dalrymple, John M.
						DaShiel, Charles F.
						Davis, William C.
						Dilks, J. H.
						Dissette, James I.
						Dryer, James W.
						Eastman, Joseph
						Eastman, Thomas B.
						Ebert, John
						Elliott, Byron K.
						English, William E.
						Epps, Harry G.
						Evans, Evan E.
						Fatout, Hervey B.
						Fauve, Adrian E.
						Fletcher, Samuel H.
						Furgason, Charles H.
						Gall, Albert
						Gardner, Fred C.
						Gates, Harrie H.
						Gay, George A.
						Gilmore, Charles C.
						Gladding, Nelson A.
						Glossbrenner, A. M.
						Goth, Herman A.
						Gray, Stephen
						Griffith, William G.
						Hall, Charles D.
						Hankins, Anthony M.
						Hawkins, Roscoe O.
						Haynes, Horace F.
						Hays, Franklin W.
						Hillman, Samuel J.
						Holliday, Francis T.
						Holmes, Henry F.
						Hornshu, Charles Fred

						Hughes, David C.
						Hugg, Martin M.
						Huhn, Peter
						Humphreys, David
						Hutchinson, Charles L.
						Irwin, Clarence E.
						Izor, Albert
						Jackson, Samuel M.
						Johnson, Eudorus M.
						Johnston, Samuel A.
						Kile, Sherman C.
						Kinney, Horace E.
						Kline, Frederick
						Knight, John
						Koehne, Armin C.
						Koss, William
						Kregelo, Charles E.
						Lemon, Daniel A.
						Lewis, Frank W.
						Lilly, James W.
						Loudon, George
						Lowe, Richard H.
						Lynch, Augustus L.
						McKee, William J.
						Martin, Harry D.
						Martin, John
						Meyer, August B.
						Meyer, Charles F.
						Morrison, Samuel L.
						Morse, Thomas J.
						Moore, W. Scott
						Morrison, Lewis E.
						Nethery, Joseph W.
						New, Harry S.
						Nichols, Smith T.
						Oddy, Tom
						Parrott, Horace
						Parry, D. M.
						Parry, Roger
						Parry, Thomas H.
						Pearson, John R.
						Perkins, Julian W.


						

						Pierce, Oliver W.
						Potter, Joseph L.
						Pritchard, Evan H.
						Pryor, Harry A.
						Purman, D. M.
						Quayle, William A.
						Raschig, Maurice H.
						Raffensperger, Hiram C.
						Rainey, Harvey W.
						Rice, Martin H.
						Rich, William S.
						Riley, John W.
						Rinehart, Martin L.
						Roberts, Benjamin
						Russ, George
						Schmidt, William H.
						Scholz, Frederick J.
						Schoppenhorst, William
						Simmons, Oliver M.
						Sipp, Benjamin F.
						Smallwood, Frank M.
						Smith, Harry B.
						Smith, Jacob W.
						Smith, Joseph P.
						Smither, Henry C.
						SmSmythe, William H.
						Smythe, Donn V.
						Spiegel, George M.
						Stabler, William J.
						Staub, J. W.
						Stone, John
						Stout, Horace A.

						Taggart, Thomas
						Taylor, Major
						Terry, Samuel P.
						Thicksten, William W.
						Tracy, John F.
						Tulley, Edward M.
						Thurber, William E.
						VanCamp, Raymond P.
						VanHummel, Henry
						VanTilburgh, John B.
						Wade, Frank P.
						Walk, Julius C.
						Watson, Horace S.
						Watts, James M.
						Webb, Charles P.
						Weinberger, Herman
						White, Ahira R.
						Wild, John F.
						Wiles, Frank M.
						Williams, Carmi P.
						Williams, E. L.
						Williamson, James A.
						Wills, Marshall F.
						Wilson, J. Russell
						Wolfe, Edward H.
						Wood, Horace F.
						Woods, Ford
						Woodward, Vestal W.
						Wynne, Thomas A.
						Yontz, Manford D.
						Young, Archibald A.
						Young, John Herbert

					
					Total membership—179.

				

				
				
					ELBRIDGE G. HAMILTON.
				
				
					NICHOLAS R. RUCKLE.
				

				
					JOHN CAVEN.
				

				
					JOSEPH W. SMITH.
				

				
					WILLIAM GEAKE.
				

				
					DEPUTIES OF THE SUPREME COUNCIL FOR THE DISTRICT OF INDIANA, ANCIENT
						ACCEPTED SCOTTISH RITE. 1866-1902.
				




				
				
					

					ANCIENT ACCEPTED SCOTTISH RITE, VALLEY OF INDIANAPOLIS.
					The several bodies of the Scottish Rite in Indianapolis exist under the authority of
						the Supreme Council of Sovereign Grand Inspectors General of the Third-third and last
						degree, Ancient Accepted Scottish Rite for the Northern Masonic Jurisdiction of the
						United States of America, having its Grand East in Boston, Massachusetts, of which Henry
						L. Palmer, of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, is Most Puissant Sovereign Grand Commander, and
						Clinton F. Paige, of New York, is Illustrious Grand Secretary, and which dates its
						organization from August 5th, 1813. It is founded upon and governed by the Regulations
						of 1762, the Constitutions of 1786 as modified, and the unwritten principles and
						landmarks of Free Masonry. It exercises exclusive jurisdiction over the Rite in the New
						England States and the States of New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Ohio,
						Michigan, Indiana, Illinois and Wisconsin, and has under its government :
					
						
							33
							Consistories with a membership of
							23,289
						
						
							58
							Chapters of Rose Croix with a membership of
							23,744
						
						
							62
							Councils of Princes of Jerusalem with a membership of
							24,321
						
						
							79
							Lodges of Perfection with a membership of
							26,826
						
					


					

					Previous to 1867 there was a conflict of jurisdiction between this body and a rival
						Supreme Council having its Grand East in New York, which organized a Consistory at
						Laporte, Indiana, November 28th, 1866, but upon May 17th, 1867, the two Supreme bodies
						united. The Supreme Council is a self-perpetuating body of not exceeding sixty-six
						active members and a large number of honorary members, and when a vacancy in the active
						membership is caused by death or otherwise the body fills the vacancy by electing one of
						its honorary members to active membership. The honorary members are elected by the
						Supreme Council in executive session, when none but active members are allowed to be
						present, and the Thirty-third degree is conferred upon members so elected in the Supreme
						Council when not in executive session. The bodies working under the jurisdiction of the
						Supreme Council are styled Lodges of Perfection, Councils of Princes of Jerusalem,
						Chapters of Rose Croix de H-R-D-M, and Consistories of Sublime Princes of the Royal
						Secret. A deputy of the Supreme Council for each State and Territory, who must be a
						Sovereign Grand Inspector of the Thirty-third degree, represents the Supreme Council in
						each district, and performs the duties, supervision and inspection assigned to him by
						the Supreme Council or by the Most Puissant Sovereign Grand Commander. A Council of
						Deliberation in each district possesses the legislative and judicial powers not reserved
						to the Supreme Council and not inconsistent with the Constitution  and Regulations. It is composed of the active and honorary members of the
						Supreme Council resident in each State, the Past-Commanders-in-Chief of Consistories,
						the first three officers of Consistories and Chapters of Rose Croix, and the first four
						officers of Councils of Princes of Jerusalem and Lodges of Perfection. The deputy for
						each district is ex-officio Commander-in-Chief. The Council meets at least triennially,
						in the year next preceding the election of the officers of the Supreme Council.
					The degrees of the Scottish Rite are as follows:
					PREREQUISITES-SYMBOLIC DEGREES.
					
						1. Entered Apprentice.
						2. Fellow Craft.
						3. Master Mason.
					
					Only conferred in a regular Lodge of Master Masons, duly constituted by the Grand Lodge
						of the State (York Rite) in which the Lodge is located.
					INEFFABLE DEGREES.
					Lodges of Perfection have control over and power to confer the following grades:
					
						4. Secret Master.
						5. Perfect Master.
						6. Intimate Secretary.
						7. Provost and Judge.
						8. Intendant of the Building.
						9. Elect of Nine.




						

						10. Elect of Fifteen.
						11. Sublime Knight Elect.
						12. Grand Master Architect.
						13. Knight of the Ninth Arch.
						14. Grand Elect Perfect and Sublime Mason.
					

					The foregoing degrees of a Lodge of Perfection can not be conferred upon any person
						unless he is an affiliated Master Mason, in good standing, in a lawfully constituted
						Lodge of Master Masons.
					HISTORICAL AND TRADITIONAL DEGREES.
					Councils of Princes of Jerusalem have control over and power to confer the following
						grades:
					
						15. Knight of the East or Sword.
						16. Prince of Jerusalem.
					
					PHILOSOPHICAL AND CHRISTIAN GRADES.
					Chapters of Rose Croix have control over and power to confer the following grades:
					
						17. Knight of the East and West.
						18. Knight of Rose Croix de H-R-D-M.
					
					CHIVALRIC AND PHILOSOPHICAL GRADES.
					Consistories of Sublime Princes of the Royal Secret have control over and power to
						confer the following grades:
					
						19. Grand Pontiff.
						20. Master ad Vitam.




						
						
							WILLIAM GEAKE, Present Deputy of the Supreme Council for tile
								District of Indiana. Present Thrice Potent Grand Master of Fort Wayne Lodge of
								Perfection. Grand Master of the Grand Lodge, 1900.
						


						
						

						21. Patriarch Noachite.
						22. Prince of Libanus.
						23. Chief of the Tabernacle.
						24. Prince of the Tabernacle.
						25. Knight of the Brazen Serpent.
						26. Prince of Mercy.
						27. Commander of the Temple.
						28. Knight of the Sun.
						29. Knight of St. Andrew.
						30. Grand Elect Knight Kadosh, or Knight
						of the White and Black Eagle.
						31. Grand Inspector Inquisitor Commander.
						32. Sublime Prince of the Royal Secret.
					
					OFFICIAL GRADE.
					
						33. Sovereign Grand Inspector-General.
					
					Sublime Princes of the Royal Secret of the Thirty-second degree, not less than
						thirty-three years of age, at an annual session of the Supreme Council, may be elected
						Sovereign Grand Inspectors-General of the Thirty-third and last degree, honorary members
						of the Supreme Council, by a unanimous vote taken by secret ballot. Honorary members
						have the right to be present at all sessions of the Supreme Council, except executive
						sessions, and to a voice therein, but no vote.
					Sovereign Grand Inspectors-General of the Thirty-third and last degree may be elected
						active members of the Supreme Council ad vitam, at the annual meetings  thereof by viva voce vote; three negative
						votes reject a nominee.
					Any active member who shall resign or move into a State other than the one to which he
						was accredited, shall become a Past active member, with the right to be present at all
						sessions of the Supreme Council and to a voice therein but no vote.
					Any past active member may be elected an Emeritus member in the same manner in which
						active members are elected, and be entitled to sit in the Supreme Council at all times,
						and to a voice and a vote on all questions except those of active membership.
					The Deputies of the Supreme Council for the District of Indiana, serving in the order
						named, have been John Caven of Indianapolis, Elbridge G. Hamilton of LaPorte, Nicholas
						R. Ruckle of Indianapolis, Joseph W. Smith of Indianapolis, and William Geake of Fort
						Wayne, the latter being the present incumbent of that exalted office.
				



				
				
					EDWIN A. DANVIS,1861-1865.
				
				
					JOHN CAVEN,1865-1874.
				

				
					LEWIS E.MORRISON, 1902-1903.
				

				
					JOHN T. BRUSH.1888-1890.
				

				
					CHARLES L. HUTCHINSON,1900-1902
				

				
					THRICE POTENT GRAND MASTERS Of Adoniram Grand Lodge of
						Perfection.
				


				
				
					

					ADONIRAM GRAND LODGE OF PERFECTION, ANCIENT ACCEPTED SCOTTISH RITE.
					All the financial matters of the several Scottish Rite bodies of Indianapolis are under
						the control of Adoniram Grand Lodge of Perfection, all business being transacted in the
						Fourteenth degree. Adoniram Grand Lodge had its inception in April, 1863, when Caleb B.
						Smith and James M. Tomlinson called Brothers Edwin A. Davis, John C. New, Horace W.
						Smith, William John Wallace, Phineas G. C. Hunt, William Sullivan, Isaac Hodgson,
						Addison L. Roache, Luther R. Martin, Thomas A. Morris, Mansur H. Wright, William
						Wallace, William R. Foster, William J. H. Robinson, Stoughton A. Fletcher, Jr.,
						Alexander H. Conner, Theodore P. Haughey, Thomas B. McCarty, Samuel Morse, George F.
						Meyer and John M. Lord into consultation, and these brethren sent a petition for a
						dispensation to the Supreme Council through Enoch T. Carson, its deputy for Ohio and
						Indiana, and in response thereto a dispensation in blank was issued June 22d, 1863.
						Caleb B. Smith had already received the degrees in Cincinnati, and on October 6th, 1863,
						Brothers Tomlinson, Davis, New, Hunt, Horace W. Smith and William John Wallace received
						the degrees  in Cincinnati. The first meeting was held
						October 15th, Caleb B. Smith acting as chairman and James M. Tomlinson Secretary, and
						officers were then chosen as follows:
					
						CALEB B. SMITH, Thrice Potent Grand Master.
						JAMES M. TOMLINSON, Senior Grand Warden.
						WILLIAM JOHN WALLACE, Junior Grand Warden.
						JOHN C. NEW, Grand Treasurer.
						HORACE W. SMITH, Grand Secretary.
						PHINEAS G. C. HUNT, Grand Master of Ceremonies.
						EDWIN A. DAVIS, Grand Captain of the Guard.
					
					It was decided that the expenses of these seven brethren in obtaining the degrees,
						including fees, should be audited by the Grand Secretary and paid by the Grand Treasurer
						out of the first surplus funds accruing in the Treasury. The sixteen other petitioners
						were elected to receive the degrees and were directed to pay fifty dollars each for the
						degrees in Lodge and Council, and it was ordered "that the moneys so obtained be applied
						to the preparing and fitting up of the Lodge rooms." Brothers Davis, Tomlinson and Hunt
						were appointed a committee to contract with James C. Yohn for the upper story of his
						block on the northeast corner of Washington and Meridian 
						streets, and to take immediate steps to arrange the same in a suitable manner.
					October 19th, on the recommendation of Caleb B. Smith, the Lodge was named "Adoniram"
						and the Council of Princes of Jerusalem "Saviat," and this latter name so appears in the
						records until March Ist, 1867, when it was changed to "Saraiah." Brothers Caleb B.
						Smith, Hunt and New were appointed a committee on jewels, wardrobe, swords, drum,
						etc.
					October 23d, a Committee on Articles of Association was appointed, and Brother
						Tomlinson, as Secretary pro tem., was authorized to procure seal, book, etc. The
						Committee on Hall reported that it had rented the rooms mentioned for three hundred
						dollars per annum.
					November 17th, Articles of Association, as required by the law of Indiana, were
						executed by the original seven brethren of "Adoniram Grand Lodge of Perfection of
						Ancient and Accepted Masons."
					January 7th, 1864, Thrice Potent Grand Master Caleb B. Smith died, greatly to the
						sorrow of the brethren, and on January 14th Brother Edwin A. Davis was chosen to that
						office pro tem. Caleb B. Smith, who was also Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of
						Free and Accepted Masons of Indiana, was one of the state's most distinguished men and
						Masons. He was twice elected to Congress, was the first Secretary of the Interior in the
						Cabinet of Abraham Lincoln and was Judge of the United States District Court at the time
						of his death.
					On February 3d the first ritualistic work was done,  the
						degrees from the Fourth to the Ninth, inclusive, being conferred by Enoch T. Carson and
						six other brethren from Cincinnati upon Brothers Haughey, Sullivan, Wright, Fletcher,
						Meyer, Hodgson, John Caven, John J. Hayden, William J. H. Robinson, William Wallace and
						John L. Holton, and on the following day the same brethren received the Tenth to the
						Fourteenth degree, and during the next few weeks the same degrees were conferred upon
						the other petitioners, except Thomas A. Morris, who never became a member of the Rite.
						Meetings were held weekly or oftener until July, and the grades were conferred upon
						seventeen others, including Nelson Bradley, Wheelock P. Bingham, Samuel A. Johnston,
						John Love, J. F. Elliott and William Hacker. James M. Tomlinson was the acting Grand
						Secretary until May IIth, when Luther R. Martin began to serve. A code of by-laws
						reported by a committee, of which John Caven was chairman, was adopted May 5th, and on
						May IIth a circular was ordered printed for distribution among Master Masons to advance
						the prosperity of the Rite.
					The necessity of obtaining a Charter from the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
						of Indiana for a new Lodge of Master Masons was suggested and the efforts of the
						brothers invited in behalf of the same, and shortly following this action Ancient
						Landmarks Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons was organized under dispensation dated May
						26th, 1864, with a Charter membership of Master Masons composed exclusively of members
						of the Scottish Rite.




					

					
						HON. CALEB B. SMITH, First Thrice Potent Grand Master of Adoniram
							Grand Lodge of Perfection. Secretary of the Interior, Cabinet of President
							Lincoln. Judge United States District Court.
					


					

					
					At the thirty-third meeting, held June Ist, 1864, the minutes of all previous meetings,
						which had evidently been written up in proper form for the first time, were read and
						approved, and a committee was appointed to confer with Ancient Landmarks Lodge, U. D.,
						about subletting the hall to that body, which arrangement was consummated June 8th, the
						rent and other expenses being equally divided. On October 12th the treasury was
						evidently empty, as a note was executed to the Treasurer for six hundred and fifty
						dollars balance due him.
					February 3d, 1865, John Caven was elected Thrice Potent Grand Master, and thanks were
						returned to the retiring officers, Brothers Davis, Tomlinson, Haughey, Hunt, Myers and
						Osgood, none of whom were in the list of officers then elected, "for their untiring
						exertions in establishing the order of A. & A. Masons at Indianapolis and for their
						faithfulness in the discharge of the duties of their several offices." The new Thrice
						Potent Grand Master was installed by Killian H. Van Rensselaer, of Cambridge, Ohio, Most
						Puissant Sovereign Grand commander. The records of the Supreme Council show that
						Charters were granted to the four bodies of the Indianapolis Rite May 19th, 1865, but
						these several Charters were destroyed by fire November 3d, 1894, and new Charters were
						authorized by the Supreme Council, bearing date September 19th, 1895.
					November 15th, 1865, "the Grand Lodge decided to confer the degrees of the A. & A.
						Rite, over which it has jurisdiction, upon such Masonic members of the

					

					Indiana Legislature now in session as may present themselves for the same, for one-half
						the usual sum, viz., fifteen dollars," and on January 6th, 1866, a half rate was granted
						to ten Master Masons of Brazil, Indiana.
					February 3d, 1866, most of the officers were re-elected, and George H. Fleming was
						chosen Grand Secretary and James W. Herr Grand Treasurer. Action was also taken looking
						to the securing of two additional rooms located on the fourth floor, which were later
						obtained.
					April 25th, 1866, the first Convocation was held, denominated in the records a
						"Festival Occasion," when Killian H. Van Rensselaer, Most Puissant Sovereign Grand
						Commander, and sixteen brethren from Cincinnati were present.
					May Ioth, Brothers Davis, Hunt, Caven and Lucien Hills were recommended to receive the
						Thirty-third degree, and Brother Caven was elected delegate to the Supreme Council.
					Up to June I6th, no dues were assessed against members, but they were then fixed at six
						dollars per annum, at which figure they have remained ever since, for resident members.
						The financial records are incomplete, but the receipts for the three years were
						estimated at forty-five hundred dollars and the unpaid indebtedness at six hundred and
						eighty-nine dollars and fifty cents. several brethren offered to advance money without
						interest toward paying the indebtedness, but an effort to collect dues in advance being
						successful, the offers were declined.



					
					October 14th, a brother having died, it was "ordered that the Grand Lodge participate
						in the funeral as a distinct rite of Masonry, the members thereof wearing the black
						robes and carrying swords," and thirty-six members so attended. It is recorded that "The
						procession was formed in triangles of six members, marching about twelve feet apart, and
						the appearance on the street was highly commended by lookers-on." In December a
						committee was appointed to confer with Raper Commandery in reference to its occupying
						the rooms of the Rite.
					January 2d, 1867, the Finance Committee was authorized to "make such arrangements
						relative to the fees for conferring the degrees as they may deem advisable and for the
						best interest of the Rite, provided that said committee shall not have the power to
						pledge the Grand Lodge to confer the degrees upon any resident of Marion county for a
						less sum than $I5." At this time Masons in various parts of the State were being
						interested in the Rite, the "so-called New York Supreme Council" making vigorous efforts
						to propagate itself, and the Grand Secretary sarcastically declared that "The Grand
						Consistory of Sublime Princes of the Royal Secret for the State of Indiana, located by
						circular at Laporte, lives only in that circular form," and it was duly resolved that
						"one to six prominent Masons in more important localities be invited to take the
						Fourteenth degree without fee or reward."
					April 9th, the Supreme Council was requested to make Indiana a separate district, and
						Brother John Caven, who  had been made an active
						Thirty-third degree member May Ioth, 1866, was recommended for appointment as Deputy for
						the District of Indiana. Bodies of the Rite were about this time organized by the New
						York Supreme Council in New Albany, Terre Haute, Lafayette, Richmond, Fort Wayne and
						Anderson, which maintained a precarious existence for several years, but, on the
						recommendation of the Supreme Council, they were all discontinued before 1873, many of
						the members affiliating with the Indianapolis bodies.
					During April, 1867, a number of the members attended the Fourteenth Annual Convocation
						of the Cincinnati bodies, and a committee was appointed to obtain more comfortable
						quarters for the Indianapolis Rite, which committee later presented several propositions
						involving an investment of thirty thousand dollars or more, none of which were accepted,
						and the Rite continued in Yohn's block until the fall of 1873. In June the financial
						condition had so improved that the Grand Treasurer was directed to invest one thousand
						dollars at interest, and in October the fees were increased to one hundred dollars. At a
						funeral in November "Members of the Scottish Rite appeared in black robes, with a sprig
						of evergreen under a violet-colored ribbon upon the left breast. A special burial
						service was prepared by the Grand Secretary and duly printed for the occasion, but the
						Thrice Potent feared to use it for want of familiarity with its language, etc."
					A Convocation was held May 26th, 1868, during the 
						session of the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons, there being five candidates, and
						the Rite participated in a picnic on the following St. John the Baptist's day. The
						records are entirely blank from January 14th to March 3d, 1869, when Ephraim Hartwell's
						name appears as Grand Secretary, and the officers elected in the interim were installed.
						A banquet was held October 13th and action was taken looking toward the enforcement of
						the collection of dues, and the more careful scrutiny of the financial accounts.
					October 18th, 1871, one hundred dollars was donated to the Chicago Scottish Rite bodies
						for the relief of brethren suffering from the great Chicago fire.
					A Convocation was held January 9th, 1872, with four candidates. March 27th the fees for
						non-residents were made sixty-five dollars, and a committee was appointed to procure
						other Lodge rooms, which later reported in favor of opening negotiations for the
						purchase of the Fourth Presbyterian Church, on the southwest corner of Market and
						Delaware streets.
					May 29th the Rite participated in the ceremony of laying the corner-stone of the Marion
						county court-house. Grand Secretary Hartwell was taken sick in August, and the Rite
						furnished him watchers, and participated in his funeral November 3oth, his remains being
						interred in the lot of the Masonic Burial Ground Association in Crown Hill Cemetery.
					May 28th, 1873, a committee was appointed to superintend the construction of new rooms
						in the Baldwin block,




					

					corner of Market and Delaware streets, of which the Rite was to be lessee, at a rental
						of one thousand dollars per annum, and on November 15th following they were occupied for
						the first time. On February IIth, 1874, Cortez F. Holliday was elected Grand Secretary,
						and on February 18th Trustees for the body were elected for the first time.
					March 24th, 1874, a Convocation was held with seven candidates, and annually since that
						time, with the exception of 1896, when the Rite was without a suitable home,
						Convocations have been held in the month of March.
					In September the Rite suffered its first loss by fire, and a committee was appointed to
						"repair damages and restore the lost word." In December a committee was appointed to
						solicit contributions and arrange for a social, which was held December 28th, and
						similar festivities were held at various times until 1878, when the Scottish Rite
						Dramatic and Literary Association was organized, which for several years furnished
						interesting entertainments for the members and their families.
					June 24th, 1877, Rev. Myron W. Reed delivered an able address in the rooms of the Rite.
						September 26th Cortez F. Holliday resigned as Grand Secretary, and Samuel J. Hillman was
						elected to that office. Brother J. H. Baldwin's offer to put a mansard roof on the
						building for an increased rental of three hundred dollars per annum was accepted and the
						lease renewed. October 3d the affiliation fee was increased from one dollar to five
						dollars, and the by-laws were ordered printed.
					In January, 1878, there was an indebtedness of about  one
						thousand dollars, which was met by personal loans from members. November 5th, 1879,
						revised by-laws were adopted and printed, and in December a regulation uniform was
						established and a suite of rooms on the second floor rented.
					In January, I880, the audience room was refitted and redecorated, telegraphic
						connection was made with the building and the Secretary's salary was fixed at two
						hundred dollars and five per cent. on all dues collected. In November the Trustees were
						ordered to arrange for music and to organize a brass band.
					By June, 1881, the financial condition was so improved that the Grand Treasurer was
						instructed to deposit two thousand dollars in the Indianapolis National Bank at
						interest. The old organ was sold at this time for two hundred dollars.
					In 1882 a fire escape was ordered, and five thousand dollars more was ordered deposited
						at interest. The first "fall" Convocation-so-called-was not held until December 5th, and
						similar Convocations have been held every fall since that time. In December a
						proposition was received from the Indiana National Bank to sell the real estate on South
						Pennsylvania street, known as the "Tousey and Wiggins property," and after considerable
						negotiation and many other properties being considered, the purchase was consummated
						January Ioth, 1883, for twenty-five thousand dollars, and the building was remodeled,
						enlarged and furnished at a total cost of some twenty-eight thousand dollars.



					

					In 1883 relief to the amount of one hundred dollars was extended to sufferers from the
						Ohio river floods, through the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons. Past Grand
						Master William Hacker presented his valuable Masonic library to the Rite and it was
						accepted and suitably located, and he was presented with an elegant watch charm by the
						Rite as a token of appreciation of the magnificent gift. The new building was first
						occupied in the early fall.
					In 1884 a fire escape and stand pipes were placed in the building. March 3oth the Rite
						attended the First Presbyterian Church in a body, it being the occasion of Brother Myron
						W. Reed's farewell sermon. October 22d arrangements were made with Murat Temple of the
						Mystic Shrine to hold its meetings in the building of the Rite. Brother Elbridge G.
						Hamilton, who had been Deputy of the Supreme Council in 1877, died October 28th, and a
						committee was appointed which attended his funeral at his home at Laporte, Indiana, and
						a suitable memorial was adopted. Rules were adopted forbidding all games in the social
						rooms during the session of any body of the Rite or on Sunday. Sympathy was extended to
						the Cincinnati bodies of the Rite on account of the loss of their cathedral by fire, and
						the use of the Indianapolis Rite building was tendered them, which they declined with
						warm expressions of appreciation of the fraternal spirit shown.
					In 1885 Col. Cyrus J. Dobbs, who had been an active 
						worker almost from the inception of the Rite, died, much regretted by his brethren.
						Among the many donations to the Hacker library was a so-called expose of the first three
						degrees of Masonry, printed in 1797, which was found on a battlefield in 1863 and
						presented by T. F. Boltz, of Fort Wayne. A special relief fund was established,
						subscriptions being made by members, which enabled the bodies to extend needed
						assistance to brethren and their families. Late in the year a stereopticon was purchased
						for use in the work.
					In 1886 an elegant pipe organ, purchased by subscriptions from the brethren, was
						presented to the Rite. In 1887 all properties on hand not especially needed were
						presented to the newly organized Lodge of Perfection at Fort Wayne.
					The year 1888 opened with a reception in the rooms of the Rite to all Master Masons on
						New Year's day, and this custom has been frequently observed since that time. Grand
						Secretary Cortez F. Holliday died March 5th, in consequence of which the approaching
						Convocation was postponed to April 17th. A crayon picture of Brother Holliday was
						secured and framed, and at the same time all members were requested to furnish cabinet
						photographs of themselves to be framed and placed in the social rooms. Joseph W. Smith
						was elected Grand Secretary March 14th, a position which he filled with credit and honor
						until his recent lamented death, November 30th, 1901.
					In 1889 additional ground in the rear of the building 
						already erected was purchased at a cost of five thousand dollars, and the by-laws were
						so amended as to require non-resident members who held membership in some body of the
						Rite elsewhere to pay only proportionate dues to the Indianapolis bodies in which they
						held membership. The courts were also petitioned to change the name of the body to
						"Adoniram Grand Lodge of Perfection, Ancient Accepted Scottish Rite, Northern Masonic
						Jurisdiction."
					In 1890 one hundred dollars was appropriated to the Indianapolis Firemen's Relief Fund.
						Charles F. Meyer was first elected Grand Treasurer during this year, a position which he
						still faithfully fills.
					July 29th, 1891, the venerable William Hacker, 330, died, at the age of eighty-one;
						February 14th, 1893, death claimed Past Grand Master Bruce Carr, 330, and February 22d,
						Dr. Charles E. Wright, 330. Each of these brethren had distinguished himself in the
						service of the Rite, and crayon portraits of them were ordered to decorate the social
						rooms.
					Early in 1894 the debt contracted in the purchase of grounds and buildings had been
						reduced to about thirteen thousand dollars, and steps were taken toward enlarging the
						latter by occupying the ground purchased in 1889, and the same was nearly completed and
						the old building remodeled and greatly improved at a cost of about twenty-four thousand
						dollars, when, on November 3d, fire swept the whole to destruction, including the
						valuable Hacker Masonic Library, and the Rite found 
						itself homeless, with a lot covered with almost worthless debris, and, after the
						adjustment of the insurance, a few thousand dollars with which to commence the work of
						rebuilding. Nothing daunted, the situation was bravely faced and steps immediately taken
						to erect a more magnificent Temple House, at a cost of some one hundred and fifty
						thousand dollars for building and equipment.
					The meetings of the Rite during the interim were held in the apartments of Raper
						Commandery, in Masonic Temple, while the Secretary's office was established in rooms on
						Maryland street near Meridian. Some difficulty arose in the settlement with the
						contractors on the burned building, but they were all in the end satisfactorily
						adjusted. Brother W. Scott Moore was selected as architect, and the building was erected
						according to his plans, the building committee being headed by Col. Nicholas R. Ruckle.
						The corner-stone, presented by Brother Charles Lilly, was laid by the Grand Lodge of
						Indiana on June 24th, 1895, thirteen hundred Masons being in line, and the oration being
						delivered by Judge Robert W. McBride.
					April 8th, 1896, it was provided that by the payment of one hundred dollars any
						resident member could become a life member, exempt from future dues, the same privilege
						being available to non-resident members by the payment of fifty dollars, and to members
						of the Fort Wayne bodies by the payment of twenty-five dollars. April 24th Dr. Phineas
						G. C. Hunt, one of the earliest and most active members, died, and his crayon portrait
						was  secured for the adornment of the rooms of the Rite.
						The new Temple House was first occupied November IIth. and was formally dedicated by
						Henry L. Palmer, Most Puissant Sovereign Grand Commander, November 30th.
					Ascension day services were held in the Temple House in 1898, being conducted by Rev.
						Andrew J. Graham, 320, Rector of Christ Church. Open house was kept for all Scottish
						Rite Masons who visited the National Encampment of the Knights of Pythias of that year.
						Col. Nicholas R. Ruckle was made a life member near the close of the year, as a slight
						token of the appreciation of his unremitting labors in behalf of the Rite.
					On May 2d, 1900, Thrice Potent Grand Master Ruckle presided at a business meeting of
						Adoniram Grand Lodge, although his health had been in a precarious condition for many
						months before, but death claimed him early on the morning of May 4th. Thus passed away
						one to whom more than to any one else is due the success that has crowned the work of
						the Rite in the Valley of Indianapolis. His. funeral services were conducted by the
						Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons, of which he was a Past Grand Master, and by the
						Scottish Rite, with Raper Commandery acting as an escort. It was one of the largest and
						most notable funerals ever seen in Indianapolis. On St. John's day, for which a festival
						had originally been planned, a lodge of sorrow was held in his memory, which was largely
						attended and was most impressive in its ceremonies.
					The membership of the Scottish Rite in Indianapolis  was
						of rather slow growth until the early eighties, but since that time it has grown most
						rapidly. The marked increase will be shown by the following figures :
					1870, two hundred and forty members; 1875, two hundred and ninety-seven members; 188o,
						three hundred and thirty-six members; 1885, seven hundred and forty-one members; 1890,
						nine hundred and seventy-five members; 1895, twelve hundred and eight members; 1900oo,
						eighteen hundred and forty-four members.
					The Rite now possesses property worth at least one hundred and twenty-five thousand
						dollars above all liabilities, and has a most promising future in every respect. Its
						social rooms are open every day and evening for the accommodation of the members, it
						being one of the very few Masonic bodies in the country that thus keeps open house
						continually. Although it is not of record, the Rite participated as a body in the
						ceremonies of the first Memorial day for the decoration of the graves of Union soldiers
						ever observed in Indianapolis. Among all the institutions of the city there is none of
						more public spirit, that stands higher or contributes more in its own chosen field to
						the fair fame of the Capital City of Indiana.
					The present officers of Adoniram Grand Lodge are:
					
						LEWIS E. MORRISON, Thrice Potent Grand Master.
						CHALMERS BROWN, Deputy Grand Master.
						ALEXANDER W. THOMSON, Senior Grand Warden.
						EDDY M. CAMPBELL, Junior Grand Warden.
						WILLIAM W. THORNTON, Grand Orator.




						
						CHARLES F. MEYER, Grand Treasurer.
						FRANcIs T. HOLLIDAY, Grand Secretary.
						JOHN E. MILNOR, Grand Hospitaler.
						JOHN W. STAUB, Grand Master of Ceremonies.
						THOMAS B. LINN, Grand Captain of the Guard.
						FRANK WILSON, Grand Tyler.
					

					
						THRICE POTENT GRAND MASTERS OF ADONIRAM LODGE OF
							PERFECTION FROM THE ORGANIZATION IN 1863 TO 1902.
						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						

						
							*1
							Caleb B. Smith
							Oct. 15, 1863, to Jan. 9, 1864
						
						
							1
							Edwin A. Davis
							Jan. 14, 1864, to Feb. 3, 1865
						
						
							9
							John Caven
							Feb. 3, 1865, to Feb. 11, 1874
						
						
							14
							Nicholas R. Ruckle
							Feb. 11, 1874, to Feb. 14, 1888
						
						
							2
							John T. Brush
							Feb. 14, 1888, to Feb. 12, 1890
						
						
							†10
							Nicholas R. Ruckle
							Feb. 12, 1890, to May 4, 1900
						
						
							2
							Charles L. Hutchinson
							May 4, 1900, to Feb. 12, 1902
						
						
							1
							Lewis E. Morrison
							Feb. 12, 1902, to —, 1903
						
					

					
						 SECRETARIES OF ADONIRAM GRAND LODGE OF PERFECTION FROM
							THE ORGANIZATION IN 1863 TO 1902.
						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							‡1
							Horace W. Smith
							Oct. 15, 1863, to May 11, 1864
						
						
							2
							Luther R. Martin
							May 11, 1864, to Feb. 3, 1866
						
						
							3
							George H. Fleming
							Feb. 3, 1866, to Feb. 3, 1869
						
						
							§2½
							Ephraim Hartwell
							Feb. 3, 1869, to Nov. 28, 1872
						
					
					*Died January 9th, 1864, and
						Edwin A. Davis chosen as his successor.
					†Died May 4th, 1900, and
						Charles L. Hutchinson served for the remainder of the term.
					‡‡James M. Tomlinson was
						acting Secretary during a considerable part of the term of Horace W. Smith.
					§Died November 28th, 1872,
						and was succeeded by Samuel Shelburn.



					
					
						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						

						
							1½
							Samuel Shelburn
							Nov. 28, 1872, to Feb. 11, 1874
						
						
							*2½
							Cortez F. Holliday
							Feb. 11, 1874, to Sept. 26, 1877
						
						
							3½
							Samuel J. Hillman
							Sept. 26, 1877, to Feb. 6, 1881
						
						
							†7
							Cortez F. Holliday
							Feb. 6, 1881, to March 5, 1888
						
						
							‡14½
							Joseph W. Smith
							March 14, 1888, to Nov. 30, 1901
						
						
							1½
							Francis T. Holliday
							Dec. 27, 1901, to —, 1903
						
					
					*Resigned September 26th,
						1877, and was succeeded by Samuel J. Hillman.
					‡Died November 30th, 1901,
						and was succeeded by Francis T. Holliday.
				

				
					

					SARAIAH COUNCIL PRINCES OF JERUSALEM, ANCIENT ACCEPTED SCOTTISH
						RITE.
					Saraiah Council Princes of Jerusalem, was organized at the same time by the same seven
						brethren that organized Adoniram Grand Lodge of Perfection, assisted by Enoch T. Carson,
						Grand Inspector General for Ohio and Indiana. Edwin A. Davis acted as the first Most
						Equitabke Sovereign Prince Grand Master and James M. Tomlinson as Grand Secretary, but
						the first full corps of officers was apparently not selected until May, 1865, when the
						following were chosen:
					
						PHINEAS G. C. HUNT, Most Equitable Sovereign Prince Grand Master.
						JOHN C. NEW, G. H. P. Deputy Grand Master.
						CHARLES A. RAY, M. E. Senior Grand Warden.
						JOHNCAVEN, M. E. Junior Grand Warden.
						JAMES W. HESS, V. Grand Treasurer.
						LUTHER R. MARTIN, V. Grand Secretary K. of S. and A.
						WILLIAM OSCAR STONE, V. Grand Master of Ceremonies.
						FRED M. HERRON, V. Grand Master of Entrances.
						COREY C. REEVES, V. Grand Tyler.
					


					
					
						THOMAS B. LINN, M.E. Senior Grand Warden. 
					
					
						EDDY M. CAMPBELL, M. E. Junior Grand Warden. 
					
					
						John W. STAUB, M. E. S. P. Grand Master.
					

					
						CHARLES F. MEYER, V. Grand Treasurer.
					

					
						FRANCIS T. HOLLIDAY, V. Grand Secretary.
					

					
						PRESENT OFFICERS OF SARAIAH COUNCIL PRINCES OF JERUSALEM.
					


					
					
						THOMAS J. Yoent, V. Grand Master of Ceremonies
					

					
						WILLIAM E. ENGLISH, V. Grand Master of Entrances.
					

					
						SAMUEL B. SWEET, G. H. P. Deputy Grand Master. 
					
					
						HORACE F. WOOD, V. Grand Almoner.
					

					
						FRANK WILSON, V. Grand Tyler.
					

					
						PRESENT OFFICERS OF SARAIAH COUN('IL PRINCES OF JERUSALEM.
					


					

					Like other similar bodies, the records of the council are not always complete in its
						early days, but its business largely, if not entirely, consisted in the election of
						candidates and conferring degrees.
					On May 19th, 1867, it is recorded that upon several petitions being presented, "The
						Council itself was made a committee on character and the opinion of the members present,
						pro and con, on the candidates to be given through secret ballots." All were
						elected.
					In 187o a thing so unusual as a trial was held in the Council, and the defendant
						pleaded guilty by proxy.
					The present officers of Saraiah Council are:

					
						JOHN W. STAUB, Most Equitable Sovereign Prince Grand Master.
						SAMUEL B. SWEET, G. H. P. Deputy Grand Master.
						THOMAS B. LINN, M. E. Senior Grand Warden.
						EDDY M. CAMPBELL, M. E. Junior Grand Warden.
						CHARLES F. MEYER, V. Grand Treasurer.
						FRANCIS T. HOLLIDAY, V. Grand Secretary, K. of S. and A.
						THOMAS J. YOUNT, V. Grand Master of Ceremonies.
						HORACE F. WOOD, V. Grand Almoner.
						WILLIAM E. ENGLISH, V. Grand Master of Entrances.
						FRANK WILSON, V. Grand Tyler.
					

					
						MOST EQUITABLE SOVEREIGN PRINCE GRAND MASTERS OF SARAIAH
							COUNCIL, PRINCES OF JERUSALEM FROM THE ORGANIZATION IN 1863 TO 1902.
						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							1
							Edwin A. Davis
							Feb., 1864, to May, 1865
						
						
							3½
							Phineas G. C. Hunt
							May, 1865, to Dec., 1868
						
						
							½
							William Oscar Stone
							Dec., 1868, to Jan., 1869
						
						
							8
							Phineas G. C. Hunt
							Jan., 1869, to Jan., 1877
						



						

						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							1
							Jacob W. Smith
							Jan., 1877, to Feb., 1878
						
						
							12
							Charles E. Wright
							Feb., 1878, to Feb., 1890
						
						
							11
							Charles L. Hutchinson
							Feb., 1890, to Jan., 1901
						
						
							2
							John W. Staub
							Jan., 1901, to —, 1903
						
					

					
						SECRETARIES OF SARAIAH COUNCIL, PRINCES OF JERUSALEM FROM
							THE ORGANIZATION IN 1863 To 1902.
						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							1
							James M. Tomlinson
							Feb., 1864, to Jan., 1865
						
						
							2
							Luther R. Martin
							Jan., 1865, to Dec., 1866
						
						
							2
							George H. Fleming
							Dec., 1866, to Jan., 1869
						
						
							3
							Ephraim Hartwell
							Jan., 1869, to Nov., 1872
						
						
							1
							Samuel Shelburn
							Nov., 1872, to Dec., 1873
						
						
							4
							Cortez F. Holliday
							Dec., 1873, to Nov., 1877
						
						
							3
							Samuel J. Hillman
							Nov., 1877, to Feb., 1881
						
						
							7
							Cortez F. Holliday
							Feb., 1881, to Mar., 1888
						
						
							14
							Joseph W. Smith
							Mar., 1888, to Nov., 1901
						
						
							1
							Francis T. Holliday
							Dec., 1901, to —, 1903
						
					




					
					
						ROSCOE O. HAWKINS, M.E. and P. K. Senior Warden.
					

					
						GEORGE W. SLOAN, M. E. and P. K. Junior Warden.
					

					
						BYRON K. ELLIOTT, Most Wise and Perfect Master.
					

					
						CHARLES F. MEYER, R. and P. K. Treasurer.
					

					
						FRANCIS T. HOLLIDAY, R. and P. K. Secretary.
					

					
						PRESENT OFFICERS OF INDIANAPOLIS CHAPTER OF ROSE CROIX.
					


					
					
						SAMUEL B. SWEET, R. and P. K. Hospitaler.
					

					
						LEWIS E. MORNRISN, M. E. and P. K. Grand Orator. 
					
					
						WILBUR F. BROWDER, R. andP. K. Master of Ceremonies.
					

					
						AHIRA R. WHITE, R. and P. K. Capt. of the Guard.
					

					
						FRANK WILSON, R. and P. K. Tyler.
					

					
						PRESENT OFFICERS OF INDIANAPOLIS CHAPTER OF ROSE CROIX.
					
				

				
					

					INDIANAPOLIS CHAPTER OF ROSE CROIX, ANCIENT ACCEPTED SCOTTISH
						RITE.
					Indianapolis Chapter of Rose Croix was organized March 7th, 1865, by the same seven
						brethren that organized Adoniram Grand Lodge of Perfection and Saraiah Council Princes
						of Jerusalem, and the first work done in the Chapter of Rose Croix was the conferring of
						the degrees at the same time on John Love, William J. H. Robinson, Edmund Clark,
						Theodore F. Holland and Corey C. Reeves. At the first regular election, held May ioth,
						1865, the officers elected were:
					
						JOHN LOVE, Most Wise and Perfect Master.
						THEODORE P. HAUGHEY, M. E. and P. K. Senior Warden.
						THEODORE F. HOLLAND, M. E. and P. K. Junior Warden.
						JAMES W. HESS, R. and P. K. Treasurer.
						LUTHER R. MARTIN, R. and P. K. Secretary.
						J. A. BUTTERFIELD, R. and P. K. Master of Ceremonies.
						JOHN J. GATES, R. and P. K. Captain of the Guard.
						COREY C. REEVES, R. and P. K. Tyler.
					



					

					The Chapter attended services at the First Christian Church, Rev. E. J. Gants, 32,
						pastor, on May 13th, 1888, and on May 22d, 1898, Ascension day services were held by the
						Rev. Andrew J. Graham, 320, rector of Christ Episcopal Church.
					The service of brethren in the office of Secretary has been substantially the same in
						the Chapter of Rose Croix as in the Council of Princes of Jerusalem.
					The present officers of Indianapolis Chapter of Rose Croix are:
					
						BYRON K. ELLIOTT, Most Wise and Perfect Master.
						RoscoE O. HAWKINS, M. E. and P. K. Senior Warden.
						GEORGE W. SLOAN, M. E. and P. K. Junior Warden.
						LEWIS E. MORRISON, M. E. and P. K. Grand Orator.
						CHARLES F. MEYER, R. and P. K. Treasurer.
						FRANCIS T. HOLLIDAY, R. and P. K. Secretary.
						SAMUEL B. SWEET, R. and P. K. Hospitaler.
						WILBuR F. BROWDER, R. and P. K. Master of Ceremonies.
						AHIRA R. WHITE, R. and P. K. Captain of the Guard.
						FRANK WILsoN, R. and P. K. Tyler.
					
					
						MOST WISE AND PERFECT MASTERS OF INDIANAPOLIS CHAPTER OF ROSE
							CROIX FROM THE ORGANIZATION IN 1865 TO 1902.
						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							2
							John Love
							May, 1865, to April, 1867
						
						
							5
							Jehiel Barnard
							April, 1867, to March, 1872
						
						
							3
							John H. Holliday
							March, 1872, to May, 1875
						
						
							3
							Charles E. Wright
							May, 1875, to May, 1878
						
						
							2
							Martin H. Rice
							May, 1878, to May, 1880
						
						
							3
							Austin H. Brown
							May, 1880, to May, 1883
						
						
							9
							Byron K. Elliott
							May, 1883, to —, 1902
						
					




					

					
						SECRETARIES OF INDIANAPOLIS CHAPTER OF ROSE CROIX FROM THE
							ORGANIZATION IN 1865 To 1902.
						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							2
							Luther R. Martin
							May, 1865, to April, 1867
						
						
							2
							George H. Fleming
							April, 1867, to April, 1869
						
						
							3
							Ephraim Hartwell
							April, 1869, to Nov., 1872
						
						
							1
							Samuel Shelburn
							Nov., 1872, to Dec., 1873
						
						
							4½
							Cortez F. Holliday
							Dec., 1873, to May, 1878
						
						
							2½
							Samuel J. Hillman
							May, 1878, to Dec., 1880
						
						
							7
							Cortez F. Holliday
							Dec., 1880, to March, 1888
						
						
							14
							Joseph W. Smith
							March, 1888, to Nov., 1901
						
						
							1
							Francis T. Holliday
							Dec., 1901, to —, 1902
						
					

				
				
					

					INDIANA SOVEREIGN CONSISTORY, ANCIENT ACCEPTED SCOTTISH
						RITE.
					The perfect number, seven, again appears as comprising the brethren that on March 7th,
						1865, organized Indiana Sovereign Consistory of Sublime Princes of the Royal Secret, and
						the degrees were first conferred by it March 8th, 1865, on the same candidates that had
						previously secured the Rose Croix degrees, the body being organized by Killian H. Van
						Rensselaer, Most Puissant Sovereign Grand Commander, with Horace W. Smith acting as
						Grand Secretary. At the election held May 12th following the officers elected were:
					
						EDWIN A. DAVIS, Illustrious Commander-in-Chief.
						PHINEAS G. C. HUNT, Illustrious First Lieutenant Commander.
						CHARLES A. RAY, Illustrious Second Lieutenant Commander.
						JOHN LOVE, Illustrious Minister of State.
						JOHN CAVEN, Illustrious Grand Chancellor.
						LUTHER R. MARTIN, Illustrious Grand Secretary and K. of S.


						
						
							WILLIAM J. McKEE, Ill. First Lieut. Commander.
						

						
							DUNCAN T. BACON, 111. Second Lient. Commander.
						

						
							HENRY C. ADAMS, 111. Commander-in-Chief.
						

						
							EDDY Mi. CAMPBELL, Ill. Min. of State and Gr. Orator.
						

						
							SAMUEL A. JOHNSON, Ill. Grand Chancellor.
						

						
							PRESENT OFFICERS OF INDIANA CONSISTORY.
						


						
						
							FRANK E. GAVIN, Ill. Gr. Engineer and Architect
						

						
							SAMUEL II. SWEET, Ill. Grand Hospitaler.
						

						
							JOHN T. BRUSH, Ill. Gr. Master of Ceremonies. 
						

						
							THOMAS J. YOUNT, Ill. Gr. Standard Bearer.
						

						
							THOMAS B, LINN, Ill. Gr. Captain of the Guard.
						

						
							PRESENT OFFICERS OF INDIANA CONSISTORY.
						




						

						JAMES W. HESS, Illustrious Grand Treasurer.
						THEODORE F. HOLLAND, Illustrious Grand Engineer and Architect.
						GEORGE F. MEYER, Illustrious Grand Standard Bearer.
						SAMUEL A. JOHNSON, Illustrious Grand Sentinel.
					

					The annual spring and fall Convocations held by this body in connection with the other
						bodies of the Rite have grown to be great occasions, and bring together leading Scottish
						Rite Masons from all parts of the State. The number of candidates composing the various
						convocation and local classes from the organization down to 19oo have been as
						follows:

					
						
							From
							Average per Class.
							Total for Four Years.
						
						
							1866 to 1870
							5
							22
						
						
							1871 to 1875
							13
							40
						
						
							1876 to 1880
							17
							86
						
						
							1881 to 1885
							35
							319
						
						
							1886 to 1890
							40
							399
						
						
							1891 to 1895
							52
							468
						
						
							1896 to 1900
							75
							676
						
					
					The class in the fall of 1899 numbered one hundred and thirty-two, and that in the
						spring of 19oo one hundred and twenty-five. The total membership in all the bodies now
						numbers two thousand four hundred and sixty.
					The present officers of Indiana Sovereign Consistory are:
					
						HENRY C. ADAMS, Illustrious Commander-in-Chief.
						WIuauA J. MCKEE, Ill. First Lieutenant Commander.




						

						DUNCAN T. BACON, Ill. Second Lieutenant Commander.
						EDDY M. CAMPBELL, Ill. Minister of State and Grand Orator.
						SAMUEL A. JOHNSON, Ill. Grand Chancellor.
						FRANCIS T. HOLLIDAY, Ill. Grand Secretary and K. of S.
						CHARLES F. MEYER, Ill. Grand Treasurer.
						FRANK E. GAVIN, Ill. Grand Engineer and Architect.
						SAMUEL B. SWEET, Ill. Grand Hospitaler.
						JOHN T. BRUSH, Ill. Grand Master of Ceremonies.
						THOMAS J. YOUNT, Ill. Grand Standard Bearer.
						THOMAS B. LINN, Ill. Grand Captain of the Guard.
						FRANK WILSON, Ill. Grand Sentinel.
					

					
						ILLUSTRIOUS COMMANDERS-IN-CHIEF OF INDIANA SOVEREIGN
							CONSISTORY FROM THE ORGANIZATION IN 1865 TO 1902.
						
							Number of Consecutive *Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							2
							Edwin A. Davis
							May, 1865, to Dec., 1870
						
						
							5
							Nicholas R. Ruckle
							Dec., 1870, to Dec., 1885
						
						
							1
							Joseph W. Smith
							Dec., 1885, to March, 1888
						
						
							2½
							Phineas G. C. Hunt
							March, 1888, to Nov., 1896
						
						
							1½
							Jacob W. Smith
							Nov., 1896, to Dec., 1900
						
						
							1
							Henry C. Adams
							Dec., 1900, to —, 1903
						
					

					


						SECRETARIES OF INDIANA SOVEREIGN CONSISTORY FROM THE
							ORGANIZATION IN 1865 To 1902.
						
							Number of Consecutive *
								Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						

						
							1
							Luther R. Martin
							May, 1865, to Dec., 1867
						
						
							1
							George H. Fleming
							Dec., 1867, to Dec., 1870
						
						
							½
							Ephraim Hartwell
							Dec., 1870, to Nov., 1872
						
						
							½
							Samuel Shelburn
							Nov., 1872, to Dec., 1873
						
						
							½
							Charles E. Wright
							Dec., 1873, to Jan., 1874
						
						
							1½
							Cortez F. Holliday
							Jan., 1874, to Dec., 1877
						
						
							1
							Samuel J. Hillman
							Dec., 1877, to Dec., 1880
						
						
							2½
							Cortez F. Holliday
							Dec., 1880, to March, 1888
						
						
							5½
							Joseph W. Smith
							March, 1888, to Nov., 1901
						
						
							1
							Francis T. Holliday
							Dec., 1901, to —1903
						
					
					*The term of office in the
						Consistory is for three years. The next regular election will occur in December, 1903. 




					
					OFFICIAL TABLEAUX. OF THE ANCIENT ACCEPTED SCOTTISH RITE VALLEY OF
						INDIANAPOLIS, JANUARY 1, 1902.
					
					DEPUTY FOR THE DISTRICT OF INDIANA. WILLIAM GEAKE, 33º.
					
					ACTIVE MEMBERS OF THE SUPREME COUNCIL. JOHN CAVEN, 33º.
						*JOSEPH W. SMITH, 33º,
						WILLIAM GEAKE, 33º

					
					
						HONORARY MEMBERS OF THE SUPREME COUNCIL. DISTRICT OF
							INDIANA.

						ALGERNON S. CHASE, 33º Ellsworth, Kan.


						HENRY G. THAYER, 33º Plymouth


						GILBERT W. DAVIS, 33º Fargo, North Dakota

						MARTIN H. RICE, 33º Indianapolis


						SYDNEY W. DOUGLAS, 33º Evansville

						JACOB W. SMITH, 33ºIndianapolis


						WALTER VAIL, 33º Michigan City


						JOHN L. BUTLER, 33º Cookeville, Tenn.

						WILLIAM J. ROBIE, 33º Richmond

						AUSTIN H. BROWN, 33º Indianapolis

						BYRON K. ELLIOTT, 33º Indianapolis

						JOHN T. BRUSH, 33º Indianapolis

						HENRY C. ADAMS, 33º Indianapolis


						SAMUEL B. SWEET, 33º Indianapolis


						WILLIAM H. SMYTHE, 33º Indianapolis

						CYRIL B. COLE, 33º Seymour

						JOHN W. CRUFT, 33º Terre Haute


						JOSEPH L. SMITH, 33º Richmond

						ROSCOE O. HAWKINS, 33º Indianapolis


						JAMES B. SAFFORD, 33º Crafton, Pa.

						

						GEORGE E. FARRINGTON, 33ºTerre Haute
						JACOB D. LEIGHTY, 33ºIndianapolis
						HENRY A. MOYER, 33ºKendallville
						GEORGE W. PIXLEY, 33ºFort Wayne
						CHARLES L. HUTCHINSON, 33ºIndianapolis
						AHIRA R. WHITE, 33ºIndianapolis
						WILLIAM J. MCKEE, 33ºIndianapolis
						MASON J. NIBLACK, 33ºVincennes
						MAHLON D. BUTLER, 33ºIndianapolis
						HENRY H. LANCASTER, 33ºLafayette
						WILLIAM H. SCHMIDT, 33ºIndianapolis
						GEORGE W. SLOAN, 33ºIndianapolis
						JOHN H. HOLLIDAY, 33ºIndianapolis
						NATHAN K. ELLIOTT, 33ºColumbus, Ohio
						JAMES P. COULTER, 33ºAurora
						JOHN H. BASS, 33ºFort Wayne
						JULIUS C. WOOD, 33ºMuncie
						ALONZO S. NICHOLS, 33ºMichigan City
						SIMEON P. GILLETT, 33ºEvansville
						HENRY W. MORDHURST, 33ºFort Wayne
						THOMAS R. MARSHALL, 33ºColumbia City
						WINFIELD T. DURBIN, 33ºAnderson
						JOHN A. THOMPSON, 33ºEdinburg
						JOHN W. STAUB, 33ºIndianapolis
						OLIVER B. SARGENT, 33ºLogansport
						GRANVILLE H. HULL, 33ºLafayette.
						FERDINAND F. BOLTZ, 33ºBluffton.
						JOHN H. NICHOLSON, 33ºRichmond.
						DAVID CAMMACK, 33ºMuncie.
						CHARLES F. GRIFFIN, 33ºHammond
						HUBERT J. MARSHALL, 33ºAurora
						ROBERT A. WOODS, 33ºPrinceton
						THEO. C. LAUGHLIN, 33ºNew Albany
						CHALMERS BROWN, 33ºIndianapolis
					
					*Died November 30th, 1901.
						Successor not yet selected. 


					
						OFFICERS OF THE COUNCIL OF DELIBERATION. DISTRICT OF
							INDIANA. THE DEPUTY FOR THE DISTRICT OF INDIANA, ex-officio, Ill.
							Commander-in-Chief.
						ILL. SAMUEL B. SWEET, 33º, First
							Lieutenant-Commander.
						*ILL. WILLIAM GEAKE, 33º,
								Second Lieutenant-Commander.
						*Appointed Deputy for
								Indiana January, 1902.




						

						ILL. SIMEON P. GILLETT, 33º, Grand Minister of State.
						ILL. OLIVER B. SARGENT, 33º, Grand Prior.
						ILL. JOHN H. HOLLIDAY, 33º, Grand Chancellor.
						ILL. GEORGE E. FARRINGTON, 33º, Grand Treasurer.
						*ILL. JOSEPH W. SMITH, 33º,
								Grand Secretary.
						ILL. GEORGE W. PIXLEY, 33º, Grand Hospitaler.
						ILL. HENRY H. LANCASTER, 33º, Grand Master of
							Ceremonies.
						ILL. WILLIAM J. ROBIE, 33º, Grand Standard Bearer.
						ILL. CYRL B. COLE, 33º, Grand Engineer and Architect.
						ILL. ROSCOE O. HAWKINS, 33º, Grand Captain of the
							Guard.
						ILL. AUSTIN H. BROWN, 33º, Grand Seneschal.

					
					*Died November 30th,
						1901.


					
						LIFE MEMBERS OF THE ANCIENT ACCEPTED SCOTTISH RITE VALLEY
							OF INDIANAPOLIS JANUARY 1, 1902.
						Walter B. Bassett, Indianapolis.
						Canada Button, Zionsville.
						Henry C. Calloway, Elwood.
						Cassius C. Curtis, Noblesville.
						George G. Darrow, Fort Wayne.
						William E. English, Indianapolis.
						Henry T. Haines, Fort Scott, Kas.
						James H. Kirkhoff, Indianapolis.
						D. Elery Leeson, Elwood.
						Eugene Runyan, New Castle.
						Roland S. Truitt, Noblesville.
						John F. Wild, Indianapolis.
					
					
						MEMBERS OF THE ANCIENT ACCEPTED SCOTTISH RITE. VALLEY OF
							INDIANAPOLIS JANUARY 1, 1902.
						NOTE.—Owing to its length, the Roster of Members of the Ancient Accepted
							Scottish Rite, Valley of Indianapolis, is omitted here, but it will be found in full
							in the Appendix. See page 253.
					



				

				
					

					MURAT TEMPLE, ANCIENT ORDER OF NOBLES OF THE MYSTIC
						SHRINE.
					November 17th, 1882, John T. Brush, Charles F. Meyer, Henry H. McGaffey, Theodore
						Pfafflin and Cortez F. Holliday, of Indianapolis, were initiated into the mysteries of
						the Ancient Order of Nobles of the Mystic Shrine, in Syrian Temple, at Cincinnati, Ohio,
						and on March 13th, 1884, a dispensation from the Imperial Council of North America to
						organize Murat Temple, John T. Brush being named as Illustrious Potentate, was issued to
						the above named Nobles, together with Charles B. Harris, of Goshen, Indiana, and F. C.
						Eckelman and John W. Parke, of Elkhart, Indiana. On October 3oth the orders were
						conferred upon John G. Blake, Cyrus J. Dobbs, Phineas G. C. Hunt, Jacob W. Smith, John
						Sanders, Oliver W. Williams, William H. Burke, Byron K. Elliott, William S. Rich, Joseph
						W. Smith, Joseph W. Sherwood and Charles E. Wright, and officers were elected as
						follows:
					
						JOHN T. BRUSH, Illustrious Potentate.
						THEODORE PFAFFLIN, Chief Rabban.
						PHINEAS G. C. HUNT, Assistant Rabban.
						BYRON K. ELLIOTT, High Priest.
						JACOB W. SMITH, Oriental Guide.
						CHARLES F. MEYER, Treasurer.
						CORTEZ F. HOLLIDAY, Recorder.
					


					
					
						ROSCOE O. HAWKINS, Chief Rabban.
					

					
						ALEXANDER W. THOMSON, Assistant Rabban.
					

					
						CIIALMERS BROWN, Illustrious Potentate.
					

					
						WILBUR F. BROWDER, High Priest.
					

					
						FRANK P. WADE. Oriental Guide.
					

					
						PRINCIPAL OFFICERS OF MURAT TEMPLE.
					


					
					

					On November 24th the Nobles of Syrian Temple, Cincinnati, represented by twenty-four
						members, visited Indianapolis and conferred the Orders on fifteen candidates for the
						local Temple.
					In June, 1887, the Imperial Council of North America held its annual meeting in
						Indianapolis, and the members of the Imperial Body were royally entertained by the
						Nobles of Murat Temple.
					The charities of the Nobles of Murat Temple have always been dispensed with a liberal
						hand, one hundred dollars being donated to the Newsboys' Home in October, 1887; one
						hundred dollars to yellow fever sufferers at Jacksonville, Florida, September, 1888; one
						hundred dollars to sufferers from the flood at Johnstown, Pennsylvania, June, 1889; one
						hundred dollars to Indianapolis Firemen's relief fund, March, 189o, and annually at
						Christmas, since 1896, distributions of food and other necessaries have been made to the
						poor of Indianapolis, at an average expenditure of over two hundred and fifty dollars
						for each of these years. On Christmas of 1900 the Murat Charity Committee, composed of
						Charles L. Hutchinson, Eddy M. Campbell, Wilbur F. Browder, Ohio L. Wade and William E.
						English, distributed five hundred dollars, by order of the Temple, among the poor and
						needy of Indianapolis, and upon Christmas of 190o a similar committee, composed of James
						W. Lilly, Ohio L. Wade, Charles H. Furgason, Horace F. Wood and Samuel Townsend, made a
						like distribution of one hundred and fifty baskets of provisions.



					

					After the decease of Cortez F. Holliday, the first R Recorder of the Indianapolis
						Shrine, March 5th, 1888, an appropriate monument was erected over his grave in Crown
						Hill Cemetery by Murat Temple, which was dedicated with impressive ceremonies.
					May 14th, 1891, Murat Temple visited Fort Wayne, Indiana, and conferred the Orders upon
						thirty-six candidates of that city.
					May 25th, 1892, a large number of Nobles of Syrian Temple, Cincinnati, witnessed the
						work of the Indianapolis Shrine, and a return visit was made by Murat Temple in October
						following.
					February i7th, 1893, a notable entertainment was given to the Murat Shriners and their
						lady friends, which has been annually repeated.
					March 14th, 1893, a Shrine theater party was given, a large number of Nobles of Murat
						Temple and their ladies attending the performance of Noble De Wolf Hopper and company at
						English's Opera House.
					March 3oth, 1894, the Imperial Potentate of the Imperial Council of North America was
						present, witnessing the conferring of the Orders by Murat Temple on forty-three
						candidates.
					The meetings of Murat Temple have always been held in the Scottish Rite Temple House,
						when the Rite has possessed one. During the period after the destruction of the Temple
						House by fire and before its rebuilding, ,meetings were held in the rooms of Raper
						Commandery, Knights Templar, in Masonic Hall, corner of Washington 
						
							CORTEZ F. HOLLIDAY, First Recorder of Murat Temple
						. 
						 street and Capitol avenue. However, on December i3th,
						1895, the orders were conferred on several candidates in Tomlinson Hall.

					In December, 1894, after a service of ten years as Illustrious Potentate, John T. Brush
						requested that some other Noble should be chosen to that office, but his request was not
						complied with and he continued to serve in that capacity until December, 1897, when
						Noble Chalmers Brown succeeded him. In presenting his request to his fellow-Nobles,
						Illustrious Potentate Brush said:
					"Every novice who has been honored by our Temple with a membership, and permitted to
						assume our vow, has possessed the prerequisite of the 32d degree Ancient Accepted
						Scottish Rite. In this respect Murat Temple stands without a peer among the Temples of
						America. Our membership has been gathered from the best citizenship sof Indiana, and is
						representative of a very high order of intelligence and influence. To belong to Murat
						Temple is an honor that any may well covet. Whatever success has fallen to Murat is due
						to the earnest and active co-operation of its officers and members. They each and all
						have exhibited an enthusiasm and zeal to a remarkable degree, and to this fact and this
						alone may the future Shrine historian ascribe the secret of our substantial growth."
						That the zeal and enthusiasm so eloquently referred to by Noble Brush still continue in
						full force the present historian bears cheerful testimony.
					May 25th, 1895, the Orders were conferred upon eight 
						candidates of Murat Temple in Medinah Temple, of the city of Chicago.
					December 4th, 1896, the largest class in the history of Murat Temple was received,
						there being one hundred and seventy-four novices.
					January Ist, 1897, the fee was raised to fifty dollars, it having previously been
						twenty-five dollars. The dues have steadily remained at three dollars per annum without
						change. The finances of the Temple have always been in a flourishing condition, the
						assets at this time being in the neighborhood of ten thousand dollars, while the growth
						in membership, from the organization in 1884 down to the close of 1901, has been
						uniformly steady, as is shown by the following table:
					
						
							Year.
							Members.
						
						
							1884
							38
						
						
							1885
							105
						
						
							1886
							150
						
						
							1887
							184
						
						
							1888
							232
						
						
							1889
							294
						
						
							1890
							342
						
						
							1891
							392
						
						
							1892
							532
						
						
							1893
							614
						
						
							1894
							650
						
						
							1895
							696
						
						
							1896
							863
						
						
							1897
							899
						
						
							1898
							927
						
						
							1899
							1043
						
						
							1900
							1097
						
						
							1901
							1305
						
					




					There have been but ninety deaths since the organization of the Temple, and the average
						membership for the eighteen years has been five hundred and seventy-five.






					The present officers of Murat Temple are:
					
						CHALMERS BROWN, Illustrious Potentate, Scherif Sultana.
						RoscoE O. HAWKINS, Chief Rabban, Scherif al Emir.
						ALEX. W. THOMSON, Assistant Rabban, Scherif al Sahib.


						

						WILBUR F. BROWDER, High Priest, Scherif al Imam.
						FRANK P. WADE, Oriental Guide, Scherif al Ayn.
						CHARLES F. MEYER, Treasurer, Scherif al Miri.
						FRANCIS T. HOLLIDAY, Recorder, Scherif al Katib.
						EDDY M. CAMPBELL, 1st Ceremonial Master, Scherif al Wakil.
						DENTON F. BILLINGSLY, 2d Ceremonial Master, Scherif al Alam.
						ALBERT DALLER, 1st Alchemist, Scherif Sulm al Ciemiya.
						CHARLES T. MACINTIRE, 2d Alchemist, Scherif Sulm al Ciemiya.
						JOHN H. ALBRIGHT, 3d Alchemist, Scherif al Dryafort.
						HARRY B. SMITH, Marshal, Scherif al Amal.
						THEODORE BENNETT, Captain of the Guard, Scherif al Rays.
						CHARLES LAUER, Inner Guard, Scherif al Hafiz.
						FRANK WILSON, Outer Guard, Scherif al Sala.
						EDWIN R. LEWIS, Interpreter, Scherif al Arabic Terjoman.
						HARRY J. GRAHAM, G. R. L.
						HORACE E. SMITH, G. R. L.
					


					
						ILLUSTRIOUS POTENTATES OF MURAT TEMPLE FROM THE ORGANIZATION IN 1884
							TO 1902.
						
							Number of Consecutive Terms
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						

						
							14
							John T. Brush
							March 13, 1884, to Dec. 24, 1897
						
						
							5
							Chalmers Brown
							Dec. 24, 1897, to —, 1902
						
					

					
						RECORDERS OF MURAT TEMPLE FROM THE ORGANIZATION IN 1884 TO
							1902.
						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name. 
							Time of Service.
						
						
							*4½
							Cortez F. Holliday
							March 13, 1884, to March 5, 1888
						
						
							†13½
							Joseph W. Smith
							March 5, 1888, to Nov. 30, 1901
						
						
							1
							Francis T. Holliday
							Dec. 27, 1901, to —, 1902
						
					
					*Died March 5th, 1888.
					†Died November 30th,
						1901.
					
						DECEASED MEMBERS OF MURAT TEMPLE FROM THE ORGANIZATION IN 1884
							TO 1902.
						Baker, Albert R., Indianapolis.Briggs, Joseph H., Terre
								Haute.
						Baldwin, Edgar S., Greenfield.Brink, Christian,
								Indianapolis.
						Biegler, John C., Indianapolis.Buschmann, Louis F.,
								Indianapolis.
						Bishop, Isadore M., Brazil.Carr, Bruce, Indianapolis.
						Boudinot, Henry H., Terre Haute.Cearns, Wm. J., New
							Albany.
						Branham, George F., Indianapolis.Charles, Albert P.,
								Seymour.





						

						Chisnell, Harry G., Kokomo.McLallen, E. L., Columbia
							City.
						Coffinbury, H. N., Garrett.Manning, J. A., Michigan
							City.
						Collins, Finley S., Seymour.Miller, John A.,
							Lafayette.
						Daggett, Chas. M., Terre Haute.Moore, F. M., Moberly,
							Mo.
						Dawson, Chas. M., Ft. Wayne.Moorman, Orange W.,
								Indianapolis.
						DeVay, Wm. O., South Bend.Morris, William P., Fort
							Wayne.
						Divine, Calvin L., Indianapolis.Morrow, Alfred J.,
								Indianapolis.
						Dobbs, Cyrus J., Indianapolis.Newcomer, Frisby S.,
								Indianapolis.
						Dodge, Will W., Mishawaka.Nye, Mortimer, LaPorte.
						Donivan, Joseph A., Indianapolis.Oldendorff, Samuel D.,
								Thorntown.
						Drake, Moses C., Ladoga.Pettit, Wm. F., Shawnee, Md.
						Dresser, Jasper M., Lafayette.Pfingst, George F.,
								Indianapolis.
						Drover, Henry F., Huntington.Pressler, Guido R.,
								Indianapolis.
						Eldridge, George R., Delphi.Reichwein, Philip,
							Indianapolis.
						Fletcher, James L., Indianapolis.Richardson, D. A.,
								Indianapolis.
						Fletcher, Wm. M., Indianapolis.Robertson, Omer A.,
								Indianapolis.
						Gall, Edmund F., Indianapolis.Ross, Edward C.,
							Evansville.
						Gauntt, Adin W., Chattanooga, Ten.Ruckle, Nicholas R.,
								Indianapolis.
						Gordon, Samuel P., Greenfield.Saunders, John,
							Indianapolis.
						Gray, Ellis N., Richmond.Sankey, James M., Terre
							Haute.
						Hart, Malcolm T., Crown Point.Slattery, M. M., Ft.
							Wayne.
						Hermance, T. L., Hightstown, N. J.Smith, Joseph W.,
								Indianapolis.



						Hill, Alexander W., Wabash.Soper, Delatus,
							Indianapolis.
						Hoffman, Frank, Indianapolis.Staub, Joseph,
							Indianapolis.
						Holliday, Cortez F., Indianapolis.Suit, Joseph C.,
								Frankfort.
						Hovey, Frank H., Indianapolis.Swope, Francis M.,
							Seymour.
						Humphreys, John, Indianapolis.Taggart, Robert, Decatur,
							Ill.
						Hunt, P. G. C., Indianapolis.Thalman, Isaac,
							Indianapolis.
						Hyatt, Wilson T., Crothersville.Thompson, Geo. E.,
								Huntington.
						Johnson, Daniel W., Terre Haute.Tiller, L. H.,
							Michigantown.
						King, Harry, Indianapolis.Townley, Geo. F.,
							Indianapolis.
						Knott, I. M., Beavertown, Pa.Vajen, Willis C.,
							Indianapolis.
						Kopp, Albert F., Indianapolis.Williams, S. T.,
							Kendallville.
						Krauss, Wm. G., Indianapolis.Wilson, Joseph,
							Washington.
						Land, Horatio N., Richmond.Woodward, C. E.,
							Washington.
						Lesh, John H., Goshen.Woodward, S. G., Indianapolis.
						McClellan, C. A. O., Auburn.Woods, Chas. W., Michigan
							City.
						McClure, John H., Fort Wayne.Wright, Charles E.,
								Indianapolis.
						McGaffey, Henry H., Indianapolis.Zollinger, Chas. A., Ft.
								Wayne.
					

					MEMBERS OF MURAT TEMPLE JANUARY 1, 1902.
					NOTE.—Owing to its length, the Roster of Members of Murat Temple is omitted here,
						but it will be found in full in the Appendix. See page 280.
				
				
				
					WILLIAIM F. BARROWS.
				
				
					EDWARD W. BKARROWS.
				

				
					ROBERT W. McBRIDE.
				

				
					JAMES E. BODINE.
				
				
					HERVEY B. FATOUT.
				
				
					WORTHY PATRONS OF QUEEN ESTHER CHAPTER In recent years.
				





				
				
				
					QUEEN ESTHER CHAPTER, NO. 3, ORDER OF EASTERN STAR.
					Queen Esther Chapter, No. 3, Order of Eastern Star, which occupied the Eastern Star
						field in Indianapolis alone for over twenty-one years, was not first established under
						dispensation, as is usual, but was directly chartered April 4th, 1872, with the
						following list of Charter members:

					
						Margaret N. Secrist,
						Mary A. Taylor,
						Annie Mather,
						Eliza Stephens,
						Mary Kirkwood,
						Mary Sherburne,
						Abigail Gottschall,
						Sarah W. Burns,
						Annetta S. Farra,
						Ellen Sherburne,
						Maria R. Chase,
						John Caven,
						William M. Black.
					

					Among the Past Worthy Matrons and Past Worthy Patrons of Queen Esther Chapter are many
						whose names have been prominent in the Masonic and the Eastern Star world. Among them
						are Past Worthy Grand Matron of the General Grand Chapter Mrs. Nettie Ransford, Past
						Grand Matron of Indiana Mrs. Olive E. McGrew, Past Grand Matron of Connecticut Mrs.
						Addie C. S. Engle,  Past Grand Patron of Indiana Edward W.
						Barrows, Past Grand Secretary of the General Grand Chapter and Past Grand Patron of
						Indiana Willis D. Engle, and Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge Bruce Carr.


					The present officers of Queen Esther Chapter are:
					
						MISS STELLA V. ROGERS, Worthy Matron.
						MR. WILLIAM R. EVANS, Worthy Patron.
						MRS. ABBIE H. FREELAND, Associate Matron.
						MRS. NETTIE RANSFORD, Secretary.
						MRS. JENNIE MILLER, Treasurer.
						MRS. JENNIE B. CLAPP, Conductress.
						MRS. SARAH M. WITTHOFF, Associate Conductress.
						Miss JESSIE MOORE, Adah.
						MRS. BERTHA M. LUFT, Ruth.
						MRS. DAISY M. STARR, Esther.
						MISS MINNIE E. CoWAN, Martha.
						MRS. ZELPHA PEAKE, Electra.
						MRS. MARIA B. DAUGHERTY, Warder.
						MRS. SARAH W. BURNS, Sentinel.
						MRs. ELLA D. ZINN, Chaplain.
						MRS. CATHERINE BODINE, Marshal.
						MRS. BESSIE S. STEPHENS, Organist.
					

					
						WORTHY MATRONS OF QUEEN ESTHER CHAPTER FROM THE ORGANIZATION IN
							1872 To 1902.
						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							2
							Abigail Gottschall
							April 4, 1872, to Dec., 1873
						
						
							1
							Mary A. Taylor
							Dec., 1873, to Dec., 1874
						
						
							3
							Nettie Ransford
							Dec., 1874, to Dec., 1877
						
						
							1
							Patience A. Hampton
							Dec., 1877, to Dec., 1878
						
						
							1
							Clara M. Meredith
							Dec., 1878, to Dec:, 1879
						
						
							1
							Mary C. Moulton
							Dec., 1879, to Dec., 1880
						
						
							1
							Melissa I. Drummond
							Dec., 1880, to Dec., 1881
						
						
							1
							Mary A. Gould
							Dec., 1881, to Dec., 1882
						
						
							1
							Mary A. Sharp
							Dec., 1882, to Dec., 1883
						
						
							1
							Mary A. Gould
							Dec., 1883, to Dec., 1884
						
					



					
					
						HON. JOHN CRAVEN, First Worthy Patron of Queen Esther
							Chapter. Ex-Mayor of Indianapolis.
					


					
					

					
						QUEEN ESTHER CHAPTER

						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							1
							Nettle Ransford
							Dec., 1884, to Dec., 1885
						
						
							1
							Kate Metcalf
							Dec., 1885, to Dec., 1886
						
						
							1
							Lizzie Louthan
							Dec., 1886, to Dec., 1887
						
						
							1
							Melissa M. Blodgett
							Dec., 1887, to Dec., 1888
						
						
							1
							Minnie E. Christman
							Dec., 1888, to Dec., 1889
						
						
							1
							Lizzie J. Smythe
							Dec., 1889, to Dec., 1890
						
						
							1
							Carrie M. Saylor
							Dec., 1890, to Dec., 1891
						
						
							1
							Isabel Ingersoll
							Dec., 1891, to Dec., 1892
						
						
							1
							Effie B. Kennington
							Dec., 1892, to Dec., 1893
						
						
							1
							Nathalie Connelly
							Dec., 1893, to Dec., 1894
						
						
							1
							Adel L. Hayes
							Dec., 1894, to Dec., 1895
						
						
							1
							Lizzie J. Crowe
							Dec., 1895, to Dec., 1896
						
						
							1
							Clara Holderman
							Dec., 1896, to Dec., 1897
						
						
							1
							Cora B. Edmunds
							Dec., 1897, to Dec., 1898
						
						
							1
							Ida C. Weaver
							Dec., 1898, to Dec., 1899
						
						
							1
							May Simmons
							Dec., 1899, to Dec., 1900
						
						
							1
							Ella H. Billings
							Dec., 1900, to Dec., 1901
						
						
							1
							Stella V. Rogers
							Dec., 1901, to —, 1902
						
					

					
						WORTHY PATRONS OF QUEEN ESTHER CHAPTER FROM THE ORGANIZATION IN
							1872 TO 1902.
						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							2
							John Caven
							April 4, 1872, to Dec., 1873
						
						
							4
							Willis D. Engle
							Dec., 1873, to Dec., 1877
						
						
							1
							Martin H. Rice
							Dec., 1877, to Dec., 1878
						
						
							1
							Rodman J. Moulton
							Dec., 1878, to Dec., 1879
						
						
							*½
							Byron B. Eaton
							Dec., 1879, to May, 1880
						
						
							½
							Derk DeRuiter
							May, 1880 to Dec., 1880
						
						
							1
							Wash. I. Bartholomew
							Dec., 1880, to Dec., 1881
						
						
							†½
							Richard B. Griffith
							Dec., 1881, to Aug., 1882
						
						
							½
							Martin H. Rice
							Aug., 1882, to Dec., 1882
						
						
							1
							Derk DeRuiter
							Dec., 1882, to Dec., 1883
						
						
							1
							John H. Humann
							Dec., 1883, to Dec., 1884
						
						
							2
							William H. Smythe
							Dec., 1884, to Dec., 1886
						
						
							1
							Bruce Carr
							Dec., 1886, to Dec., 1887
						
						
							1
							William H. Smythe
							Dec., 1887, to Dec., 1888
						




						

						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							2
							Chester Bradford
							Dec.,1888, to Dec., 1890
						
						
							1
							William F. Barrows
							Dec., 1890, to Dec., 1891
						
						
							2
							Martin H. Rice
							Dec., 1891, to Dec., 1893
						
						
							1
							Edward W. Barrows
							Dec., 1893,to Dec., 1894
						
						
							1
							Robert W. McBride
							Dec.,1894, to Dec., 1895
						
						
							2
							Edward W. Barrows
							Dec., 1895, to Dec., 1897
						
						
							2
							Hervey B. Fatout
							Dec., 1897,to Dec., 1899
						
						
							1
							James E. Bodine
							Dec., 1899, to Dec., 1900
						
						
							1
							Hervey B. Fatout
							Dec., 1900, to Dec., 1901
						
						
							1
							William R. Evans
							Dec., 1901, to — , 1902
						
					

					*Died May, 1880, and was
						succeeded by Derk DeRuiter.
					†Resigned August, 1882, and
						was succeeded by Martin H. Rice.

					
						SECRETARIES OF QUEEN ESTHER CHAPTER FROM THE ORGANIZATION IN
							1872 To 1902.
						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						


						
							3
							Eliza Stephens
							April 4, 1872, to Dec., 1874
						
						
							4
							Melissa I. Drummond
							Dec., 1874, to Dec. 1878
						
						
							2
							Mary T. Lodge
							Dec., 1878, to Dec., 1880
						
						
							1
							Clara M. Meredith
							Dec., 1880, to Dec., 1881
						
						
							2
							Mary E. Engle
							Dec., 1881, to Dec., 1883
						
						
							1
							Marie Haslep
							Dec., 1883, to Dec., 1884
						
						
							2
							Mary E. Engle
							Dec., 1884, to Dec., 1886
						
						
							*2½
							Nettie Ransford
							Dec., 1886, to June, 1889
						
						
							½
							Hattie H. Hecker
							June, 1889, to Oct., 1889
						
						
							2
							Mary E. Engle
							Oct., 1889, to Dec., 1891
						
						
							11
							Nettie Ransford
							Dec., 1891, to — , 1902
						
					
					*Resigned and was succeeded
						by Hattie Humann Hecker.

					

						MEMBERS OF QUEEN ESTHER CHAPTER JANUARY 1, 1902.

						Armstrong, Mrs. R. R.Beem, Mrs. Alice C.
						Bacon, Duncan T.Billings, Mrs. Ella H.
						Bacon, Mrs. Fannie M.Blackledge, Miss Mame
						Barrows, Edward W.Blodgett, Frederick
						Barrows, Mrs. Ella H.Blodgett, Mrs. Melissa M.
						Barrows, W. F.Bodine, Mrs. Catherine
						Bartholomew, Mrs. G. C.Bodine, James E.
						Bartholomew, W. I.Booz, Mrs. Matilda
						Barker, Mrs. AnnieBowman, Miss Nellie
						Beck, Mrs. SadieBradford, Mrs. Carrie F.


						

						Bradford, HunterDixon, Mrs. Ellen
						Branson, Mrs. MariaDeRuiter, Mrs. Laura E.
						Bray, Mrs. Florence W.Deitz, Emil
						Bristol, Mrs. MaryDrummond, Mrs. M. I.
						Brokaw, Elmer ZellEastbourn, Mrs. Carrie L.
						Brown, Mrs. FloraEchols, Henry H.
						Brown, Mrs. Elizabeth Z.Echols, Mrs. Rebecca
						Burns, Mrs. Georgia S.Edmunds, Mrs. Cora B.
						Burns, Mrs. Sarah W.Endsley, George W.
						Cain, Mrs. Ada C.Endsley, Mrs. Lulu
						Cain, John C.Endsley, Mrs. Esther
						Canaan, Mrs. Anna E.Engle, Mrs. Addie C. S.
						Canaan, Miss Clara L.Engle, Mrs. Addie C. S.
						Carpenter, Mrs. ElizabethEngle, Willis D.
						Carpenter, James B.Erther, Mrs. Claudia
						Carson, Mrs. Daisy AlleyEusey, Mrs. Lena E.
						Caven, JohnEvans, William R.
						Chamness, Mrs. Ora M.Fatout, Hervey B.
						Clapp, Mrs. Jennie B.Fatout, Miss Pearl R.
						Clark, Miss AllieFaulkner, Mrs. Hattie
						Clark, Mrs. Melissa E.Feller, Mrs. Caroline
						Clark, Mrs. Jennie H.Fitzgerald, Miss Eva M.
						Cleaveland, Mrs. NettieForsha, Mrs. Ella J.
						Cochran, William M.Frank, Mrs. Addie D.
						Cochran, Mrs. Eliza J.Frank, Mrs. Becky
						Connelly, Miss Louisa F.Frank, Isaac
						Cook, Mrs. Olive VanC.Freeland, Mrs. Abbie H.
						Cook, Mrs. Louisa M.Geyer, Mrs. C. W.
						Cook, T. V.Gilmore, Miss Edna F. B.
						Cowan, Miss Nannie B.Goddard, Mrs. Mary A.
						Craig, Miss Agnes S.Goddard, Miss Clara E.
						Craig, Miss ElizabethGuion, Mrs. Mary Catherine
						Crawford, Mrs. RoseHall, Charles D.
						Crawford, Edward G.Halpin, Mrs. Carrie
						Crockett, Mrs. Clara BelleHampton, J. B.
						Crosley, MarionHampton, Mrs. P. A.
						Daggy, Mrs. Olive H.Hampton, Mrs. C. Rose
						Daily, Mrs. MarthaHarrison, Miss Grace
						Daily, William A.Harrison, Mrs. Alice
						Daugherty, Mrs. Maria B.Harrison, Thomas G.
						Davis, Mrs. Ora OsborneHatton, Mrs. Alice V.
						Davis, Mrs. Nannie LeeHawkins, Mrs. Louisa
						Dildine, Mrs. Arie A.Hayes, Joseph R.

						

						Hayes, Mrs. Adel L.McGrew, Miss Lena
						Hecker, Mrs. Hattie H.McGrew, James W.
						Henry, Samuel C.McGrew, Mrs. Olive E.
						Hitshue, Mrs. FannieMcNeely, Mrs. Kittie Keyhoe
						Hoffman, Mrs. JennieMaddox, Mrs. Arra A.
						Holderman, Mrs. ClaraManning, Chauncey A.
						Hornshu, Fred C.Manning, Mrs. Katherine
						Hornshu, Mrs. Carrie E.Maxwell, Mrs. Mary Helen
						Horne, Mrs. Lulu IonaMatlock, Mrs. Louisa
						Howard, Mrs. Sallie J.Meredith, Miss Emma S.
						Humann, Mrs. HarrietMeredith, Mrs. Jane
						Hoster, Mrs. M. C.Mtcalf, Miss Katee
						Iglick, Mrs. RosaMitten, Mrs. Love V. M.
						Iliff, James A.Moulton, Mrs. Mary C.
						Ingersoll, Miss Mary H.Moulton, Rodman J.
						Ingersoll, Mrs. IsabelMiller, Mrs. Jennie
						Isgrigg, Mrs. Julia F.Moore, Mrs. Ursla
						Isgrigg, William H.Moore, Mrs. Annie F.
						Jackson, Mrs. AltheaMoore, Miss Jessie
						Jacobs, Mrs. Theresa A.New, Mrs. Kate
						Jenkins, Mrs. Laura A.Oddy, Mrs. Ida M.
						Johnson, Miss Hattie B.Olive, Mrs. Carrie
						Johnson, Samuel A.Osborne, Mrs. Jennie
						Kamps, Mrs. Mary J.Page, Mrs. Cynthia M.
						Kennington, Mrs. Effe B.Page, Thomas V.
						Lafeber, Mrs. HattiePeake, Mrs. Zelpha
						LecClier, Mrs. CityPeake, Benj. J.
						Lee, Charles F.Pearce, Miss May
						Lee, Mrs. FlorencePearce, Mrs. Mary
						Leist, Mrs. MaryPearce, W. C.
						LePage, Mrs. LouisePerry, Mrs. Anna Elvia
						Lewis, Mrs. ElizabethPettinger, Mrs. Ida Jessie
						Linn, Miss Lillie A.Raffensperger, Mrs. A.
						Logan, Mrs. Anna B.Rahm, Mrs. Bertha
						Louthan, Miss May I.Ramsey, Mrs. Nellie
						Louthan, Mrs. LizzieRansford, Mrs. Nettle
						Lowe, Mrs. MayRasener, Mrs. Jennie
						Luft, Mrs. Bertha M.Rodenberger, Mrs. Isabel
						McBride, Robert W.Rodenberger, Samuel
						McBride, Mrs. Ida S.Rogers, Miss Stella V.
						McClellan, Mrs. Elvira S.Root, Mrs. Nellie
						McClellan, Miss E.Royster, Mrs. Jessie C.
						McCord, Mrs. C. L.Sanders, C. J.
						

						Saylor, Miss Carrie M.Traub, Mrs. Sarah E.
						Schmidt, Mrs. Ida B.Twiname, Mrs. L. B.
						Schooley, Mrs. IsabellaVanTilburgh, Mrs. Kate
						Schroer, Mrs. Bettie L.Waide, Mrs. Sarah E.
						Seward, Mrs. AramintaWalker, Mrs. C. B. Shirley
						Sharp, Mrs. Mary A.Wall, Mrs. Margaret
						Sharp, Stephen O.Ward, Mrs. Minnie
						Sharp, Mrs. LouiseWaters, Mrs. Leah
						Simmons, Mrs. Ada C.Waters, Miss Cora
						Simmons, Miss MayWeakley, Mrs. Ella
						Simmons, Oliver M.Weaver, Harry E.
						Sipe, Jacob C.Weaver, Mrs. Ida C.
						Sipe, Mrs. MabelWebb, Mrs. Sarah E.
						Smith, Mrs. EllaWebb, William
						Spafford, Thomas E.Weinburg, Mrs. Mary E.
						Speer, Mrs. ParmeliaWestcott, Mrs. Grace S.
						Speer, James W.Whiting, Mrs. Mary
						Starr, Mrs. Daisy I.Wiley, Mrs. Mary A.
						Stephens, Miss Bessie S.Wilson, Mrs. A. G.
						Stephens, Mrs. E. B.Wilson, Mrs. Margaret A.
						Stephens, Mrs. LouellaWinterrowd, Mrs. R. E.
						Stephens, SamuelWinter, Jacob H.
						Stewart, Mrs. ElizabethWinter, Mrs. Antoinette
						Stout, Mrs. Maggie M.Witthoft, August
						Stout, Edward E.Witthoft, Mrs. Sarah M.
						Stout, Horace A.Witthoft, Mrs. Lou
						Sulcer, Mrs. Mary J.Witthoft, Charles
						TenEyck, Miss Ida M.Woodbeck, Mrs. Maude
						Thomas, Mrs. Bertha L.Woodworth, Mrs. Hannah
						Thomas, Mrs. CatherineWollen, Mrs. Annie S.
						Thomson, Mrs. Irene F.Wynn, Mrs. Cynthia C.
						Townsend, Mrs. Clyda A.Zinn, Mrs. Ella D.
						Traub, George F.Zinn, R. Ellsworth
					
					Total membership—259.
				

				
					

					NAOMI CHAPTER, NO. 131, ORDER OF EASTERN STAR.
					Naomi Chapter, No. 131, Order of Eastern Star, was organized under dispensation
						February 6th, 1893, and was granted a Charter April 26th, 1893.
					The Charter members of Naomi Chapter were Erhily I. Schley, Anna L. Hoagland, Elizabeth
						Leedy, Casandra Hoagland, John Schley, Henry A. Behrens, Christopher C. Ritter, Alfred
						M. Glossbrenner, Vernon H. Bronson, John Q. Hicks and William H. Leedy.
					Several members of Naomi Chapter have held high office in the Grand Chapter of the
						State of Indiana. Among them are Mrs. Lizzie J. Smythe, Past Grand Matron and Past Grand
						Secretary; Martin H. Rice, Past Grand Patron, and William H. Smythe, Past Grand
						Secretary.
					
						The present officers of Naomi Chapter are:
						MRS. OLIVE K. JEFFpIES, Worthy Matron.
						MR. WILL C. RICE, Worthy Patron.
						MRS. MATTIE RICE, Associate Matron.
						MIss ELLA WILLIAMS, Secretary.
						MRs. LIDA E. MYERS, Treasurer.
						MRS. ROSE L. JEFFRIES, Conductress.
						MRS. ANNA C. ARTERBURN, Associate Conductress.
						MIss LULU E. KING, Adah.
						MISS FANNIE F. MAGENNIS, Ruth.
						Mas. BERTHA KENNEDY, Esther.


						
						
							JOHN R. McCLINTOCK.
						
						
							CHRISTOPHER C. RITTER.
						
						
							WILLIAM H. SMYTHE.
						
						
							JOHN SCHLEY.
						
						
							WILL C. RICE.
						

						
							WORTHY PATRONS OF NAOMI CHAPTER In recent years. 
						

						
						

						MISS MAYME JACOBSEN, Martha.
						MRS. LAVINA WONDERS, Electra.
						MRS. FLORENCE E. HENRICKS, Warder.
						MRS. FANNIE McQUISTON, Sentinel.
						MRS. LUCILE BROWN, Chaplain.
						MRS. MARY E. RusIN, Marshal.
						MRS. LUCY E. CLIFTON, Organist.
					
					
						WORTHY MATRONS OF NAOMI CHAPTER FROM THE ORGANIZATION IN 1893
							TO 1902.

						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						

						
							1
							Emily I. Schley
							Feb. 6, 1893, to Dec., 1893
						
						
							1
							Anna L. Hoagland
							Dec., 1893, to Dec., 1894
						
						
							1
							Mattie Connelly
							Dec., 1894, to Dec., 1895
						
						
							1
							Ella Haller
							Dec., 1895, to Dec., 1896
						
						
							1
							Wilhelmena Brattain
							Dec., 1896, to Dec., 1897
						
						
							1
							Anna K. Stafford
							Dec., 1897, to Dec., 1898
						
						
							1
							Lida E. Myers
							Dec., 1898, to Dec., 1899
						
						
							1
							May N. McClintock
							Dec., 1899, to Dec., 1900
						
						
							1
							Frances M. Colip
							Dec., 1900, to Dec., 1901
						
						
							1
							Olive K. Jeffries
							Dec., 1901, to —, 1902
						
					

					
						WORTHY PATRONS OF NAOMI CHAPTER FROM THE ORGANIZATION IN 1893
							TO 1902.

						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						
						
							1
							Alfred M. Glossbrenner
							Feb. 6, 1893, to Dec., 1893
						
						
							1
							John R. McClintock
							Dec., 1893, to Dec., 1894
						
						
							1
							Christopher C. Ritter
							Dec., 1894, to Dec., 1895
						
						
							1
							S.William H. Smythe
							Dec., 1895, to Dec., 1896
						
						
							1
							Martin H. Rice
							Dec., 1896, to Dec., 1897
						
						
							1
							John Schley
							Dec., 1897, to Dec., 1900
						
						
							1
							S.John R. McClintock
							Dec., 1900, to Dec., 1901
						
						
							1
							Will C. Rice
							Dec., 1901, to — , 1902
						
					





					

					
						SECRETARIES OF NAOMI CHAPTER FROM THE ORGANIZATION IN 1893 TO
							1902. 
						
							Number of Consecutive Terms.
							Name.
							Time of Service.
						

						
							2
							R. Kate Daugherty
							Feb. 6, 1893, to Dec., 1894
						
						
							1
							Aurelius Smith
							Dec., 1894, to Dec., 1895
						
						
							1
							Vienna Purdy
							Dec., 1895, to Dec., 1896
						
						
							2
							Aurelius Smith
							Dec., 1896, to Dec., 1898
						
						
							4
							Ella Williams
							Dec., 1898, to — , 1902
						
					
					

						MEMBERS OF NAOMI CHAPTER JANUARY 1, 1902.

						Arterburn, Mrs. Anna C.Glossbrenner, Alfred M.
						Branson, Vernon H.Green, James A.
						Brattain, Mrs. WilhelmenaHaller, Mrs. Ella
						Brattain, Mrs. Amanda E.Haller, Herbert G.
						Brattain, Silas H.Hamilton, Mrs. Callie
						Brown, Mrs. LucileHarris, Hiram D.
						Byers, Mrs. EmmaHenricks, Mrs. Florence E.
						Carney, Mrs. Mattie A.Henricks, William A.
						Clifton, Mrs. Lucy E.Hicks, Mrs. Anna M.
						Cochrane, Mrs. LuluHicks, John Q.
						Cochrane, John P.Howell, Mrs. Luella
						Colip, Mrs. Frances M.Hudson, Mrs. Mary C.
						Colip, Erastus H.Irish, Mrs. Mary F.
						Connelly, Mrs. MattieJeffries, Mrs. Rose
						Darby, Mrs. Sarah C.Jeffries, Mrs. Olive K.
						Darby, WilliamJeffries, William E.
						DaShiel, Mrs. Kate H.Jacobsen, Miss Mayme
						DaShiel, Charles T.Jacobsen, Miss Kate
						Davis, Mrs. MyrtleJacobsen, Hans J.
						Daugherty, Mrs. R. KateJohnson, Mrs. Emma K.
						Densmore, Mrs. AdaJohnson, William H.
						Fulwell, Mrs. Matilda M.Johnson, Mrs. Mary
						Fulwell, GeorgeJones, Mrs. Olive E.
						George, Mrs. Emma C.Jones, Charles E.
						George, Otho G.Kennedy, Mrs. Bertha


						
						
							HON. ALFRED M. GLOSSBRENNER, First Worthy Patron of Naomi
								Chapter. Ex-Representative Indiana Legislature.
						


						
						

						King, Mrs. Sarah F.Prinzler, Miss Amelia
						King, Miss Lulu E.Reid, Thomas
						Koss, Mrs. CarolineRice, Mrs. Regina C.
						Koss, Miss Ida J. W.Rice, Martin H.
						Leedy, William H.Rice, Mrs. Mattie
						Magennis, Mrs. JaneRice, Will C.
						Magennis, Miss FannieRitter, Mrs. Jeannette
						Magennis, JamesRitter, Christopher C.
						Maginnis, John W.Rubin, Mrs. Mary E.
						McClintock, Mrs. JaneRumford, Frank L.
						McClintock, RobertRumford, Mrs. Lucy J.
						McClintock, Mrs. May N.Schley, Mrs. Emily I.
						McClintock, John R.Schley, Miss Georgealice
						McLane, Mrs. Malinda E.Schley, John
						Maze, Mrs. AdalineSilcox, Mrs. Sarah
						Maze, George W.Silcox, Schuyler C.
						McQuiston, Mrs. FannieSmythe, Mrs. Lizzie J.
						May, Mrs. MaySmythe, Miss Myrtle
						Moore, Mrs. Susan N. Smythe, William H.
						Moore, W. ScottSmythe, Elmer A.
						Moore, Mrs. ImogeneStafford, Mrs. Anna K.
						Myers, Mrs. Lida E.Stafford, Charles A.
						Myers, Mrs. CharlotteSteinhauer, Mrs. Lizzie
						Nelson, Mrs. JuliaSteinhauer, Michael
						Nelson, CharlesTedrowe, Mrs. Pearl
						Nutt, Miss Stella M.Tedrowe, Charles W.
						Osborne, Mrs. LauraThatcher, Mrs. Maria I.
						Parry, RogerWallace, Mrs. C. C.
						Peake, Mrs. HattieWallace, C. C.
						Peake, James T.Warner, Mrs. Kate A.
						Peacock, Mrs. Kate E.Warner, Charles T.
						Peacock, Samuel H.Weaver, George R.
						Perry, Mrs. MargaretWerts, Miss Blanche
						Perry, ClarkWerts, Mrs. Sadie E.
						Pope, George K.White, Mrs. Jeannette
						Pope, Mrs. Sarah F.Williams, Miss Ella
						Prather, Mrs. BelleWilson, James F.
						Prather, Calvin W.Wonders, Mrs. Lavina
					

					Total membership—126.

					
				
			
		





		
			
			
				APPENDIX

				



				
				
					MEMBERS OF THE ANCIENT ACCEPTED SCOTTISH RITE VALLEY OF
						INDIANAPOLIS, JANUARY 1, 1902.
					(Unless otherwise designated, members have attained 32º.)
					
						Abbett, Charles H., Indianapolis.
						Ackerman, Aug. C., Lafayette.
						Adair, Jos. W., Columbia City.
						Adam, Chas. H., Indianapolis.
						Adams, Bert B., Indianapolis.
						Adams, Curtis W., Bloomfield.
						Adams, Henry C., 330, Indianapolis.
						Adams, Henry C., Jr., St. Paul.
						Adams, Justus C., Indianapolis.
						Adams, Thad. S., Danville.
						Ader, Henry, Somerset.
						Adkins, John C., Marion.
						Aikins, Bronte M., Indianapolis.
						Aikman, Wm. M., Washington.
						Ainsworth, C. W., Plankinton, S. D.
						Ainsworth, Frank B., Indianapolis.
						Akass, Edw. T. A., Chicago, Ill.
						Albanus, George, Ft. Wayne.
						Alber, John, Logansport.
						Albright, Ernest C., Indianapolis.
						Albright, John H., Indianapolis.
						Alden, Samuel R., Ft. Wayne.
						Aldrich, James F., Indianapolis.
						Aldrich, Joshua H., Indianapolis.
						Alexander, Robert P., Indianapolis.
						Alexander, Wm. C., Lafayette.
						Aley, Robert J., Bloomington.
						Alford, Thomas G., Lafayette.
						Allen, David E., Birdseye, Ind.
						Allen, Frank M., Bloomington.

						Allen, F. M., Washington, Ohio.
						Allen, Granville G., Indianapolis.
						Allen, James K., Terre Haute.
						Allen, Oliver M., Indianapolis.
						Allen, Wes., West Newton.
						Allison, James A., Indianapolis.
						Allison, Robert B., Decatur.
						Almond, Enos A., Indianapolis.
						Alstadter, Albert, Huntington.
						Amsden, Chas. E., Shelbyville.
						Anderson, Eli W., Indianapolis.
						Anderson, Robert S., Princeton.
						Anderson, Thos., Allegheny, Pa.
						Anderson, W. D. K., C. Rapids, Ia.
						Andrews, James E., Peru.
						Andress, Edgar H., Lafayette.
						Aneshaensel, Chas., Indianapolis.
						Appel, D. Fred, Boston, Mass.
						Appel, John J., Indianapolis.
						Arms, R. M., Spokane, Wash.
						Armstrong, Edwin J., Indianapolis.
						Armstrong, James W., Indianapolis.
						Armstrong, Robt. M., Indianapolis.
						Armstrong, Seigle M., Indianapolis.
						Arnold, Daniel, Montpelier.
						Arthur, James A., Goshen.
						Ashley, George T., Indianapolis.
						Ashton, George B., Sunmans.
						Atwell, W. J., W. Superior, Wis.
						Atwood, Jas. G. B., Albion.




						

						Auch, Andrew, Fitzgerald, Ga.
						Austermiller, Samuel, Terre Haute.
						Austin, Chas. S., Indianapolis.
						Austin, Wm. W., New Castle.
						Backman, John J., Aurora.
						Bacon, Chas. P., Evansville.
						Bacon, Duncan T., Indianapolis.
						Baerd, Henry, Huntingburg.
						Bailey, A., Crawfordsville.
						Bailey, George T., Muncie.
						Baker, Alva M., Lebanon.
						Baker, Frank H., Indianapolis.
						Baker, H. W., Campbellsburg.
						Baker, Jeremiah, Garrett.
						Baker, John J., Indianapolis.
						Baker, Joseph S., Warsaw.
						Balch, Chas., Terre Haute.
						Baldwin, L. S., Noblesville.
						Ball, Albert J., Indianapolis.
						Ball, Edmund B., Muncie.
						Ball, Ephraim W., Rushville.
						Ball, Frank C., Muncie.
						Ball, William C., Muncie.
						Ballard, G. M., 14º, Indianapolis.
						Ballman, Jno. H., Indianapolis.
						Bals, John F., Indianapolis.
						Balz, Frederick G., Indianapolis.
						Bannister, Oscar B., Muncie.
						Bannister, S. N., L. Angeles, Cal.
						Bardsley, James, Corbin, Ky.
						Barley, Charles J., Delphi.
						Barnard, Jacob M., Marion.
						Barnes, John P., Anderson.
						Barnett, Abraham G., Ft. Wayne.
						Barnett, B. H., Fort Wayne.
						Barnett, Charles L., Indianapolis.
						Barnett, Jas. W., Ft. Wayne.
						Barnitt, James L., Indianapolis.
						Barrett, James M., Ft. Wayne.
						Barrett, Ray W., Chihuahua, Mex.
						Barrows, Edward W., Indianapolis.
						Barrows, Wm. F., Indianapolis.
						Barry, Wm. B., Indianapolis.

						Bash, John M., Warsaw.
						Bass, John H., 33º, Ft. Wayne.
						Bassett, Edward W., Indianapolis.
						Bassett, Walter B., Indianapolis.
						Bates, Hervey, Jr., Indianapolis.
						Batson, John A., Reynolds.
						Bauchert, Mahlon F., Noblesville.
						Bauer, Harry C., Indianapolis.
						Bauer, Jacob M., Lawrenceburg.
						Bauer, John J., Ft. Wayne.
						Bauer, Thomas, Muncie.
						Baur, Chas., South Bend.
						Bay, David, North Vernon.
						Bayless, Samuel O., Cincinnati, O.
						Beacham, Jas. H., Indianapolis.
						Beal, Jas. A., Logansport.
						Beatty, James M., Dunkirk.
						Beauchamp, W. T., Terre Haute.
						Bechtel, Jno. A., Kokomo.
						Beck, Eman L., Franklin.
						Beck, James W., Danville.
						Becker, Charles, Indianapolis.
						Becker, Jacob, Jr., Indianapolis.
						Beckley, Albert, Butler.
						Beers, George W., Ft. Wayne.
						Beissenherz, Henry D., Indianapolis.
						Belcher, Thos. W. S., Indianapolis.
						Bell, Alfred, Vincennes.
						Bell, Benj. F., Bellevue, O.
						Bell, John E., Cannelton.
						Bell, Jos. E., Indianapolis.
						Bell, Louis A., Knightstown.
						Bell, William A., Goshen.
						Bellinger, Frank P., Lafayette.
						Belott, Geo. E., Ft. Wayne.
						Bender, Conrad, Indianapolis.
						Benedict, John L., 14º, Indianapolis.
						Benepe, John L., Indianapolis.
						Bennett, Beecher W., Muncie.
						Bennett, M. S., Jeffersonville.
						Bennett, Theo., Indianapolis.
						Bennette, N. B., Louisville, Ky.
						Benson, Samuel T., Kokomo.

						

						Benson, Wm. W., Indianapolis.
						Benton, Geo. W., 14º, Indianapolis.
						Bergen, Jas. S., Lafayette.
						Bernloehr, Christopher, Indianapolis.
						Bertermann, Wm. G., Indianapolis.
						Beshore, Hiram A., Marion.
						Beyerle, Lincoln H., Goshen.
						Billings, Geo. M., Irvington.
						Billingsley, Denton F., Indianapolis.
						Bir, Edward M., New Albany.
						Birk, Harry A., Indianapolis.
						Birk, Martin J., Jr., Indianapolis.
						Birk, William M., Indianapolis.
						Bitner, Edw. E., Terre Haute.
						Bishop, George A., Auburn.
						Blacklidge, H. J., Anderson.
						Blacklidge, J, M., 14º, Anderson.
						Blair, Charles A., Richmond.
						Blair, Jesse H., Denver, Colo.
						Blake, Geo. E., Greencastle.
						Bland, John A., Edinburg.
						Blick, Robert E., Peru.
						Blinks, Wm., Michigan City.
						Bliss, Geo. W., Indianapolis.
						Blitz, Max J., Ft. Wayne.
						Bloss, John M., Muncie.
						Blue, Van Calvin, Flora.
						Bodine, James E., Indianapolis.
						Bogue, Oliver H., Wabash.
						Bohmie, John M., Indianapolis.
						Bohlen, Oscar D., Indianapolis.
						Boice, A. C., Los Angeles, Cal.
						Boilvin, N. B., New Albany.
						Bolen, Geo. W., Kan. City, Mo.
						Boldt, Chas. F. W., Muncie.
						Boltz, Ferd. F., 33º, Bluffton.
						Bond, Chas. E., Ft. Wayne.
						Booz, Edwin G., Indianapolis.
						Booz, Jno. J., Indianapolis.
						Borgerding, Geo., New Albany.
						Borgstrom, Frank T., Terre Haute.
						Borough, John, Mishawaka.
						Borum, John F., Odel.

						Boughton, H. C., Ashland, Ky.
						Bowen, Chas. E., Franklin.
						Bowen, Edward W., Delphi.
						Bowers, Frank, Indianapolis.
						Bowman, Wm. H., Edinburg.
						Bowser, Augustus, Ft. Wayne.
						Boyd, Bert A., Indianapolis.
						Boyd, Frank P., Alexandria.
						Boyd, John L., Denver, Colo.
						Boyers, James S., Decatur.
						Bracken, James S., Dunkirk.
						Bradley, Nelson, Greenfield.
						Bradshaw, John, Denver, Colo.
						Bradshaw, Thos. E., Thorntown.
						Braffett, Thad. W. O., Richmond.
						Brafford, James M., Frankfort.
						Bragg, Walter O., Greenfield.
						Braitmayer, H., Flint, Mich.
						Branch, Emmett F., Martinsv.
						Brandt, Jno. B., St. Louis, Mo.
						Brant, Chas. P., Indianapolis.
						Brant, Selwyn A., Madison, Wis.
						Braxton, Arthur J., Stinesville.
						Breed, Richard E., Marion.
						Breeding, John M., Edinburg.
						Brevoort, Chas. P., Marion.
						Brewer, Harvey, Greenwood.
						Brick, Abraham L., South Bend.
						Brickley, Eugene T., Anderson.
						Briggs, Herman W., Attica.
						Briggs, Leonard S., Terre Haute.
						Brigham, A. C., Boston, Mass.
						Bright, Oakley, Boswell.
						Bringle, Elvet L., Campbellsburg.
						Briscoe, Samuel M., Hartford City.
						Bristol, Charles W., Indianapolis.
						Brittlebank, J., Charleston, S. C.
						Britton, Robert M., Brazil.
						Broas, James B., Geneva.
						Bronson, John L., Lafayette.
						Browder, Cornelius D., Indianapolis.
						Browder, Wilbur F., Indianapolis.
						Brown, Arthur V., Indianapolis.

						

						Brown, Austin H., 33º, Indianapolis.
						Brown, Benj. A., Brightwood.
						Brown, Bester G., Chicago, Ill.
						Brown, Chalmers, 33º, Indianapolis.
						Brown, Charles A., Indianapolis.
						Brown, Edw. F., Ogden, Utah.
						Brown, Fred W., Clayton.
						Brown, Hiram, Indianapolis.
						Brown, Ignatius, Indianapolis.
						Brown, Isaac H., Covington, Ky.
						Brown, Jas. C., Campbellsburg.
						Brown, John G., Lafayette.
						Brown, John G., Lafayette.
						Brown, John W., West Lebanon.
						Brown, Marcus L., Indianapolis.
						Brown, Robert A., Indianapolis.
						Brown, Vallorous, Churubusco.
						Brown, Wm. E., Pendleton.
						Brown, Wm. L., Washington.
						Brown, Wm. H., Buffalo, N. Y.
						Brown, Wm. T., Indianapolis.
						Brownback, O. W., Pendleton.
						Browne, LeRoy E., Richmond.
						Brownlee, Hiram, Marion.
						Brookshire, Swan, Indianapolis.
						Bruce, Wm. C., Cleveland, O.
						Brush, George E., Indianapolis.
						Brush, John T., 33º, Indianapolis.
						Bryant, Frank L., Indianapolis.
						Buchanan, Wallace, Indianapolis.
						Buck, Benjamin F., Indianapolis.
						Buck, Harry M., Waukesha, Wis.
						Buckner, James P., Covington.
						Bulman, Austin, Terre Haute.
						Bulson, Albert E., Ft. Wayne.
						Buntell, Chas. J., Martinsville.
						Burdsal, Alfred, Indianapolis.
						Burford, Ernest H.,Indianapolis.
						Burford, Wm. B., Indianapolis.
						Burger, Chas. B., Indianapolis.
						Burk, Wm. C., Thorntown.
						Burk, Wm. E., Logansport.
						Burke, John, Princeton.

						Burke, Wm. H., Indianapolis.
						Burkholder, Jno. T., Pittsburg.
						Burkland, Cyrus H., Frankfort.
						Burnison, Danuel C., Fostoria, O.
						Burns, David M., Lebanon.
						Burns, Millen, Decatur.
						Burnside, Thomas C., Liberty.
						Burrell, Hugh A., Brownstown.
						Burt, Thos. W., Lafayette.
						Busch, Carl A., Terre Haute.
						Buschmann, A. W., 14º, Indianapolis.
						Buschmann, Chas. L., Indianapolis.
						Buschmann, Geo. H., Indianapolis.
						Buschmann, Harry C., Indianapolis.
						Buschmann, W. F., 14º, Indianapolis.
						Bush, Calvin W., Indianapolis.
						Bush, Walter C., Michigan City.
						Buskirk, L. V., Bloomington.
						Busteed, Geo. J., Delphi.
						Butler, Mahlon D., 33º, Indianapolis.
						Butler, J. L., 33º, Cookeville, Tn.
						Butterworth, F. W., Danville, Ill.
						Button, Canada, Zionsville.
						Bye, Benjamin F., Indianapolis.
						Byers, Frank R., Terre Haute.
						Byers, John C., Butte, Mont.
						Bynum, Wm. D., Indianapolis.
						Byram, Norman S., Indianapolis.
						Byrn, Norman, New Albany.
						Cadawallader, A. R.,Ciudad, Mex.
						Caldwell, Arthur B., Indianapolis.
						Caldwell, Charles C., Indianapolis.
						Caldwell, Geo. W., Columbus.
						Calloway, Henry C., Elwood.
						Cameron, Joseph B., Indianapolis.
						Cammack, David, 33º, Muncie.
						Campbell, Alex. D., Mich. City.
						Campbell, Chas. E., Clarks Hill.
						Campbell, Eddy M., Indianapolis.
						Campbell, Howard, Richmond.
						Campbell, Robt. A., St. Louis, Mo.
						Campbell, Wm. C., Geneva.

						

						Canfield, Albert, Muncie.
						Canine, Hal B., Indianapolis.
						Canis, Edward N., Indianapolis.
						Carey, Samuel C., Indianapolis.
						Carnahan, Jas. R., Indianapolis.
						Carnahan, Jno. J., Bushton, Ill.
						Carroll, Robert S., Chicago, Ill.
						Carson, John F., Indianapolis.
						Carter, Anson B., Indianapolis.
						Carter, Benjamin F., Peru.
						Carter, David B., Frankfort.
						Carter, Frank H., Indianapolis.
						Carter, George H., Indianapolis.
						Carter, Manly H., Frankfort.
						Caruth, Davis E., Auburn.
						Cartwright, George O., Delphi.
						Cary, Frank M., Lafayette.
						Cary, Wm. H., Indianapolis.
						Case, Clinton M., Kendallville.
						Case, Robinson M., Indianapolis.
						Castor, Marshall F., Richmond.
						Cates, Edwin H., Richmond.
						Cavanagh, Joseph R., Indianapolis.
						Caylor, George H., Noblesville.
						Caylor, Rayton G., Noblesville.
						Caven, John, 33º, Indianapolis.
						Cecil, Charles W., Muncie.
						Chambers, Chas. E., Princeton.
						Chambers, Perle L., New York.
						Chambers, Smiley N., Indianapolis.
						Chandlee, Webster, Richmond.
						Chandler, Geo. M., Batavia, Ill.
						Chandler, Oren J., Warsaw.
						Chapin, Henry D., Richmond.
						Chapler, Martin L., Wabash.
						Chapman, Edward K., Indianapolis.
						Chapman, Ira A., Waldron.
						Chapman, James P., Rome City.
						Chappell, DeWitt Q., Evansville.
						Charlton, Fred R., Indianapolis.
						Charni, J. L., Crawfordsville. 
						Charnley, Wm. H., Goshen.

						Chase, A. S., 33º, Ellsworth, Kas.
						Chilson, Grant E., Ft. Wayne.
						Christian, H. E., Junction City, Ky
						Christian, Thomas J., Indianapolis.
						Christian, Wilmer, Indianapolis.
						Church, Edward J., LaPorte.
						Cisney, James H., Warsaw.
						Clancy, Leslie D., Indianapolis.
						Clapp, William F., Albion.
						Clapp, William H., Indianapolis.
						Clark, Alfred, St. Louis, Mo.
						Clark, Chauncey H., Indianapolis.
						Clark, Cyrus J., Indianapolis.
						Clark, Edmund D., Indianapolis.
						Clark, Edward G., Muncie.
						Clark, Edward J., Indianapolis.
						Clark, Ernest A., Lowell.
						Clark, Jacob W., Ft. Wayne.
						Clark, Jonathan M., Indianapolis.
						Clark, William D., Colfax.
						Cleary, John W., Indianapolis.
						Cleaver, Frank C., Princeton.
						Clements, Jas. M., Paducah, Ky.
						Clements, Robt. W., Paducah, Ky.
						Cleveland, Charles S., Plymouth.
						Cleveland, John M., Indianapolis.
						Clifford, Wm. L., Indianapolis.
						Cline, Lewis C., Indianapolis.
						Clinton, John E., 14º, Indianapolis.
						Clinton, Jno. R., Indianapolis.
						Cloud, Joel E., Indianapolis.
						Clugston, Asher R., Colum. City.
						Clugston, David B., Colum. City.
						Clugston, P. H., Columbia City.
						Clugston, Wm. A., Columbia City.
						Clyne, Valentine D., Monticello.
						Coate, Mordecai, W., Marion.
						Coats, Wm. F., Columbus.
						Cobb, Arthur W., Indianapolis.
						Cockburn, Jas. T., Logansport.
						Cochran, William M., Indianapolis.
						Cockie, John, Lafayette.

						
						Cockrum, John B., Indianapolis.
						Coddington, Benj. F., Union City.
						Coffey, Silas D., Brazil.
						Coffin, Alfred S., Indianapolis.
						Coffin, John R., Terre Haute.
						Coffin, Robert M., Indianapolis.
						Colborn, Abram R., Mich. City.
						Colborn, Amos S., Oxford.
						Colborn, Jno. A., Oxford.
						Coldwell, Horace G., Indianapolis.
						Cole, Albert B., Indianapolis.
						Cole, Cyril B., 33º, Seymour.
						Cole, Cyrus W., Michigan City.
						Cole, Nelson V., Michigan City.
						Collins, John E., New York.
						Collyer, Frank A., Washington.
						Colvert, William, Attica.
						Combs, George W., Indianapolis.
						Commons, J. A., Centerville.
						Compton, Samuel M., Indianapolis.
						Conde, Henry T., Indianapolis.
						Condon, John B., Lafayette.
						Conduitt, Allen W., Indianapolis.
						Conklin, Frank G., South Bend.
						Conklin, Samuel, Cincinnati, O.
						Conlee, Thos. A., Indianapolis.
						Conlen, John A., Indianapolis.
						Conn, Walter, Columbus.
						Conner, Shelby W., Chicago, Ill.
						Conradt, George W., Attica.
						Conrey, Jacob A., Shelbyville.
						Cook, Albert, Michigan City.
						Cook, Ernest W., Fort Wayne.
						Cook, N. E., Wellington, Kan.
						Cook, Thomas V., Indianapolis.
						Cooley, Samuel M., Indianapolis.
						Coon, Hiram J., Colfax.
						Coons, Henry N., Lebanon.
						Coons, Joseph A., Lebanon.
						Coons, William I., 18º, Irvington.
						Cooper, Danuel B., Helena, Mont.
						Cooper, Eugene A., Indianapolis.
						Cooper, George H., Greenfield.

						Cooper, Lew W., Indianapolis.
						Coover, Harry C., Fort Wayne.
						Copeland, Lewis W., Lebanon.
						Copp, Franklin B., Huntingburg.
						Coppenhaver, Henry L., Garrett.
						Cording, Richard N., Wingate.
						Corpew, Jos. S., 14º, St. Louis.
						Cotter, B. E., Providence, R. I.
						Coulter, James P., 33º, Aurora.
						Courtier, George S., Wabash.
						Cowan, Roos H., Muncie.
						Cowgill, Cary E., Wabash.
						Cox, Edgar, Kokomo.
						Cox, Edw. E., Hartford City.
						Cox, John S., Edinburg.
						Cox, John W., Olio.
						Cragun, Strange N., Lebanon.
						Craig, Henry J., Indianapolis.
						Craig, James C., Ft. Wayne.
						Craig, William B., Indianapolis.
						Craig, William R., Indianapolis.
						Crane, Stephen D., White Hall.
						Cravens, Joseph M., Madison.
						Crawford, Alex. I:, Terre Haute.
						Crawford, Edward M., Indianapolis.
						Crecelius, Chas. E., New Albany.
						Creel, Thomas J., Angola.
						Cressler, Alfred D., Ft. Wayne.
						Crimmins, John C., Indianapolis.
						Crockett, Elmer, South Bend.
						Crockett, Ren. W., Delphi.
						Crosley, Charles S., Indianapolis.
						Cross, Charles M., Indianapolis.
						Cross, Jos. F., N. Watcom, Wash.
						Crouse, Henry M., Knightstown.
						Crouse, Jerome H., Dayton.
						Crow, Jas. M., Los Angeles, Cal.
						Cruft, J. W., 33º, Terre Haute.
						Crumpton, Jno. H., Danville, Ill.
						Cruse, James S., Indianapolis.
						Cruson, Chas. W., Scottsburg.
						Cubberly, Louis B., Marion.
						Culbert, Uriah, Michigan City.


						

						Cullaton, Martin, Richmond.
						Cullen, Robert P., New Albany.
						Culver, Harry B., Indianapolis.
						Culver, Reuben D., Veedersburg.
						Cumback, Will, Jr., Greensburg.
						Cummings, A. G., Terre Haute.
						Cunningham, W. R., Frankfort.
						Cunnington, Richard, Muncie.
						Curryer, Wm. F., Indianapolis.
						Curtice, Chas. C., St. Louis, Mo.
						Curtis, Cassius C., Noblesville.
						Curtis, John J., Indianapolis.
						Curtis, Joshua W., Warsaw.
						Cutter, Alfred H., Covington,Ky.
						Curtner, John M., Wabash.
						Cutsinger, Frank M., Edinburg.
						Daggett, Robert P., Indianapolis.
						Daily, Americus C., Lebanon.
						Dailey, Oscar H., Kokomo.
						Dakin, George M., LaPorte.
						Daller, Albert, Indianapolis.
						Daller, Edward C., Foster.
						Dalman, John, Ft. Wayne.
						Dalton, Nathan F., Indianapolis.
						Daly, Charles F., Indianapolis.
						Dalzell, Wm. T., Denver, Colo.
						Danes, William S., Peru.
						Daniel, Lewis B., Lawrenceburg.
						Daniels, Henry W., Terre Haute.
						Darby, Orange V., Kokomo.
						Darnell, William O., Lebanon.
						Darrach, Chas. S., Chicago, Ill.
						Darrow, Geo. G., Ft. Wayne.
						Daugherty, Charles, Indianapolis.
						Davenport, Frank B., Indianapolis.
						Davenport, Frank E., Auburn.
						Davenport, Louis C., Bluffton.
						Davis, Albert E., Indianapolis.
						Davis, Charles L., Sullivan.
						Davis, Daniel H., Knightsville.
						Davis, Frank M., Scottsburg.
						Davis, Gilb. W., 33º, Fargo, N. D.
						Davis, Isaac E., Indianapolis.

						Davis, John L., Crawfordsville.
						Davis, Newton C., Indianapolis.
						Davis, Richard C., Washington.
						Davis, Theo. P., Noblesville.
						Davis, Wm. C., Indianapolis.
						Davis, Wm. E., 18º, Indianapolis.
						Day, Charles, New Albany.
						Deeley, R. M., Winton Place, O.
						Defrees, Thomas M., Indianapolis.
						DeHority, Charles C., Elwood.
						DeHority, David C., Elwood.
						DeHority, Frank E., Elwood.
						Deming, Samuel G., Mich. City.
						Deutsch, Albert, Oakland City.
						DeVay, William P., Indianapolis.
						Denison, George H., Columbus.
						Dennert, Louis A., Elkhart.
						Dennis, Frank, Dunkirk.
						Denny, Harry W., Indianapolis.
						Denny, Hezekiah, Portland.
						DePuy, Frank, Wabash.
						DePuy, Romeo L., Wabash.
						Derby, DeWitt W., Indianapolis.
						Detzer, Gustave G., Ft. Wayne.
						DeWolf, Edgar H., Vincennes.
						Dick, Jacob E., Attica.
						Dickes, John T., Portland.
						Dickson, Barton F., Evansville.
						Dickson, Fred C., Indianapolis.
						Dickson, George A., Indianapolis.
						Dickson, John T., Indianapolis.
						Dietz, Emil, Indianapolis.
						Dilks, John H., 18º, Indianapolis.
						Dissette, Chas. K., Glenville, O.
						Dissette, James I., Indianapolis.
						Dithmer, Henry L., Indianapolis.
						Dittemore, John V., Indianapolis.
						Dixon, Aug. R., Mattoon, Ill.
						Donaldson, Geo. W., Vincennes.
						Donaldson, Wm. H., Indianapolis.
						Donivan, John W., Ft. Wayne.
						Doud, Wallace E., Fort Wayne.
						Dougall, John T., Ft. Wayne.

						

						Dougan, John B., Richmond.
						Doughman, Newton D., Ft.Wayne
						Douglass, Joseph H., Elkhart.
						Douglas, Robert F., Ft. Wayne.
						Douglas, Sidney W., 33º, Evansv.
						Douglass, Samuel L., Indianapolis.
						Downey, Brandt C., Indianapolis.
						Downing, Charles, Greenfield.
						Downing, Harry C., Richmond.
						Doyal, David D., White Lick.
						Drake, Lester, Columbus.
						Drew, Lucius W., Indianapolis.
						Druly, Nicholas, Boston, Indiana.
						Dryer, Chas. A., 14º, Indianapolis.
						Dryer, James W., Indianapolis.
						Dugan, Charles A., Decatur.
						Dunbar, Jas. W., New Albany.
						Duncan, Frank B., Princeton.
						Duncan, Harry A., Franklin.
						Duncan, Thomas, Muncie.
						Dunkle, Frank, Linden.
						Durbin, William N., Anderson.
						Durbin, W. T., 33º, Anderson.
						Durfee, George A., Ft. Wayne.
						Durham, Geo. T., Crawfordsv.
						Dutton, Robert L., Indianapolis.
						Dwyer, John W., Hammond.
						Dynes, Walton L., Indianapolis.
						Early, Jacob D., Terre Haute.
						Eastburn, David J., Indianapolis.
						Eastman, Joseph, Indianapolis.
						Eastman, Jos. R., 14º, Indianapolis.
						Eastman, Thos. B., Indianapolis.
						Eastes, Jesse E., Chicago, Ill.
						Ebert, John, Indianapolis.
						Eckert, David S., Fort Wayne.
						Edington, Samuel C., Montpelier.
						Egbert, Haines, Goshen.
						Egbert, John W., Goshen.
						Eichelberger, W. C., Terre Haute
						Ela, William C., Indianapolis.
						Elder, John M., Chicago, Ohio.
						Elkins, John A., Indianapolis.

						Elliott, Byron K., 33º, Indianapolis.
						Elliott, Cassius E., Sheridan.
						Elliott, Ernest M., Indianapolis.
						Elliott, N. K., 33º, Columbus, Ohio.
						Elliott, Robert, Indianapolis.
						Elliott, Wm. F., Indianapolis.
						Ellis, Wm. L., Quincy, Ill.
						Ells, John C., Dayton, Ohio.
						Emerson, Harv. W., Lafayette.
						Emerson, S. A., Englewood, Ill.
						Emery, Alfred W., Evansville.
						Emery, Wm. E., Vallicita, Cal.
						Emisonn, Millard J., Vincennes.
						Emrich, E. E., Pittsburg, Kan.
						Engle, Willis D., Indianapolis.
						English, William E., Indianapolis.
						Ennes, Wm. S., Princeton.
						Enoch, D. S., Crawfordsville.
						Enslen, William, Ft. Wayne.
						Eppinghausen, Chas., Oakalla.
						Epps, Harry G., Indianapolis.
						Erdman, Charles V., Anderson.
						Erwin, Daniel P., 14º, Indianapolis.
						Evans, George P., Ft. Wayne.
						Evans, Richard J., Ft. Wayne.
						Everett, Charles E., Ft. Wayne.
						Ewan, Albert O., Indianapolis.
						Ewing, Geo. W., Baltimore, Md.
						Fahnestock, Aug. A., LaPorte.
						Fahnestock, Chas. S., LaPorte.
						Fairfield, Wm. J., 14º, Anderson.
						Farley, Thomas Indianapolis.
						Farmerr, Edwin G., Indianapolis.
						Farrell, John S., Indianapolis.
						Farrington, G.E., 33º, Terre Haute.
						Fatout, Ansel, Indianapolis.
						Fatout, Daniel H., Indianapolis.
						Fatout, Harvey B., Indianapolis.
						Faul, Henry, Evansville.
						Faulkner, Robt. R., Dunkirk.
						Faulknor, Jno. B., Mich. City.
						Fauve, Adrian E., Indianapolis.
						Felker, Adam H., Lebanon.

						

						Felker, Frank F., Logansport.
						Fetta, Christian, Richmond.
						Fickinger, Wm. J., Indianapolis.
						Fidler, Wm. H., New Waverly.
						Fielde, Wm. S., Chicago, Ill.
						Finch, Clifford P., Rockford, Ill
						Finch, Wm. L., Anderson.
						Finch, Henry, Milwaukee, Wis.
						Finfrock, Harvey C., Attica.
						Finfrock, Wm. W., Attica.
						Fish, James L., Indianapolis.
						Fish, William S., Indianapolis.
						Fisher, Bem. E., Chicago, Ill.
						Fisher, Clifford C., Union City.
						Fisher, F. M., Battle Creek, Mich.
						Fisher, George C., Indianapolis.
						Fisher, Homer, Orleans.
						Fisher, John J., Rossville.
						Fisk, Malvin W., Lawrenceburg.
						Fister, George H., Elkhart.
						Fitch, Alexander P., Lebanon.
						Fitch, Charles B., Ft. Wayne.
						Fitzgerald, Frank N., Indianapolis.
						Flanagan, Geo. W., Logansport.
						Flanner, Frank W., Indianapolis.
						Fleming, Peter W., Williamsport
						Fleshman, D. W., Raton, N. M.
						Fletcher, Charles B., Indianapolis.
						Fletcher, Jesse, Indianapolis.
						Fletcher, Samuel H., Indianapolis.
						Fletcher, Wm. T., Indianapolis.
						Flynn, David H., Lafayette.
						Flynn, William, Marion.
						Folger, John W., Indianapolis.
						Fontaine, Thomas P., Indianapolis.
						Foor, William, Indianapolis.
						Foote, Lucien A., Crawfordsville.
						Forbis, Milton H., Hartford City.
						Ford, Charles A., Kokomo.
						Ford, Charles E., Omaha, Neb.
						Ford, George T., Ft. Branch.
						Forelander, A. D., Noblesville.
						Forgy, Dickinson J., N. Waverly.

						Forrest, John H., Marion.
						Fosdick, Horace G., Liberty.
						Fosdick, Lloyd E., Liberty.
						Foster, David W., Lebanon.
						Foster, Robert S., Indianapolis.
						l.Foulke, Wm. Dudley, Richmond.
						Foulks, Hiram J., Vincennes.
						Fowler, Harry, Soldiers' Home.
						Fowler, Lewis W., Wabash.
						Fowler, Will, Wabash.
						Fowler Wm. F., Shelbyville.
						Fox, John W., Muncie.
						France, Abraham B., So. Bend.
						Francis, J. Richard, Indianapolis.
						Frank, Frederick W., Indianapolis.
						Frank, Robert H., Marion.
						Franklin, Carl P., Muncie.
						Franklin, Cary, Muncie.
						Frederick, Wm. J., Garrett.
						Frederickson, Wm., LaPorte.
						Free, Orzin, Rigdon.
						Free, Sylvanus, Alexandria.
						Freeman, Job, Linton.
						Frey, Wm. F., 14º, Lafayette.
						Fritch, Jonas D., Frankfort.
						Froeb, Emil, Terre Haute.
						Fry, William W., Elsdon, Ill.
						Fuhrmann, Wm. A., Indianapolis.
						Fulk, Albert A., South Bend.
						Fuller, Joseph A., Hancock, Mich.
						Fuller, Wm. W., Chicago, Ill.
						Fulmer, Edward P., Indianapolis.
						Fulwell, George, Indianapolis.
						Furgason, C. C., Richmond, Va.
						Furgason, Charles H., Indianapolis.
						Gaar, Samuel W., Richmond.
						Gable, Harry A., Marion.
						Gagg, George A., Terre Haute.
						Galbraith, H. H., 14º, Indianapolis.
						Gale, George A., Ft. Wayne.
						Gale, George W., Marion.
						Gall, Albert, Indianapolis.
						Gall, Charles A., Indianapolis.


						

						Gall, Edmund F., Indianapolis.
						Gall, Paul C., 14º, Gosport.
						Ganter, Leo S., Muncie.
						Garahty, Jos. H., Chicago, Ill.
						Garber, Wm. S., 14º, Indianapolis.
						Gard, Jas. F., Cherryvale, Kan.
						Gard, Obed C., Young America.
						Gard, Oliver, Frankfort.
						Gardner, Demotte C., Ft. Wayne.
						Gardner, Fred C., Indianapolis.
						Garey, Dumont, New Albany.
						Garrison, Kenton, Converse.
						Garrison, William C., Indianapolis.
						Garwood, Don A., Auburn.
						Gaskill, Newton J., Frankfort.
						Gates, Alfred B., Indianapolis.
						Gates, Arthur D., Indianapolis.
						Gates, Franklin L., Indianapolis.
						Gates, Fred E., Indianapolis.
						Gates, Harrie H., Indianapolis.
						Gates, William F., Montpelier.
						Gausepohl, Edward J., Indianapolis.
						Gavin, Frank E., Indianapolis.
						Gay, George A., Indianapolis.
						Geake, William, 33º, Ft. Wayne.
						Geiger, Robert W., Atlanta, Ga.
						Gentry, W. W., Bloomington.
						George, Otho G., Indianapolis.
						Gephart, William, New Castle.
						Gerard, Wesley M., Indianapolis.
						Gessner, Dorr L., Indianapolis.
						Getty, John F., Logansport.
						Gibson, Hugh B., Rising Sun.
						Giebel, Ferd. L., Terre Haute.
						Gilbert, Newton W., Angola.
						Gilbert, William H., Evansville.
						Gilchrist, Hector M., Indianapolis.
						Gillett, S. P., 33º, Evansville.
						Gillie, James, Ft. Wayne.
						Gilliland, Elmer E., Indianapolis.
						Gilliland, John S., Dunkirk.
						Gilmore, Charles C., Indianapolis.
						Gisley, Gottlieb, 18º, Indianapolis.
						Glanton, James A., Columbus.

						Glass, Frederick, Madison.
						Glendening, William, Geneva.
						Glenn, John S., Huntington.
						Glenn, William M., Ft. Wayne.
						Glossbrenner, Alfred M., Indianapolis.
						Godfrey, George L., Ft. Wayne.
						Goehler, Daniel, Anderson.
						Goetz, Philip, Indianapolis.
						Goheen, Frank H., Indianapolis.
						Gohl, Edward W., Logansport.
						Golden, Edward J., Indianapolis.
						Goldsmith, C. H., Terre Haute.
						Goldsmith, Fred C., Terre Haute.
						Goodall, Joseph B., Peru.
						Goodall, Walter J., Indianapolis.
						Goodbar, Chas. L., Ladoga.
						Goodloe, Thornton M., Indianapolis.
						Goodnow, Edgar B., Logansport.
						Goodrich, Edw. S., Winchester.
						Goodrich, J. P., 14º, Winchester.
						Goodwin, Thomas A., Warsaw.
						Goodwine, F., Williamsport.
						Goodwine, Wm., H., W. Lebanon.
						Gordon, Robert, Indianapolis.
						Gordon, Thad. H., Indianapolis.
						Gordon, Wm. H., Indianapolis.
						Gorter, Peter, Evansville.
						Goth, Herman A., Indianapolis.
						Gougar, John D., Lafayette.
						Gould, Emmet A., Peru.
						Grace, Edward H., Logansport.
						Grace, Joseph G., Painesville, Ohio.
						Graf, Adam, Logansport.
						Graham, Alois B., Indianapolis.
						Graham, Geo. W., Crawfordsville.
						Graham, Harry J., Chicago, Ill.
						Graham, John F., Marion.
						Granus, Edwin W., Indianapolis.
						Graul, Jno. F., Terre Haute.
						Graves, Edward M., Indianapolis.
						Graves, Geo. H., Indianapolis.
						Graves, James O., Jamestown.

						
						Graves, Richard E., Evansville.
						Gray, John H., Indianapolis.
						Green, George R., Muncie.
						Greene, Franklin C., N. Albany.
						Greenawalt, Geo. L., Ft. Wayne.
						Greenlee, Cassius M., Elwood.
						Greenstreet, Chas. J., 14º, Indianapolis.
						Greenwood, David, Indianapolis.
						Greenwood, H. E., 14º, Indianapolis.
						Gregg, C. M., Crawfordsville.
						Gregory, Augustus C., Decatur.
						Gregory, Fred A., Indianapolis.
						Griffin, Cassius C., Hammond.
						Griffin, Chas. F., 33º, Hammond.
						Griffin, Frank P., Bourbon.
						Griffith, Levi, Ft. Wayne.
						Griffith, St. Clair, Indianapolis.
						Griffith, Wm. G., Indianapolis.
						Grimes, George E., Ladoga.
						Grimes, Robert P., Anderson.
						Griner, Daniel E., Portland.
						Griner, Louis A., Indianapolis.
						Gross, George W., Manilla.
						Grout, William H., Ft. Wayne.
						Gruber, Joseph L., Ft. Wayne.
						Gunder, George W., Marion.
						Gunn, Edward B., Lafayette.
						Gunther, Charles W., Indianapolis.
						Guthrie, Wm. A., Dupont.
						Guynn, Lincoln, Wabash.
						Guyton, Jesse D., Indianapolis.
						Habich, Gustave, Indianapolis.
						Hacker, Thomas S., Indianapolis.
						Haffner, James E., Joplin, Mo.
						Hagen, Andrew, Indianapolis.
						Hagerty, Jos. L., Topeka, Kan.
						Hahn, Abner B., Richmond.
						Haigh, Albert E., Madison.
						Haines, Charles F., Indianapolis.
						Haines, Henry T., Ft. Scott, Kan.
						Halderman, Charles W., Marion.
						Halderman, Jacob, Chicago, Ill.
						Hale, William B., Geneva.

						Hall, Charles E., Indianapolis.
						Hall, Don. K., Indianapolis.
						Hall, Edward F., Danville.
						Hall, Henry C., E. St. Louis, Ill.
						Hall, Henry H., Indianapolis.
						Hall, Lewis, Delphi.
						Hall, Martin B., Indianapolis.
						Hall, William H., Butte, Mont.
						Hall, William H., Seymour.
						Haller, Charles J., Attica.
						Haller, John B., Andrews.
						Ham, Charles, Frankfort.
						Hamelle, Wm. H., Monticello.
						Hamilton, Frank W., Indianapolis.
						Hamilton, G. H., Thorntown.
						Hamilton, L. G., Lafayette.
						Hamilton, S., Springfield, Mass.
						Hanch, Charles C., Indianapolis.
						Hancock, Edward L., Seymour.
						Hanika, Christian, Muncie.
						Hanna, Henry C., Ft. Wayne.
						Hanna, Hugh H., Jr., Indianapolis.
						Hannah, Robert H., Alexandria.
						Hanover, Henry D., Aurora.
						Harding, Daniel L., Ft. Wayne.
						Hargrove, R. C., Rushville.
						Harper, James B., Ft. Wayne.
						Harms, Charles A., Indianapolis.
						Harris, C. B., Nagasaki, Japan.
						Harris, Rolla, Indianapolis.
						Harris, Samuel, Franklin.
						Harrison, Jos. R., Colum. City.
						Harrison, Thomas G., Indianapolis.
						Harsh, George, Ft. Wayne.
						Hart, Frank B., Detroit, Mich.
						Hart, John P., Indianapolis.
						Hart, Joseph E., Vevay.
						Hart, Milton R., Crown Point.
						Hartley, John J., Muncie.
						Hartley, William A., Muncie.
						Harwood, George C., Marion.
						Hatfield, James C., Bluffton.
						Hatt, Perry, Hillsboro.

						

						Hattersley, Alfred, Ft. Wayne. 
						Hattersley, Willis, Ft. Wayne.
						Haueisen, William C., Indianapolis.
						Haugh, William C., Indianapolis.
						Haughton, Charles L., Oaktown.
						Hawes, Judson S., Indianapolis.
						Hawkins, Edward, Indianapolis.
						Hawkins, Roscoe O., 33º, Indianapolis.
						Hawkins, Sheridan, Indianapolis.
						Haworth, Mahlon C., Noblesville.
						Hayes, Joseph R., Indianapolis.
						Hayden John W., Ft. Wayne.
						Haynes, George V., Tipton.
						Haynes, Horace F., Indianapolis.
						Hays, Franklin W., Indianapolis.
						Haywood, Chas., New Richmond.
						Haywood, George P., Lafayette.
						Head, John W., Indianapolis.
						Head, Manson, Zionsville.
						Headington, F. C., Albion, Mich.
						Hearsey, Henry T., Indianapolis.
						Heath, Wilbur F., Danville, Ill.
						Heaton, Owen N., Ft. Wayne.
						Heberd, William J., Vincennes.
						Hebert, Oliver, Ft. Wayne.
						Heckman, Geo. C., Dubois, Pa.
						Heckman, John H., South Bend.
						Hedgcock, Jas. A., Frankfort.
						Hedge, W. B., Evansville.
						Heer, Henry W., Portsmouth, O.
						Hege, Charles, Columbus.
						Hege, Samuel, Columbus.
						Heim, Charles F., Marco.
						Heinl, John G., Terre Haute.
						Heit, Anthony W., Ft. Wayne.
						Helm, Louis C., Decatur.
						Helmer, Milo O., Mattoon, Ill.
						Helvic, Samuel S., Logansport.
						Hendee, John C., Garrett.
						Henderson, Harvey M., Chicago.
						Henderson, John O., Indianapolis.
						Henderson, Wm., Columbus.
						Hendrix, C. K., Benton Harbor, M.

						Henry, Albert J., Michigan City.
						Henry, James H., Warsaw.
						Henry, James M., Ft. Wayne.
						Henry, James R., Indianapolis.
						Henry, James W., Richmond.
						Henry, John C., South Whitley.
						Henry, William C., Aurora.
						Hepp, Charles L., Ft. Wayne.
						Heritage, Cyrinus F., Anderson.
						Hernly, Charles S., New Castle.
						Herriman, William, Lafayette.
						Herrmann, Arthur J., Logansport.
						Herrmann, George, Indianapolis.
						Herron, Fred M., Indianapolis.
						Hershman, Wm. H., N. Albany.
						Heskett, Wilber C., Roachdale.
						Hester, Wm. W., Chicago, Ill.
						Hetzel, Edgar B., Indianapolis.
						Hetzner, Cornelius N., Peru.
						Hewitt, Horace B., Indianapolis.
						Hiatt, Newton W., Marion.
						Hickman, Charles W., Attica.
						Higginbotham, S., New Castle.
						Higgins, Cecilius R., Ft. Wayne.
						Higgins, Julius J., Clinton, Ind.
						Higgins, William L., Indianapolis.
						Highlands, Homer H., Muncie.
						Hill, Edgar N., Carthage.
						Hill, George S., Wabash.
						Hill, Theo. H., Richmond.
						Hillis, Robert C., Logansport.
						Hillman, Samuel J., Cincinnati.
						Hilt, David, 14º, Lafayette.
						Hilton, Charles S., Mobile, Ala.
						Hindman, Jay A., Hartford City.
						Hindman, Walter M., Vincennes.
						Hines, William R., Frankfort.
						Hinkle, Clarence L., Evansville.
						Hinkle, James R., Sullivan.
						Hirt, Alfred, Greencastle.
						Hitchcock, D. K., Brimfield.
						Hirzel, Daniel, Terre Haute.
						Hoadley, Geo. A., 14º, Indianapolis.

						
						Hoddinott, F. D., Washington.
						Hodges, Edward F., Indianapolis.
						Hoff, Charles W., Terre Haute.
						Hoffman, Geo. I., Indianapolis.
						Hoffman, Gustav M., Ft. Wayne.
						Hoffman, John H., Jeffersonville.
						Hogin, William E., Marion.
						Hohl, Carl F., Indianapolis.
						Holland, Theodore F., Indianapolis.
						Holliday, John H., 33º, Indianapolis.
						Holliday, Francis T., Indianapolis.
						Holloway, Olin E., Knightstown.
						Holmes, Frank A., Attica.
						Holmes, H. F., Chattanooga, Tenn.
						Holt, John J., Colfax.
						Holt, Sterling R., Indianapolis.
						Holton, Charles P., Richmond.
						Holtzman, John W., Indianapolis.
						Hood, Perry, Pittsburg, Pa.
						Hook, Charles S., Union City.
						Hooton, Isaac P., Lebanon.
						Hoover, Harry F., Indianapolis.
						Hoover, Peter N., Boonville.
						Hopkins, Albert R., Rensselaer.
						Hopkins, Murat W., Indianapolis.
						Hornaday, William H., Forest.
						Horneflus, Benj. F., Indianapolis.
						Horner, Frank M., E. St. L., Ill.
						Horning, Charles, Logansport.
						Horsford, Wm. B., Mishawaka.
						Hose, James M., Linden.
						Hosmer, Robt. W., Detroit, Mich.
						Hough, William A., Greenfield.
						Hovey, Oliver H., Indianapolis.
						Howard, Louis L., Montpelier.
						Howe, Daniel W., Indianapolis.
						Howe, Maurice S., Wabash.
						Howe, Richard M., Edinburg.
						Howell, Glenn E., Fairmount.
						Hubbell, Orrin Z., Elkhart.
						Hudnut, Benj. G., Terre Haute.
						Hugg, Martin, Indianapolis.
						Hulett, Walter F., Crawfordsville.

						Hull, Matt. R., Rushville.
						Hull, Granv. H., 33º, Lafayette.
						Huller, Francis W., Bedford.
						Hulscher, F. H., Battle Creek, M.
						Hume, Harry S., Evansville.
						Humes, Geo. W., Muncie.
						Humphrey, E. H., Cortlandt, N.Y.
						Humphreys, David, Indianapolis.
						Humrichouser, Harry, Pierceton.
						Hunt, George E., Indianapolis.
						Hunt, Mason V., Anderson.
						Hunter, Edgar O., Indianapolis.
						Hunter, John R., Williamsport.
						Hunter, Harry, Indianapolis.
						Hunter, James M., Chicago, Ill.
						Hunter, Joseph A., Elwood.
						Hunter, M., Milwaukee, Wis.
						Huntington, John T., Indianapolis.
						Huntsinger, David E., South. Bend.
						Hurlbert, Charles E., Indianapolis.
						Hurlbert, Ralph L., Indianapolis.
						Huston, Frank, Montpelier.
						Huston, Henry A., Lafayette.
						Huston, James N., New York.
						Hutchins, Frank F., Richmond.
						Hutchins, Wm., Bloomington.
						Hutchins, B. Miles, Columbus.
						Hutchinson, Byron, Indianapolis.
						Hutchinson, C. L., 33º, Indianapolis.
						Hutchinson, J. W., Mishawaka.
						Huthsteiner, Gustave, Tell City.
						Ibach, Joseph G., Hammond.
						Ice, Franklin P., Mt. Summit.
						Ijams, William P., Terre Haute.
						Imes, Willis J., Rensselaer.
						Innis, William W., Milroy.
						Isbell, William C., Terre Haute.
						Isensee, Albert T., St. Louis, Mo.
						Isley, Jacob P., Attica.
						Izor, Albert, Indianapolis.
						Jackson, Dudley H., Indianapolis.
						Jackson, Harvey, Campbellsberg.



						

						Jackson, Lucius B., Lafayette.
						Jackson, Winfield E., Indianapolis.
						Jacobs, Duane D., Lafayette.
						Jacobs, James D., Indianapolis.
						Jacoby, Elias J., Indianapolis.
						Jaeger, Otto, Cicero.
						Jameson, Henry, Indianapolis.
						Jameson, Ovid B., Indianapolis.
						Janes, Frank E., Indianapolis.
						Jaques, Edw. M., Pittsburg, Pa. 
						Jaseph, Simeon, Evansville.
						Jeffries, William E., Indianapolis.
						Jenkins, Addison D., Kokomo.
						Jenkins, David C., Pittsburg, Pa.
						Jenkins, Winm. P., Chicago, Ill.
						Jenks, John W., Logansport.
						Jenner, Jas. W., New Albany.
						Jennings, Emil H., Franklin.
						Jennings, Geo. H., Templeton.
						Jennings, Max, Logansport.
						Jennings, Theo. C., Greencastle.
						Jennings, W. D., New Castle.
						Jewell, John, Columbus.
						John, Charles, Indianapolis.
						Johnson, Abbott L., Muncie.
						Johnson, Albert D., Indianapolis.
						Johnson, Americus E., Indianapolis.
						Johnson, Chas., Philada., Pa.
						Johnson, Daniel W., Richmond.
						Johnson, Edmund, Anderson.
						Johnson, Eudorus M., Indianapolis.
						Johnson, Harvey W., Mich. City.
						Johnson, J. Harry, Indianapolis.
						Johnson, John E., Muncie.
						Johnson, John W., Princeton.
						Johnson, Joseph K., Anderson.
						Johnson, Richard O., Indianapolis.
						Johnston, Jno. R., Hartford City.
						Johnston, Robt. F., Mich. City.
						Johnston, Samuel A., Indianapolis.
						Jones, Claudius C., Buffalo, N. Y.
						Jones, DeWitt C., Indianapolis.
						Jones, Earl C., New York.

						Jones, Herbert B., New Albany.
						Jones, Jonas E., Richmond.
						Jones, John C., Noblesville.
						Jones, Maurice L., Ft. Wayne.
						Jones, Robert R., Lafayette.
						Joss, Fred A., Indianapolis.
						Joy, John, Hobart.
						Judd, Anson A., Montpelier.
						Julian, Edgar J., Vincennes.
						Julien, Taylor E., Salida, Colo.
						Jungclaus, Wm. P., Indianapolis.
						Kaar, John, Kern City, Cal.
						Kahlo, George D., 14º, Indianapolis.
						Kahlo, Harry C., Indianapolis.
						Kamps, Frank G., Indianapolis.
						Kannal, Harvey J., Rensselaer.
						Karle, Christian, Indianapolis.
						Karstetter, Wm. B., Indianapolis.
						Kaylor, Wm. H., Indianapolis.
						Keehn, Clarence H., Indianapolis.
						Kevers, Gustave W., Indianapolis.
						Keiper, George F., Lafayette.
						Keller, August K., Indianapolis.
						Keller, Carl W., Logansport.
						Keller, Chas. H., Cambridge City
						Keller, C. Martin, Columbus.
						Keller, Emil F., Logansport.
						Keller, Frank H., Indianapolis.
						Keller, Robert, Indianapolis.
						Keller, Wm. P., Indianapolis.
						Kelley, Dennis, Winchester.
						Kelly, Eugene W., Muncie.
						Kendall, Wm. F., Columbus.
						Kendall, Wm. N., Chicago, Ill.
						Kennington, Ralph E., Indianapolis.
						Kent, James V., Frankfort.
						Kenyon, Clarence A., Indianapolis.
						Kercheval, Samuel E., Indianapolis.
						Kern, Geo. S., Indianapolis.
						Kern, John W., Indianapolis.
						Kerper, John M., Indianapolis.
						Kerr, Louis, Ligonier.
						Kerr, Robert D., Ligonier.


						

						Kessler, Elijah, Richmond.
						Ketcham, John M., Auburn.
						Kettler, Conrad F., Ft. Wayne.
						Kewney, John F., Michigan City.
						Keyser, George W., Indianapolis.
						Kiefer, Julius C., Martinsville.
						Kienzle, George F., Decatur.
						Kilbreath, U. G. N., Baltimore, O.
						Kimball, Harry W., Indianapolis.
						Kimball, Howard, Indianapolis.
						Kimball, Thomas C., Marion.
						Kimmell, David J., Frankfort.
						Kimmel, John, Lafayette.
						King, Carlos C., Montezuma.
						King, Charles D., Lebanon.
						King, George B., Lafayette.
						King, Richard H., Richmond.
						King, William L., Richmond.
						Kinney, Horace E., Indianapolis.
						Kirby, Geo., Col. Springs, Col.
						Kirby, Thomas H., Muncie.
						Kirk, Chas. C., Zanesville, O.
						Kirk, Geo. W. F., Shelbyville.
						Kirk, William A., Madison.
						Kirkhoff, J. Herman, Indianapolis.
						Kirkpatrick, James B., Indianapolis.
						Kirscher, Frank M., Garrett.
						Kittinger, Wm. A., Anderson.
						Klausmann, Henry W., Indianapolis.
						Kleder, George M., Milford.
						Kleist, Charles H., Brookston.
						Klingensmith, J. C., Montpelier.
						Klopfer, Frederick, Muncie.
						Knight, Charles S., Ft. Wayne.
						Knight, E. P., Boston, Mass.
						Knight, John, Indianapolis.
						Knight, Lucullus G., Montpelier.
						Knight, Wm. W., 14º, Indianapolis.
						Knoefel, Chas. D., New Albany.
						Knox, James C., Ladoga.
						Koehne, Armin C., Indianapolis.
						Koehring, Charles, Indianapolis.
						Koeppen, Jno. P., Marion.

						Koeppen, William F., Marion.
						Kohler, Charles F., Wabash.
						Kolsom, Jacob C., Terre Haute.
						Koons, Dell A., Keystone.
						Kotteman, Charles J., Indianapolis.
						Koss, William F., Indianapolis.
						Krauss, Charles, Indianapolis.
						Krauss, Frederick C., Indianapolis.
						Krauss, Paul H., Indianapolis.
						Krauss, Paul H., Jr., Indianapolis.
						Kregelo, Charles E., Indianapolis.
						Kretz, Lawrence C., Terre Haute
						Kreuger, August J., 18º, Indianapolis.
						Kriel, Charles W., Indianapolis.
						Krueger, Martin T., Mich. City.
						Kuhn, August M., Indianapolis.
						Kuhn, Charles J., Indianapolis.
						Kuhne, Charles W., Ft. Wayne.
						Kurtz, Isaac W., Peru.
						Kurz, Fred C., Indianapolis.
						Kyle, John J., Indianapolis.
						Laflin, Wm. H., Muncie.
						LaFollette, Chas. S., Peoria, Ill.
						LaFollette, H. M., LaFollette, T.
						Lalonde, James A., Hammond.
						LaMont, Robert V., Huntington.
						Lanam, Jesse H., Franklin.
						Lancaster, H. H., 33º, Lafayette.
						Land, Charles, Richmond.
						Land, Frank, Richmond.
						Land, Harry, Richmond.
						Landis, Jacob W., Edinburg.
						Lang, James M., Sullivan.
						Lantz, Joseph H., Garrett.
						Larimer, Joseph H., Peru.
						Larimore, Jas. M., Greenfield.
						Larsh, Lafayette, Richmond.
						Lash, Frederick, Jr., Hammond.
						Latchem, John B., Wabash.
						Lathrope, John, Delphi.
						Latimer, Lemen L., Mentone.
						Lauer, Charles, Indianapolis.
						Laughlin, T. C., 33º, N. Albany.


						

						Law, Charles D., Pittsburg, Pa.
						Lawrence, Geo. W., Col. City.
						Lay, Samuel C., Ridgeville.
						Layman, James T., Indianapolis.
						Leas, William H., Waterloo.
						Lee, Edwin M., Lawrenceburg.
						Lee, John W., St. Louis, Mo.
						Lee, Solon E., 14º, Indianapolis.
						Lee, Thomas B., Bourbon.
						Lee, Thomas G., Indianapolis.
						Leedy, Ulysses G., Indianapolis.
						Leedy, William H., Indianapolis.
						Leeson, D. Ellery, Elwood.
						Lederer, Wm. F., Valparaiso.
						Leftwich, Edgar A., Indianapolis.
						Leist, Albert H., Michigan City.
						Legg, Edward, Indianapolis.
						Leggett, George E., Winchester.
						Leighty, Jacob D., 33º, Indianapolis.
						Lemen, Oliver M., Indianapolis.
						Leonard, James H., New York.
						Leonard, John D., Lafayette.
						Lesh, Charles P., Indianapolis.
						Lester, Durward B., Indianapolis.
						LeValley, Geo. W., Frankfort.
						Levering, Abraham, Lafayette.
						Levering, Mortimer, Lafayette.
						Levey, Louis H., Indianapolis.
						Levey, Marshall T., Indianapolis.
						Lewis, E. R., Washington, D. C.
						Lewis, Frank W., Indianapolis.
						Lewman, Leon D., Mobile, Ala.
						Leyden, Isaac P., New Albany.
						Liebman, Ernest F., Ft. Wayne.
						Likert, George, Indianapolis.
						Lillard, Lewis C., Marion.
						Lilly, Charles, Indianapolis.
						Lilly, George, Anderson.
						Lilly, James W., Indianapolis.
						Lindley, John M., Columbus.
						Linn, C. Harry, Indianapolis.
						Linn, Thomas B., Indianapolis.
						Lipsett, William E., Ft. Wayne.

						Liscum, Jas. R., Chillicothe, Ill.
						Little, James M., Greencastle.
						Loehr, Edgar C., Noblesville.
						Loesch, George H., Ft. Wayne.
						Lockwood, Virgil H., 14º, Indianapolis.
						Logan, John R., Wabash.
						Lomas, Chas., W. Superior, Wis.
						Lones, Jerome H., Warsaw.
						Long, Jesse R., Muncie.
						Long, John B., Indianapolis.
						Loomis, Arthur, Louisville, Ky.
						Loomis, Fred M., Indianapolis.
						Losey, Robert C., Cincinnati, O.
						Louden, George W., Indianapolis.
						Loughery, Alva W., Indianapolis.
						Louthan, David K., Indianapolis.
						Lovett, John W., 14º, Anderson.
						Lowe, Richard H., 14º, Indianapolis.
						Lukenbill, Orestes C., Indianapolis.
						Lumbert, Orrin N., Elkhart.
						Lynch, A. D., Washington, D. C.
						Lynch, Edmund B., Greencastle.
						Lynch, Joel Y., Rosedale.
						McBride, R. Wes., Indianapolis.
						McCabe, Charles M., Covington.
						McCaifrey, Jas., Cambridge City
						McCausland, Jno. W., Ft. Wayne.
						McClamrock, A. A., Frankfort.
						McClamrock, Jas., Frankfort.
						McClaren, Wm. B., Frankfort.
						McCleary, Hill T., Columbus, O.
						McClelland, M. L., Valparaiso.
						McClung, Charles S., LaPorte.
						McClure, Jas. H., Denver, Colo.
						McCoy, George W., Vincennes.
						McCoy, Thomas J., Rensselaer.
						McCracken, Jas. K., Ft. Wayne.
						McCrady, Cyrus E., Seymour.
						McCray, Elmer E., Kendallville.
						McCready, Frank T., Indianapolis.
						McCready, John E., Indianapolis.
						McCulloch, John L., Marion.
						McCullough, C. K., Anderson.


						

						McCutcheon, J. H., Evansville.
						McCutcheon, John C., Indianapolis.
						McDaniel, Harry, Zionsville.
						McDermond, Joseph F., Attica.
						McDonald, Daniel, Plymouth.
						McDonald, Joseph H., Indianapolis.
						McDonald, Theo. A., Cairo, Ill.
						McFerron, S. M., Fort Wayne.
						McGee, Elbert B., Bloomington.
						McGill, Henry, LaPorte.
						McGill, John A., Chicago, Ill.
						McGinnis, George F., Indianapolis.
						McGowan, Jno. W., Oakland City.
						McGrew, James W., Indianapolis.
						McGuire, John H., Wabash.
						Mcllvain, Thos. O., Huntington.
						McIntyre, J. H., St. Louis, Mo.
						McIntosh, Andrew J., Indianapolis.
						McKay, David, Ft. Wayne.
						McKean, John L., Ft. Wayne.
						McKeand, Robert A., Indianapolis.
						McKee, Alexander P., Anderson.
						McKee, Thomas D., Montpelier.
						McKee, Wm. J., 33º, Indianapolis.
						McKeever, C. O., Terre Haute.
						McKeever, Fred., Terre Haute.
						McKey, Benj. F., Lebanon.
						McKown, Frank E., Frankfort.
						McLallen, Elisha L., Col. City.
						McLallen, Walter F., Col. City.
						McLaughlin, Albert, Columbus.
						McLaughlin, Geo. N., Muncie.
						McMaster, John L., Indianapolis.
						McMeans, Caleb W., Brimfield.
						McMurray, Welcome B., Indianapolis.
						McNary, Wm. F., Alexandria.
						McNaughton, Jno., Sault St. Marie.
						McNaughton, Wm. A., Muncie.
						McShane, John T., Indianapolis.
						McVey, Hugh O'Neal, Indianapolis.
						McWorkman, Willard, Indianapolis.
						MacIntyre, Chas. T., Indianapolis.
						Mackey, Arthur N., Chicago, Ill.

						MacKibbin, Stuart, So. Bend.
						Macomber, H. H., Kendallville.
						Macy, Charles B., Noblesville.
						Magee, Robert L., Fort Wayne.
						Maguire, Charles, Indianapolis.
						Mahan, Oliver P., Rockville.
						Mahurin, M. S., Fort Wayne.
						Maier, Bernd., Edinburg.
						Maley, Henry, Edinburg.
						Mallett, Geo. O., Hammond.
						Mallory, Wm. H., Veedersburg.
						Malott, Charles G., Bedford.
						Malott, Chas. M., St. Louis, Mo.
						Malpas, Rolla M., Indianapolis.
						Malsbarry, Alfred E., Peru.
						Manes, John, Logansport.
						Manley, Abel R., Indianapolis.
						Manly, Abel R., Fairmount.
						Manlove, Orton R., Fort Wayne.
						Mangold, Martin, Washington, D.C.
						Mann, Edward H., New Albany.
						Manning, Chauncey A., Indianapolis.
						Mannfeld, William C., Indianapolis.
						Manny, Wm. B., Michigan City.
						Mansfield, Henry A., Indianapolis.
						Manson, M. F., Crawfordsville.
						Manson, Wm. L., New York.
						Mansur, Charles W., Indianapolis.
						Marker, William H., Tipton.
						Markle, John E., Winchester.
						Markley, G. W., Crawfordsville.
						Marks, Schuyler C., Lafayette.
						Marlatt, Samuel, Richmond.
						Marsh, Ephraim, Greenfield.
						Marshall, Henry W., Lafayette.
						Marshall, Hubert J., 33º, Aurora.
						Marshall, Rich. S., Frankfort.
						Marshall, T. R., 33º, Columbia City.
						Martin, Aveston H., Rosedale.
						Martin, Claudius N., Marion.
						Martin, Emil, Indianapolis.
						Martin, Harry C., Attica.
						Martin, Henry D., Indianapolis.


						

						Martin, John, Indianapolis.
						Martin, Joseph, Rosedale.
						Martin, Overton H., Rosedale.
						Martin, Parks M., Spencer.
						Martin, Valentine, Rosedale.
						Martin, Wm. H., Bedford.
						Maris, James D., 14º, Indianapolis.
						Masters, Alva T., Lebanon.
						Mather, William J., Indianapolis.
						Mathers, J. E., Chichasha, I. T.
						Matthews, Francis E., Bedford.
						Matthews, Fred., Ellettsville.
						Matthews, Oliver H., Warsaw.
						Matthews, Oscar, Lafayette.
						Matthews, Wm. M., Bedford.
						Matters, Harry W., Evansville.
						Mattison, H. A., 14º, Evansville.
						Mauk, Francis M., Ft. Wayne.
						Maxim, Josiah W., Newcastle.
						Maxwell, Marvin R., Indianapolis.
						Maxwell, Wm. E., Indianapolis.
						May, Willis T., Indianapolis.
						Maybin, William, Aurora.
						Mayfield, Frank F., Edinburg.
						Meader, Ira F., Chicago, Ill.
						Meeker, Charles A., Lafayette.
						Mehlig, Lewis, Kokomo.
						Meier, William H., Cleveland, O.
						Meir, Louis, Jr., Indianapolis.
						Melcher, Charles G., Elkhart.
						Mellette, Loring W., Elwood.
						Meredith, Edw. F., Washington.
						Merrifield, Chas. E., Indianapolis.
						Merrill, Basil T., Crawfordsville.
						Merrill, Cad E., Frankfort.
						Merrill, Chas. H., Lester, Ark.
						Merrill, Squire W., Fostoria, O.
						Merritt, George H., Ft. Wayne.
						Messick, John F., Indianapolis.
						Metzner, Jasper, Ft. Wayne.
						Meuser, John R., Indianapolis.
						Meyer, Adolph J., Indianapolis.
						Meyer, August B., Indianapolis.

						Meyer, Charles F., Indianapolis.
						Meyer, Edward H., Indianapolis.
						Meyer, George F., Indianapolis.
						Meyer, Thomas, Logansport.
						Michener, L. T., Washington,D.C.
						Miesse, Harry, Grand Rapids, M.
						Mikels, Charles N., Newcastle.
						Miles, LeRoy, Milford.
						Miles, Preston F., Milford.
						Miller, Albert S., Crawfordsville.
						Miller, Alonzo J., W. Lebanon.
						Miller, Charles E., Muncie.
						Miller, Chas. H., Cincinnati, O.
						Miller, Charles W., Goshen.
						Miller, Edgar S., Indianapolis.
						Miller, Montg. L., Princeton.
						Miller, Samuel A., Corydon.
						Millikan, Wm. W., Thorntown.
						Millis, Wm. A., Attica.
						Mills, George E., Indianapolis.
						Mills, W. Morton, Ladoga.
						Milnor, John E., Indianapolis.
						Miner, Willis R., Indianapolis.
						Minor, John W., Indianapolis.
						Minor, John W., Jr., Indianapolis.
						Mitchell, Darius C., Muncie.
						Mitchell, Isaac A., Brazil.
						Mitchell, James H., Lafayette.
						Mitchell, Joseph A., Indianapolis.
						Mitchell, Oliver M., Edinburg.
						Mitchell, Robt. B., Chicago, Ill.
						Mitchell, Winm. C., Lafayette.
						Mitchell, William S., Indianapolis.
						Mitten, Joseph W., Fort Wayne.
						Mix, Melville W., Mishawaka.
						Modes, Charles H., Cicero.
						Moler, Levi F., Indianapolis.
						Moller, C. W. Gustav, Indianapolis.
						Monks, Leander J., Winchester.
						Montgomery, J., parkersburg,W.Va
						Montgomery, Wm. A., Gosport.
						Monyhan, Jonce, Orleans.
						Moody, George A., Findlay, O.


						

						Moore, Ambrose, Indianapolis.
						Moore, Edward D., Indianapolis.
						Moore, Edwin F., Indianapolis.
						Moore, Harvey A., Irvington.
						Moore, Jesse C., Indianapolis.
						Moore, John S., Muncie.
						Moore, Thad. S., Terre Haute.
						Moore, W. Scott, Indianapolis.
						Moorman, Jesse T., Winchester.
						Moorman, Thos. F., Winchester.
						Mordough, C. C., Milwaukee,Wis.
						Mordhurst, H. W., 33º, Ft.Wayne.
						Morgan, Brown H., Clinton.
						Morgan, Thomas, Muncie.
						Morrell, Lewis H., Indianapolis.
						Morris, Elwood, Richmond.
						Morris, Maurice, New Albany.
						Morris, James W., Indianapolis.
						Morris, Joshua I., Newcastle.
						Morris, Willard H., Frankfort.
						Morrison, Henry Y., Frankfort.
						Morrison, James W., Frankfort.
						Morrison, Lewis E., Indianapolis.
						Morrison, Martin A., Frankfort.
						Morrison, Samuel L., Indianapolis.
						Morrison, W. S., Huntington.
						Morse, Robert P., Indianapolis.
						Morse, Thomas J., Indianapolis.
						Morse, William, Indianapolis.
						Mosel, George J., Columbus, O.
						Mosiman, Emanuel E., Bluffton.
						Moss, David F., 14º, Noblesville.
						Mothershead, John L., Indianapolis.
						Mouch, Charles W., Newcastle.
						Mowrer, James M., Indianapolis.
						Moyer, H. A., 33º, Kendallville.
						Mueller, Charles G., Indianapolis.
						Mueller, George H., Indianapolis.
						Mueller, Gustav H., Indianapolis.
						Mulkins, Albert R., Edinburg.
						Mull, Cory, Indianapolis.
						Mull, Frank A., Manilla.
						Mull, George F., Indianapolis.

						Mull, Thomas K., Manilla.
						Mullins, Harvey, Indianapolis.
						Mulvey, Charles B., Montpelier.
						Munk, Herman, Connersville.
						Murphy, Augustus, Indianapolis.
						Murphy, Charles J., Brookston.
						Murphy, Chas. S., 14º, Indianapolis.
						Murphy, Clinton, Rockville.
						Murphy, Thomas F., Richmond.
						Murray, Wm. E., Winchester.
						Mutz, George A., Edinburg.
						Muzzy, Frank A., Indianapolis.
						Myer, John C., Terre Haute.
						Myer, Louis A., Vincennes.
						Myers, Alvah H., Logansport.
						Myers, Charles C., Warren.
						Myers, David A., Greensburg.
						Myers, Henry G., Indianapolis.
						Myers, N. H., Jeffersonville.
						Nagel, Eugene L., Terre Haute.
						Nebeker, Sewell A., Indianapolis.
						Needham, E. F., Springfield, Ill.
						Neely, Ira L., Fairmount.
						Neely, Lon M., Muncie.
						Neighbors, William L., Lapel.
						Neil, Edward J., Goodland.
						Neipp, Christian, Terre Haute.
						Nelson, Fred H., Mineral Springs.
						Nethery, Joseph W., Indianapolis.
						Netterville, Jas. J., Anderson.
						New, Harry S., Indianapolis.
						Newby, L. P., Knightstown.
						Newhouse, G. A., Sr., N. Albany.
						Newhouse, G. A., Jr., N. Albany.
						Newkirk, Geo., West Middleton.
						Newpher, William, Logansport.
						Niblack, Mason J., 33º,Vincennes
						Niblack, Wm. C., Chicago, Ill.
						Nicholes, Samuel E., Medaryville.
						Nichols, Alonzo S., 33º, Mich.City
						Nichols, Smith T., Indianapolis.
						Niece, Charles E., Geneva.
						Nicholson, John H., 33º, Richmond.


						

						Nicholson, Josiah W., Richmond.
						Nickey, Addison P., Princeton
						Nickey, Samuel M., Princeton.
						Nickey, William E., Princeton.
						Nickum, John R., Indianapolis.
						Nisbet, David A., Evansville.
						Niven, Richard E., Thorntown.
						Noble, William T., Indianapolis.
						Norris, Hiram, Indianapolis.
						North, Geo. W., Columbia City.
						Norton, Clinton S., Bedford.
						Norton, Fred D., Bedford.
						Norwood, Jas. A., Southport.
						Noyes, Daniel, LaPorte.
						Nugent, John R., Bedford.
						Null, Lycurgus S., New Haven.
						Nye, Charles F., Warsaw.
						O'Brien, James, Indianapolis.
						O'Brien, Wm. H., Lawrenceburg.
						Oddy, Tom, Indianapolis.
						Off, Albert H., Indianapolis.
						Off, William F., Indianapolis.
						Oglesbee, Rollo B., Plymouth.
						Oliphant, Wm. A., Petersburg.
						Oliver, John H., Indianapolis.
						Oliver, Joseph, Michigan City.
						Oneal, Oren, Chicago, Ill.
						Orff, Chas. E., Fort Wayne.
						Orndorff, James H., Indianapolis.
						O'Rourke, Edw., Ft. Wayne.
						Orr, Jared H., Michigan City.
						Osborn, David W., Lebanon.
						Overly, Elmer E., Indianapolis.
						Overman, Lindley M., Marion.
						Overstreet, Jesse, Indianapolis.
						Page, Thomas V., Indianapolis.
						Paine, William H., Indianapolis.
						Painter, Parrin P., Alexandria.
						Palmer, Edwin D., Richmond.
						Palmer, Harry E., Richmond.
						Palmer, Truman F., Monticello.
						Palmer, Victor C., Muncie.
						Pantzer, Hugo O., Indianapolis.

						Park, Henry I., Kendallville.
						Parker, Chas. J. W., Jr., Indianapolis.
						Parker, Edwin L., Orland.
						Parker, Ezra T., Logansport.
						Parker, James O., Evansville.
						Parrott, Horace, Indianapolis.
						Parry, David M., Indianapolis.
						Parry, Edward R., Indianapolis.
						Parry, Edward S., Danville, Ill.
						Parry, Roger, Indianapolis.
						Parry, St. Clair, Indianapolis.
						Parry, Thomas H., Indianapolis.
						Patrick, Eph. W., Evansville.
						Patterson, Chas. F., Edinburg.
						Patterson, John W., 14º, Indianapolis.
						Patterson, Wm. O., Indianapolis.
						Patton, Charles U., Indianapolis.
						Patton, Phillip B., Marion.
						Paul, William M., Ft. Wayne.
						Payne, Earl H., Rushville.
						Payne, Gavin L., Indianapolis.
						Payne, Roscoe W., Franklin.
						Payne, Samuel J., Wabash.
						Peabody, Jas. B., LaFontaine.
						Peacock, James, Massillon, O.
						Peake, Benjamin I., Indianapolis.
						Peake, James T., Indianapolis.
						Pearce, Walter M., Rushville.
						Pearse, Walter E., Indianapolis.
						Pearson, Charles D., Indianapolis.
						Pearson, John R., Indianapolis.
						Pearson, Ora, St. Louis, Mo.
						Peck, Charles H., Indianapolis.
						Peck, Will H., 18º, Indianapolis.
						Peelle, Stanton J., Washington, D.C.
						Pendergast, John C., Indianapolis.
						Pendleton, Albert D., Indianapolis.
						Pennington, W. D., French Lick.
						Penrod, John N., Goshen.
						Perfect, James A., Angola.
						Perkins, J. Wallace, Muncie.
						Perkins, Julian W., Indianapolis.
						Permar, William I., Dunkirk.


						

						Perrin, George W., Lebanon.
						Perrin, John O., Lafayette.
						Perrin, Van Buren, Ft. Wayne.
						Perry, Clark, 14º, Indianapolis.
						Perry, William, Kentland.
						Perryman, Wm. E., Chicago, Ill.
						Peter, William F., Seymour.
						Peters, Will C., Goshen.
						Pettinger, George C., Indianapolis.
						Pfafflin, Henry A., Indianapolis.
						Pfafflin, Theo., New York, N. Y.
						Pfeffer, C., Edward, Indianapolis.
						Phelps, William H., Indianapolis.
						Philbrick, Claude M., Garrett.
						Phipps, George A., Pendleton.
						Phythian, Robert L., Indianapolis.
						Pickens, Wm. A., 14º, Indianapolis.
						Pierce, C. H., Correctionville, Ia.
						Pierce, James E., Indianapolis.
						Pierce, Oliver W., Indianapolis.
						Pierson, Chiron C., Indianapolis.
						Pirkey, Jacob H., Indianapolis.
						Pixley, Geo. W., 33º, Ft. Wayne.
						Plyley, Elmer C., Lafayette.
						Poague, Geo. W., Towner, N. D.
						Pond, Olen J., New Haven.
						Pontius, Homer, Geneva.
						Porter, Miles F., Fort Wayne.
						Porter, Wm. H., Logansport.
						Porter, John A., Indianapolis.
						Posey, W. A., Lame Deer, Mont.
						Posten, Sanford M., Rushville.
						Potter, Joseph L., Indianapolis.
						Potter, Samuel L., Muncie.
						Pottinger, John W., LaPorte.
						Powell, L. G. A., Wabash.
						Power, J. Clyde, Indianapolis.
						Powers, Frank M., Angola.
						Prass, Otto A., Lafayette.
						Prather, Austin B., Indianapolis.
						Prather, Calvin W., Indianapolis.
						Pratt, Wm. D., Indianapolis.


						Prentiss, J. H. F., 14º, Indianapolis.
						Prescott, George H., Logansport.
						Price, William F., Orleans.
						Price, Wnm. H., Clinton, Iowa.
						Pritchard, Caleb A., Gosport.
						Pritchard, Evan H., Indianapolis.
						Prosser, Percy J., Indianapolis.
						Puett, Shelby C., Rockville.
						Pugh, Edwin B., Indianapolis.
						Pugh, Finley B., Indianapolis.
						Pugh, George E., Terre Haute.
						Pulman, Bernard, Kendallville.
						Purman, D. M., Phoenix, Ariz.
						Pyke, Albert D., Romney.
						Quackenbush, A.W., Cape Girardeau, M.
						Quick, Wm. H. H., Frankton.
						Quinn, French, Decatur.
						Rader, Thos. B., Jeffersonville.
						Raffensperger, Hiram C., Indianapolis.
						Rakestraw, Samuel A., Muncie.
						Raidy, Orville E., Terre Haute.
						Rainey, Harvey W., Irvington.
						Ramsdell, Geo. G., Phila., Pa.
						Randall, Perry A., Ft. Wayne.
						Randall, Sumner K., Avilla.
						Randall, Theo. A., Indianapolis.
						Raschbacher, Emil L., Indianapolis.
						Raschig, Maurice H., Indianapolis.
						Rassmann, Emil C., Indianapolis.
						Ratliff, Walter S., Richmond.
						Ratcliff, Cornelius, Richmond.
						Rauch, John, Indianapolis.
						Raub, Edward B., Indianapolis.
						Rea, Charles F., Madison.
						Read, Charles E., Ft. Wayne.
						Reagan, Jos. E., Indianapolis.
						Rebesberger, Henry, Indianapolis.
						Redford, O. W., Spokane, Wash.
						Redmond, John E., Logansport.
						Reed, Will B., Attica.
						Rees, Joseph H., Marion.
						Reeves, Elmer E., Princeton.

						

						Reeves, Girnie L., Columbus.
						Reeves, Marshall T., Columbus.
						Reeves, Milton O., Columbus.
						Rehm, George H., Indianapolis.
						Reichart, John C., Castleton.
						Reid, Thomas, Indianapolis.
						Reiman, Ewald E., Terre Haute.
						Reinshagen, Harry B., Indianapolis.
						Reiter, George, Ft. Wayne.
						Renick, Henry S., Greencastle.
						Retherford, Austin, Anderson.
						Reyher, Jacob, Kendallville.
						Reynolds, Frank F., Indianapolis.
						Rhode, Jacob M., Hickman, Ill.
						Rhode, John W., Rainsville.
						Rice, Martin H., 33º, Indianapolis.
						Rich, Wm. S., Indianapolis.
						Richards, John R., New Albany.
						Richards, Wm. J., Indianapolis.
						Richardson, Benj. A., Indianapolis.
						Richardson, Benj. F., Warsaw.
						Richardson, Thos. M., Irvington.
						Richardson, Wm. W., Indianapolis.
						Richason, Wm. N., Detroit, Mich.
						Richey, M. M., Mauch Chunk, Pa
						Richey, Webster S., Muncie.
						Richey, Weldon L., Indianapolis.
						Richie, Isaac N., Indianapolis.
						Ridgely, Henry D., Indianapolis.
						Rigdon, Frank H., Marion.
						Riley, Chas. C., Cincinnati, O.
						Riley, Wm. J., 14º, Indianapolis.
						Risk, William L., Greensboro.
						Ritchie, Will S., Lebanon.
						Ritter, Peter, Winchester.
						Roach, Edward C., Evansville.
						Roache, Addison L., Indianapolis.
						Robbins, Albert C., Auburn.
						Robbins, John E., Greensburg.
						Robbins, Irvin, Indianapolis.
						Roberts, Benjamin, Indianapolis.
						Roberts, James W., Mattoon, Ill.
						Robertson, Asa P., Noblesville.

						Robertson, Robt. S., Ft. Wayne.
						Robeson, Wm. C., Toledo, O.
						Robie, Guy S., Richmond.
						Robie, Wm. J., 33º, Richmond.
						Robinson, Andrew J., Lafayette.
						Robinson, Hayden, Indianapolis.
						Robinson, J. R., Crawfordsville.
						Robinson, John J., Lima, O.
						Robison, Edward J., Indianapolis.
						Rockhill, Wm. W., Ft. Wayne.
						Rockwood, Charles B., Indianapolis.
						Rockwood, Charles E., Indianapolis.
						Rogers, Benj. F., Indianapolis.
						Rogers, James, Ft. Wayne.
						Rogers, John S., Bloomington.
						Rogers, Nat. P., Michigan City.
						Rolf, John F., Cincinnati, Ohio.
						Roll, William H., Indianapolis.
						Roney, William H., Cicero.
						Roney, William S., Terre Haute.
						Root, C. G., Minneapolis, Minn.
						Root, Henry A., Michigan City.
						Roots, Francis T., Connersville.
						Roscoe, James, Albion.
						Rose, Hiram E., Indianapolis.
						Rose, Theodore F., Muncie.
						Ross, Charles A., Indianapolis.
						Ross, Fred T., Indianapolis.
						Ross, John, Peru.
						Ross, Moses N., Evansville.
						Ross, Scott G., Chalmers.
						Rossetter, Waldo B., Indianapolis.
						Rossier, Henry, Martinsville.
						Rossington, R. B., Ft. Wayne.
						Rouser, Charles, Indianapolis.
						Rowe, Harry F., Indianapolis.
						Rowland, H. W., Franklin, Pa.
						Rude, J. Frank, Liberty.
						Rude, Squire B., Liberty.
						Rudy, Chaning L., Hagerstown.
						Ruef, Elmer E., Indianapolis.
						Ruef, W. H., Poughkeepsie, N. Y.
						Ruff, Joseph J., Hammond.

						

						Rundell, Clarence C., Indianapolis.
						Runyan, Eugene, New Castle.
						Rumford, Frank L., Indianapolis.
						Rupe, John L., Richmond.
						Rurode, Ernest C., Ft. Wayne.
						Ruschaupt, Charles F., Indianapolis.
						Rush, John J., Smith's Valley.
						Russ, Charles A., Chicago, Ill.
						Russell, C. P., New River, Tenn.
						Russell, Edward E., Kokomo.
						Russell, Isaac O., Lafayette.
						Rutherford, Robert S., Galena.
						Rutledge, Thos. C., Indianapolis.
						Rutter, Richard S., Warsaw.
						Ryse, Richard, Indianapolis.
						Safford, Jas. B., 33º, Crafton, Pa.
						Sample, K. G., Webb City, Mo.
						Sampsell, Homer A., Indianapolis.
						Samson, Almon, Benton Harbor,Mich
						Sappenfield, E. C., Campbellsburg.
						Sargent, Frank P., Peoria, Ill.
						Sargent, Leonard S., Indianapolis.
						Sargent, O. B., 33º, Logansport.
						Sargent, Theo. C., Lafayette.
						Sattely, James S., Attica.
						Sawyer, Fred E., Indianapolis.
						Sawyer, Jno. M., 14º, Indianapolis.
						Sayles, Charles F., Indianapolis.
						Sayre, G. B., White Pigeon, Mich.
						Scanlan, John L., Indianapolis.
						Schaal, Geo. A., Terre Haute.
						Schaefer, C. Richard, Indianapolis.
						Schad, Frederick E., 18º, Indianapolis.
						Schanz, Alfred B., Attica.
						Schaufler, H. J., Terre Haute.
						Schell, Albert J., Middletown.
						Schellschmidt, A., 14º, Indianapolis.
						Schenck, G. M., Whitestown.
						Schepman, Geo. W., Richmond.
						Schick, Albert A., Marion.
						Schilling, Carl, Fort Wayne.
						Schlatzhauer, Geo. J., 14º, Indianapolis.
						Schlimper, C. F. W:, Boston, Mass

						Schmidt, Lorenz, Indianapolis.
						Schmidt, Wm. H., 33º, Indianapolis.
						Schneider, Karl J., Indianapolis.
						Scholl, Logan C., Indianapolis.
						Scholz, Fred J., Indianapolis.
						Schomberg, Wm. L., Indianapolis.
						Schonacker, Hubert J., Indianapolis.
						Schopbach, Emil, Lebanon.
						Schoppenhorst, Wm., Indianapolis.
						Schrader, Chas. H., Indianapolis.
						Schroer, Edward E., Indianapolis.
						Schuhmacher, Jos. I., Anderson.
						Schultz, William, Logansport.
						Schultz, William H., Lebanon.
						Schumacher, John A., Indianapolis.
						Schussler, Frank, Indianapolis.
						Schwager, Henry A., Mich. City.
						Scott, Chas. H., Matthews.
						Scott, Charles W., Warsaw.
						Scott, Elias, Wabash.
						Scott, Frank W., Lancaster, O.
						Scott, Harry K., Angola.
						Scott, Robert F., Indianapolis.
						Scott, Walter P., Indianapolis.
						Scott, William, Indianapolis.
						Scott, Wm. G., Greenfield.
						Scott, Wm. H., Grafton, N. D.
						Scott, Winfield H., Chicago, Ill.
						Seavey, Walter R., Fort Wayne.
						Seeburger, Louis P., Terre Haute.
						Sedgewick, De Witt, South Bend.
						Sefrit, Chas. G., Evansville.
						Seguin, Edward S. R., Indianapolis.
						Seiberling, Alton G., Peoria, Ill.
						Seibert, Geo. W., Indianapolis.
						Seiter, Victor E., Logansport.
						Sellers, Emory B., Monticello.
						Sergeant, Chas. A., Edinburg.
						Severson, Wilbur F., Lafayette.
						Seybold, J. Abner, Logansport.
						Shafer, Harvey G., Indianapolis.
						Shafer, William J., Boonville.
						Shambaugh, S. S., Ridgeville.


						

						Shaneberger, Albert H., Indianapolis.
						Shank, C. D., Washington, D. C.
						Shanklin, John C., Frankfort.
						Shannon, Chas. F., Brazil.
						Sharitts, Vernon B., Ladoga.
						Sharp, John E., Indianapolis.
						Sharpe, Joseph K., Jr., Indianapolis.
						Shearer, Samuel H., Indianapolis.
						Sheffield, Geo. S., Chicago, Ill.
						Shelburne, Wm. T., Zionsville.
						Sheldon, Frank C., Shelbyville.
						Shepard, John, Seymour.
						Shera, Frank D., Indianapolis.
						Sherman, Charles J., Indianapolis.
						Sherman, Cuthbert J., Sullivan.
						Shideler, David B., Indianapolis.
						Shideler, Geo. A. H., Mich. City.
						Shideler, Isaac, Logansport.
						Shirk, John C., Brookville.
						Shiveley, Dudley M., So. Bend.
						Shobe, Henry C., Kirkpatrick.
						Short, Luther, Franklin.
						Shorten, John A., Logansport.
						Shortridge, Jas. M., St. Paul.
						Shreeve, George W., Anderson.
						Shufelton, Thomas P., Indianapolis.
						Shultz, Jay O., Indianapolis.
						Shultz, John B., Logansport.
						Shumaker, S. F., Chicago, Ill.
						Shuman, Gilbert E., Peru.
						Shuppe, Jonathan E., Marion.
						Sigler, Daniel, Elwood.
						Simmons, John A., Indianapolis.
						Simpson, Benj., Carbon.
						Simpson, Orin, 14º, Center.
						Simonton, Robt., Huntington.
						Simons, Melvin H., Montpelier.
						Sipe, Jacob C., Indianapolis.
						Sipp, B. Frank, Connersville.
						Sipp, William W., Haubstadt.
						Siver, Emett L., Ft. Wayne.
						Slack, James R., Huntington.
						Slater, Frank A., Washington.

						Slick, Chas. W., Mishawaka.
						Sloan, Chas. E., Indianapolis.
						Sloan, George B., Indianapolis.
						Sloan, Geo. W., 33º, Indianapolis.
						Smiley, J. Gaylord, Thorntown.
						Smiley, Thomas G., Indianapolis.
						Smith, A. Nicholas, Terre Haute.
						Smith, Aaron J., Lebanon.
						Smith, David E., Decatur.
						Smith, Edwin W., Brazil.
						Smith, Frank S., Waukesha, Wis.
						Smith, Harry B., Indianapolis.
						Smith, Henry B., 16º, Indianapolis.
						Smith, Henry L., Indianapolis.
						Smith, Henry L., Rossville.
						Smith, Horace E., Indianapolis.
						Smith, J. Elkanah, New Castle.
						Smith, Jacob W., 33º, Indianapolis.
						Smith, J. Giles, Wichita, Kan.
						Smith, John H., Muncie.
						Smith, John M., Lafayette.
						Smith, John S., Galveston.
						Smith, John W., Indianapolis.
						Smith, Joseph L., 33º, Richmond.
						Smith, Merrill N., Terre Haute.
						Smith, Morris C., Versailles.
						Smith, Oscar R., 14º, Dunkirk.
						Smith, Theo. W., Indianapolis.
						Smith, Wilson C., Marion.
						Smith, Wm. H., Rushville.
						Smither, Henry C., Indianapolis.
						Smock, Fred C., Indianapolis.
						Smock, Hanford E., Indianapolis.
						Smock, James C., Delphi.
						Smythe, Elmer A., Indianapolis.
						Smythe, Wm. H., 33º, Indianapolis.
						Snavely, Will K., Wabash.
						Snow, Henry, Greenfield.
						Snyder, Frank L., Crawfordsville.
						Snyder, H. K., Jacksonville, Ill.
						Snyder, William, LaFontaine.
						Snyder, William R., Muncie.
						Snyder, William V., Frankfort.


						

						Somes, James E., Terre Haute.
						Sonntag, Edward F., Evansville.
						Sorensen, Niele C., Indianapolis.
						Souders, Orin O., Indianapolis.
						South, Ellis E., Terre Haute.
						Southern, Thos. J., Indianapolis.
						Sowers, Frank, Medaryville.
						Spafford, Thos. E., 14º, Indianapolis.
						Spang, Henry M., Terre Haute.
						Spencer, Frank W., Lafayette.
						Spencer, Wm. W., Indianapolis.
						Spielman, John A., Garrett.
						Spies, Charles F., Boswell.
						Spitler, Charles G., Rensselaer.
						Sponhauer, Widler S., Ft. Wayne.
						Sprague, Harry E., Ft. Wayne.
						Stahl, Charles F., Ft. Wayne.
						Staley, James P., Lebanon.
						Stalnaker, Frank D., Indianapolis.
						Stansbury, Robt. J., Ligonier.
						Stanton, Robert F., Madison.
						Staton, Millard F., Thorntown.
						Staub, Alexander, Ft. Wayne.
						Staub, John W., 33º, Indianapolis.
						Stebbins, Bert L., Elkhart.
						Steeg, Henry C., Terre Haute.
						Steele, John E., Ellettsville.
						Steen, Frank L., Terre Haute.
						Stees, Homer L., Terre Haute.
						Stegmann, Ed. H., Newark, N. J.
						Stein, Theodore, Indianapolis.
						Steinhauer, G. E., New Albany.
						Steinhauer, Michael, Indianapolis.
						Stemen, C. B., Fort Wayne.
						Stemen, Geo. C., Ft. Wayne.
						Stephan, William, Ft. Wayne.
						Stephens, Chas. M., Walkerton.
						Stephenson, R. C., Rochester.
						Sterne, John B., Evansville.
						Sterzik, Edward A., Edinburg.
						Stevens, A. W., Logansport.
						Stevens, Fred M., Kokomo.

						Stevens, Jno. S., Richmond, Va.
						Stevenson, C. B., Logansport.
						Stewart, Alexander M., Indianapolis.
						Stewart, David W., Muncie.
						Stewart, Edward S., Marion.
						Stewart, Garland R., Indianapolis.
						Stewart, Jonathan, Indianapolis.
						Stewart, Marion, Muncie.
						Stiles, Henry G., Indianapolis.
						Stilwell, Wm. F., 14º, Lafayette.
						Stimson, Chas. O., Lafayette.
						Stimson, Jacob V., Huntingburg.
						Stinson, Lewis D., Evansville.
						Stoddard, Samuel P., Indianapolis.
						Stoll, Henry, Jr., Fort Wayne.
						Stone, Charles S., Indianapolis.
						Stone, Thomas E., Lebanon.
						Stone, Thomas W., Evansville.
						Stoner, Elmer E., Greenfield.
						Stoner, James S., Noblesville.
						Storen, Mark, Scottsburg.
						Storer, Oliver W., Muncie.
						Stott, Edward G., Indianapolis.
						Stout, Edward E., Indianapolis.
						Stout, Horace A., 14º, Indianapolis.
						Stout, Thomas J., Edinburg.
						Stoy, William V., Lafayette.
						Strayer, Francis, Delphi.
						Street, L. Elwood, Brookston.
						Street, Richard W., Mich. City.
						Streeter, Harry W., Greenfield.
						Strickland, H. G., Greenfield.
						Strickland, Wm. T., Columbus.
						Stroup, Samuel P., Waldron.
						Strouse, David, Rockville.
						Strouse, Frank E., Rockville.
						Studer, Frank E., Ft. Wayne.
						Study, Justin N., Ft. Wayne.
						Sucese, Jay B., Lafayette.
						Sullivan, Thomas L., Indianapolis.
						Sunderland, Byron A., Indianapolis.
						Sunderland, Jos. E., Ft. Wayne.
						Sutton, Richard L., Peru.

						

						Suverkrup, John W., Columbus.
						Swain, Charles G., Richmond.
						Swain, Charles M., Noblesville.
						Swain, David F., 14º, Indianapolis.
						Swain, George H., Indianapolis.
						Swain, Thomas A., Indianapolis.
						Swan, Robert W., Anderson.
						Swank, Alvin G., Indianapolis.
						Swanson, Alexander, Geneva.
						Swart, Geo. W., Huntington.
						Swearingen, Larry L., Dunkirk.
						Sweet, Francis E., Indianapolis.
						Sweet, Samuel B., 33º, Indianapolis.
						Sweringer, B. V., Fort Wayne.
						Swick, Peter D., Roanoke.
						Swift, Thos. A., Evansville.
						Swindell, Chas. H., Plymouth.
						Switzer, Albert B., Peru.
						Swope, Sheldon, Terre Haute.
						Syfers, Rufus K., Indianapolis.
						Taggart, Daniel, Indianapolis.
						Taggart, Thomas, Indianapolis.
						Talmage, Chas. H., Indianapolis.
						Tarkington, Wm. S. R., Indianapolis.
						Taylor, Charles H., St. Joe, Mo.
						Taylor, Henry A., Lafayette.
						Taylor, James E., Richmond.
						Taylor, James H., Indianapolis.
						Taylor, Major, Indianapolis.
						Taylor, Walter S., Princeton.
						Taylor, Wm. L., Indianapolis.
						Teagarden, H. J., Garrett.
						Teagarden, Marion, Ft. Wayne.
						Teel, Adna A., Wausau, Wis.
						Temple, Orange W., Lafayette.
						Terry, Frank, Lafayette.
						Terry, Samuel P., Rochester.
						Teter, Hiram, Indianapolis.
						Thayer, E. P., Jr., Greenfield.
						Thayer, Geo. H., Jr., Plymouth.
						Thayer, Henry G., 33º, Plymouth.
						Thayer, James W., Plymouth.
						Theime, August F., Lafayette.

						Theime, Ernest, Boswell.
						Thomas, Joshua E., Scottsburg.
						Thomas, John W. F., Delphi.
						Thomas, Seth E., Indianapolis.
						Thompson, David J., Rensselaer.
						Thompson, Frank B., Lafayette.
						Thompson, James A., Anderson.
						Thompson, J. A., 33º, Edinburg.
						Thompson, John F., New Castle.
						Thompson, R. G., Fort Wayne.
						Thompson, Samuel C., Edinburg.
						Thompson, Wm. T., Edinburg.
						Thomson, Alex. W., Indianapolis.
						Thornton, Julius B., Indianapolis.
						Thornton, Wm. W., Indianapolis.
						Thrall, Frank R., Muncie.
						Threlkeld, William, Edinburg.
						Thurber, Wm. E., Chicago, Ill.
						Tillo, Charles D., Ft. Wayne.
						Tillotson, Alvin G., Mich. City.
						Tilton, William H., San Pierre.
						Timewell, Chas. A., New York.
						Tindolph, Edw. F., Cincinnati.
						Titus, Chas. H., Ft. Wayne.
						Todd, Levi L., Indianapolis.
						Todd, Warner W., Ft. Wayne.
						Tomlin, William S., Indianapolis.
						Tomlinson, James M., Indianapolis.
						Townsley, Charles D., Bedford.
						Townsend, Elmer E., Indianapolis.
						Townsend, Dick, Decatur.
						Townsend, Samuel A., Indianapolis,
						Travis, Chas. M., Pittsburg, Pa.
						Treat, Atwater J., Indianapolis.
						Trick, Henry F., Logansport.
						Tripp, Albert A., North Vernon.
						Tripp, Ernest H., Indianapolis.
						Trips, Peter, Lebanon.
						Trotter, Joseph A., Columbus.
						Trout, Wm. M., Maquaketa, Ia.
						Truitt, Roland S., Noblesville.
						Trueblood, John O., Kokomo.
						Truman, Law. L., Logansport.


						

						Tuck, Richard W., Indianapolis.
						Tucker, Henry, Logansport.
						Turner, Geo. A., Indianapolis.
						Turner, Geo. H., Vincennes.
						Turner, Harry S., Martinsville.
						Turner, Jay L., Muncie.
						Turpen, William V., Marion.
						Tutewiler, Charles W., Indianapolis.
						Tutewiler, Henry D., Indianapolis.
						Tutewiler, Henry W., Indianapolis.
						Tuthill, Harry B., Mich. City.
						Tuttle, Herman C., Indianapolis.
						Tyndall, Robert H., Indianapolis.
						Tweed, Charles E., Indianapolis.
						Twiname, James E., Indianapolis.
						Twiname, John J., Indianapolis.
						Unthank, J. Addison, Spiceland
						Urmston, E. Littell, Kentland.
						Vallette, William O., Goshen.
						Van Camp, Ray P., Indianapolis.
						Van Camp, Samuel G., Indianapolis.
						Van Petten, Sol. L., Anderson.
						Van Valzah, R. W., Terre Haute
						Vesey, Wm. J., Ft. Wayne.
						Vette, Victor C., Vincennes.
						Vickory, Jos. C., Bloomingdale
						Vinson, Frank J., Indianapolis.
						Von Phul, George V., Greensburg.
						Vordermark, J. W., Ft. Wayne.
						Voris, Joseph R., Bedford.
						Vail, Isaac N., New Carlisle.
						Vail, Walter, 33º, Michigan City
						Van Tilburgh, John B., Indianapolis.
						Wade, Frank P., Indianapolis.
						Wade, Ohio L., Indianapolis.
						Wagner, John L., Terre Haute.
						Wagner, Theo. A., Indianapolis.
						Wagoner, Chas. E., Logansport
						Wainwright, Lucius M., Indianapolis.
						Walk, Carl F., Indianapolis.
						Walk, Julius C., Indianapolis.
						Walker, H. H., Burlington, Vt
						Walker, Wm. A., Indianapolis.

						Walker, Wm. S., Lafayette.
						Wallace, Adam, Lafayette.
						Wallace, David, Indianapolis.
						Wallace, Henry L., Indianapolis.
						Wallace, Harry R., Indianapolis.
						Wallace, Jas. B., Lafayette.
						Wallace, Jas. B., Terre Haute.
						Wallick, John F., 14º, Indianapolis.
						Walter, Amos R., Wabash.
						Walter, Boswell, Wabash.
						Walter, Charles A., Indianapolis.
						Walter, Harry H., Ft. Wayne.
						Walters, Daniel, Richmond.
						Wampler, Asakel H., Gosport.
						Wands, James W., Indianapolis.
						Wappenhans, C. F. R., Indianapolis.
						Ward, Ora F., Richmond.
						Ward, Thomas L., Winchester.
						Waring, Lawrence C., Bluffton.
						Warner, Charles T., Indianapolis.
						Warner, Edward W., Indianapolis.
						Warner, John H., Indianapolis.
						Warner, Samuel A., Edinburg.
						Warner, Wm. E., Chicago, Ill.
						Warren, John C., Terre Haute.
						Warrick, Jas. W., Williamsport.
						Washburn, W. W., N. Richmond.
						Watson, Robert G., Danville, Ill.
						Watt, Anthony, Connersville.
						Watts, James M.,—.
						Wayman, Frank L., New Castle.
						Weakly, Edward C., Thorntown.
						Weathers, J. H., New Albany.
						Webb, Alfred L., Webb City, Mo.
						Webb, Charles P., Indianapolis.
						Webb, David R., Edinburg.
						Webb, Isaiah D., Warsaw.
						Webb, William, Indianapolis.
						Webber, Irvin B., Warsaw.
						Webber, William H., Wabash.
						Weber, Charles E., Indianapolis.
						Wefler, Jacob E., Indianapolis.
						Weinberger, Herman, Indianapolis.

						

						Weller, Harry D., Indianapolis.
						Wellington, James, Anderson.
						Wells, Nathaniel C., Edinburg.
						Wells, Samuel R., Greenfield.
						Werner, Leopold A., Indianapolis.
						Weston, H. C., New Richmond.
						Wetherill, Rich. B., Lafayette.
						Wheat, James C., 14º, Indianapolis.
						Whedon, Wm. F., Madison.
						Wheelock, Wm. B., Indianapolis.
						Whery, Wm. P., Ft. Wayne.
						White, Ahira R., 33º, Indianapolis.
						White, Charles A., Danville.
						White, Charles N., Elkhart.
						White, Henry C., Edinburg.
						White, Hiram, Chicago, Ill.
						White, R. Parks, Warsaw.
						Whitsen, Courtney B., Indianapolis.
						Whiteley, Burt H., Muncie.
						Whitcomb, Charles, Terre Haute.
						Whitmer, Harry R., Goshen.
						Whitney, Albert E., Joplin, Mo.
						Whitney, Wallace P., Veedersberg.
						Whitsett, Charles T., Indianapolis.
						Whitsett, Robt. B., Logansport.
						Whitted, Frank A., Cicero.
						Wickard, Willard S., Indianapolis.
						Wickwire, Thomas S., Ashley.
						Widaman, John D., Warsaw.
						Wild, John F., Indianapolis.
						Wild, Leonard G., Anderson.
						Wild, Leonard, Noblesville.
						Wildhack, Wm. A., Indianapolis.
						Wilding, Chas. A., Ft. Wayne.
						Wiles, Frank M., Indianapolis.
						Wiley, Frederick H., Indianapolis.
						Wiley, Friend F., Greenwood.
						Wiley, Ulric Z., Fowler.
						Wilcox, Harry E., Lapel.
						Wilcox, Horace G., Lapel.
						Wilcox, John T., Lapel.
						Wilcox, Russell A., Lapel.
						Wilhelm, John A., Seymour.

						Willard, Albert L., Indianapolis.
						Williams, Chas. N., Indianapolis.
						Williams, Edwin L., Indianapolis.
						Williams, Frank E., Wabash.
						Williams, George R., Richmond.
						Williams, H. M., Noblesville.
						Williams, J. B., Cleveland, Ohio.
						Williams, James R., Indianapolis.
						Williams, James S., Stinesville.
						Williams, John G., Indianapolis.
						Williams, Oliver W., Indianapolis.
						Williamson, O. C., 14º, Indianapolis.
						Willoughby, A. M., Vincennes.
						Willoughby, B. M., Vincennes.
						Wills, Marshall F., Indianapolis.
						Wilson, Frank, Indianapolis.
						Wilson, Frank W., Philadelphia, Pa.
						Wilson, George S., Indianapolis.
						Wilson, Geo. W., Ft. Wayne.
						Wilson, James F., Indianapolis.
						Wilson, John M., Richmond.
						Wilson, J. Russell, Indianapolis.
						Wilson, John R., Indianapolis.
						Wilson, J. Wood, Marion.
						Wilson, Joseph, Washington.
						Wilson, Medford B., Indianapolis.
						Wilt, Frank P., Ft. Wayne.
						Wing, John F., Ft. Wayne.
						Winter, G. G., Shelbyville.
						Winterberg, Aug. W., Edinburg.
						Winterberg, Francis, Edinburg.
						Winters, Frederick H., Indianapolis.
						Winters, James M., Indianapolis.
						Winton, Chas. F., Washington.
						Wirt, Garry B., Wabash.
						Wirt, William N., Rockville.
						Wishard, Albert W., Indianapolis.
						Wishard, Wm. N., Indianapolis.
						Wishart, Thomas, Lafayette.
						Wocher, Adolph G., Indianapolis.
						Wocher, Charles A., Indianapolis.
						Wocher, John, Indianapolis.
						Wocher, William F., Indianapolis.

						

						Wolcott, Frank E., Indianapolis.
						Wolfe, Edward H., Rushville.
						Wood, Augustus, Hobart.
						Wood, Charles A., Muncie.
						Wood, George C., Windfall.
						Wood, Frank W., Indianapolis.
						Wood, Horace F., Indianapolis.
						Wood, Julius C., 33º, Muncie.
						Wood, J. Frank, Saginaw, Mich.
						Wood, Israel O., Goshen.
						Wood, Melville, Muncie.
						Wood, Paul E., Ft. Wayne.
						Wood, Robert C., Franklin.
						Woodford, Geo. A., Indianapolis.
						Woodman, A. C., Philadelphia,Pa
						Woodhurst, Theo R., Richmond.
						Woods, Ford, Indianapolis.
						Woods, Homer A., Indianapolis.
						Woods, Robt. A., 33º, Princeton.
						Woodward, Sheldon W., Indianapolis.
						Woolaver, Harry, Chicago, Ill.
						Wooley, Wm. J., Anderson.
						Worden, Charles M., Peru.
						Worley, Oliver P., Lebanon.
						Worrall, Cal. R., Bloomington.
						Wortz, Christian H., Frankfort.
						Wright, Charles E., Indianapolis.
						Wright, Wm. L., 14º, Washington.

						Wright, Wm. M., Indianapolis.
						Wyman, Albert H., Huntington.
						Wymond, Randall J., Aurora.
						Wynne, Thomas A., Indianapolis.
						Yarnelle, William R., Wabash.
						Yinger, Marion E., Garrett.
						Yoke, Charles, Bridgeport.
						Yoke, Nelson, Indianapolis.
						Young, Andrew G., Chicago, Ill.
						Young, Arch. A., Indianapolis.
						Yount, Frank H., Indianapolis.
						Yount, Thos. J., Indianapolis.
						Zeigler, Henry C., Montpelier.
						Zese, Herman, Michigan City.
						Zickendrath, F. W., Greensburg.
						Ziegel, Edward F., Indianapolis.
						Zigrosser, H. A., Luttenburg, Aus.
						Zimmer, Harry E., 14º, Indianapolis.
						Zimmerman, Arthur H., Brazil.
						Zimmerman, Charles L., Indianapolis.
						Zimmerman, Horace, Bridgeport.
						Zimmerman, J. C., Ligonier.
						Zinn, Robert E., Indianapolis.
						Zion, Charles M., Lebanon.
						Zollars, Allen, Ft. Wayne.
						Zook, Jacob, Elkhart.
						Zumpfe, Emil, Indianapolis.
						Zwickel, Adam, Anderson.
					
					Total membership—2460.



					

					
						MEMBERS OF MURAT TEMPLE. JANUARY 1, 1902.

						Abbett, Chas. H., Indianapolis.
						Ackerman, August C., Lafayette.
						Adam, Charles H., Indianapolis.
						Adams, Bert B., Indianapolis.
						Adams, Curtis W., Bloomfield.
						Adams, Henry C., Indianapolis.
						Adams, Henry C., Jr., Indianapolis.
						Adams, Justus C., Indianapolis.
						Adams, Thad S., Danville.
						Ader, Henry, Somerset.
						Aikens, Bronte M., Indianapolis.
						Aikman, Wm. M., Washington.
						Ainsworth, Frank B., Indianapolis.
						Albanus, Geo., Wabash.
						Alber, John, Logansport.
						Aldrich, James F., Indianapolis.
						Alexander, Robert P., Indianapolis.
						Allen, F. M., Washington C. H., O
						Allen, Granville G., Indianapolis.
						Allen, Oliver M., Indianapolis.
						Albright, John H., Indianapolis.
						Alden, Samuel R., Ft. Wayne.
						Aldrich, Joshua H., Indianapolis.
						Allison, James A., Indianapolis.
						Allison, Robert B., Decatur.
						Alstadter, Albert, Huntington.
						Almond, Enos A., Indianapolis.
						Anderson, Eli W., Indianapolis.
						Andress, Edgar H., Lafayette.
						Aneshaensel, Charles, Indianapolis.
						Appel, D. Fred, Boston, Mass.
						Appel, John J., Indianapolis.
						Armstrong, Edwin J., Indianapolis.

						Armstrong, Jas. A., Ft. Wayne.
						Armstrong, Seigel M., Indianapolis.
						Arthur, James A., Goshen.
						Atwell, W. J., W. Superior, Wis.
						Atwood, J. G. B., Albion.
						Austin, Charles S., Indianapolis.
						Baker, Jeremiah, Garrett.
						Bailey, A., Crawfordsville.
						Bailey, George T., Muncie.
						Balch, Charles, Terre Haute.
						Ball, Edmund B., Muncie.
						Ball, Fred C., Muncie.
						Bannister, Oscar B., Muncie.
						Bardsley, James, Corbin, Ky.
						Barnett, A. G., Fort Wayne.
						Barnett, Charles L., Indianapolis.
						Barrett, James M., Ft. Wayne.
						.Barrows, Edward W., Indianapolis.
						Barrows, Wm. F., Indianapolis.
						Bash, John M., Warsaw.
						Bass, John H., Ft. Wayne.
						Bassett, Edward W., Indianapolis.
						Bates, Hervey, Jr., Indianapolis.
						Batson, John A., Reynolds.
						Bauchert, Mahlon F., Noblesville.
						Bauer, Jacob M., Lawrenceburg.
						Bauer, John J., Fort Wayne.
						Baur, Charles, South Bend.
						Baur, Harry C., Indianapolis.
						Beacham, James H., Indianapolis.
						Beatty, J. M., Dunkirk.
						Beauchamp, W. T., Terre Haute.
						Bechtel, John A., Kokomo.


						

						Beck, Eman L., Franklin.
						Becker, Charles, Indianapolis.
						Becker, Jacob, Jr., Indianapolis.
						Beers, George W., Ft. Wayne.
						Belcher, Thomas W. S., Indianapolis.
						Bell, Alfred, Vincennes.
						Bell, Benj. F., Bellevue, O.
						Bell, John E., Cannelton.
						Bellinger, Frank P., Lafayette.
						Belott, George E., Ft. Wayne.
						Bender, Conrad, Indianapolis.
						Benepe, John L., Indianapolis.
						Bennett, Beecher W., Marion.
						Bennett, Byron H., Ft. Wayne.
						Bennett, Theodore, Indianapolis.
						Bennette, N. C., Louisville, Ky.
						Benson, Samuel T., Kokomo.
						Bernloehr, Christopher, Indianapolis.
						Bertermann, Wm. G., Indianapolis.
						Beshore, H. A., Marion.
						Billings, George M., Irvington.
						Billingsley, Denton F., Indianapolis.
						Bir, Edward M., New Albany.
						Birk, Harry A., Indianapolis.
						Birk, Martin J., Jr., Indianapolis.
						Birk, William M., Indianapolis.
						Bitner, Edward E., Terre Haute.
						Blair, Jesse H., Denver, Colo.
						Blake, Geo. E., Greencastle.
						Bliss, George W., Indianapolis.
						Blitz, Max J., Ft. Wayne.
						Blue, Van Colvin, Flora.
						Bogue, Oliver H., Wabash.
						Boice, A. C., Los Angeles, Cal.
						Boldt, Chas. F. W., Muncie.
						Boltz, Ferd F., Bluffton.
						Bond, Charles E., Ft. Wayne.
						Booz, Edward G., Indianapolis.
						Booz, John J., Indianapolis.
						Bowen, Edward W., Delphi.
						Bowman, Wm. H., Edinburg.
						Bowman, Wm. W., Indianapolis.
						Bowers, Frank, Indianapolis.

						Boyd, Bert A., Indianapolis.
						Boyd, Frank P., Alexandria.
						Bracken, James S., Dunkirk.
						Bradley, Nelson, Greenfield.
						Bradshaw, T. E., Thorntown.
						Bragg, Walter O., Greenfield.
						Brant, C. P., Indianapolis.
						Breed, Richard E., Marion.
						Breeding, John M., Edinburg.
						Brevoort, Charles P., Marion.
						Brewer, Harvey, Greenwood.
						Brickley, Eugene T., Anderson.
						Briggs, Herman W., Attica.
						Briggs, Leonard S., Terre Haute.
						Brigham, A. C., Boston, Mass.
						Britton, Robert M. H:, Brazil.
						Bronson, John L., Lafayette.
						Browder, Cornelius D., Indianapolis.
						Browder, Wilbur F., Indianapolis.
						Brown, Arthur V., Indianapolis.
						Brown, Austin H., Indianapolis.
						Brown, Edward F., Ogden, Utah.
						Brown, Chalmers, Indianapolis.
						Brown, Charles A., Indianapolis.
						Brown, Fred W., Clayton.
						Brown, Hiram, Indianapolis.
						Brown, Isaac H., Covington, Ky.
						Brown, John G., Lafayette.
						Brown, Robert A., Indianapolis.
						Brown, Vallorous, Churubusco.
						Brown, Wm. E., Pendleton.
						Brown, William L., Washington.
						Brownlee, Hiram, Marion.
						Brush, George E., Indianapolis.
						Brush, John T., Indianapolis.
						Buchanan, Wallace, Indianapolis.
						Buck, Benjamin F., Indianapolis.
						Buck, Harry M., Waukesha, Wis.
						Burdsal, Alfred, Indianapolis.
						Burford, Wm. B., Indianapolis.
						Burger, Charles B., Indianapolis.
						Burk, Wm. C., Thorntown.

						

						Burk, William E., Logansport.
						Burke, William H., Indianapolis.
						Burt, Thomas W., Lafayette.
						Burrell, Hugh A., Brownstown.
						Buschmann, Charles L., Indianapolis.
						Buschmann, George H., Indianapolis.
						Buschmann, Harry C., Indianapolis.
						Bush, Calvin W., -Indianapolis.
						Bush, W. C., Michigan City.
						Buskirk, L. V., Bloomington.
						Butler, Mahlon D., Indianapolis.
						Butterworth, F. W., Indianapolis.
						Button, Canada, Zionsville.
						Bye, Benjamin F., Indianapolis.
						Byers, John E., Hazelrigg.
						Bynum, Wm. D., Indianapolis.
						Caldwell, Arthur B., Indianapolis.
						Caldwell, Charles C., Indianapolis.
						Caldwell, George W., Columbus.
						Calloway, Henry C., Elwood.
						Cameron, Joseph B., Indianapolis.
						Cammack, David, Muncie.
						Campbell, C. E., Clark's Hill.
						Campbell, Eddy M., Indianapolis.
						Canine, Hal. P., Indianapolis.
						Carey, Samuel C., Indianapolis.
						Carnahan, James R., Indianapolis.
						Carter, David B., Frankfort.
						Carter, B. Frank, Peru.
						Carter, George H., Indianapolis.
						Cary, Frank M., Lafayette.
						Case, Robison M., Indianapolis.
						Cavanagh, Jos. R., Indianapolis.
						Caylor, George H., Noblesville.
						Caylor, Rayton G., Noblesville.
						Chambers, P. L., New York, N. Y
						Chambers, Smiley N., Indianapolis.
						Chandlee, Webster, Richmond.
						Chandler, Geo. M., Batavia, Ill.
						Chapin, Henry D., Richmond.
						Chapler, Martin L., Wabash.
						Chapman, Edward K., Indianapolis.
						Chapman, Ira A., Waldron.

						Chapman, James P., Rome City.
						Charlton, Thomas J., Plainfield.
						Charni, J. L., Crawfordsville.
						Charnley, William H., Goshen.
						Chilson, Grant E., Fort Wayne.
						Christian, H. E., Indianapolis.
						Christian, Thomas J., Indianapolis.
						Church, Edward J., Laporte.
						Clancey, Leslie D., Indianapolis.
						Clapp, William F., Indianapolis.
						Clark, Chauncey H., Indianapolis.
						Clark, Cyrus J., Indianapolis.
						Clark, Edmund D., Indianapolis.
						Clark, Ernest A., Lowell.
						Clark, Jacob W., Fort Wayne.
						Clarke, Edward G., Marion.
						Cleary, John W., Indianapolis.
						Cleaver, Frank C., Princeton.
						Clements, Jas. M., Paducah, Ky.
						Clements, R. W., Paducah, Ky.
						Cleveland, John M., Indianapolis.
						Cline, Lewis C., Indianapolis.
						Clifford, Wm. L., Indianapolis.
						Clugston, A. R., Columbia City.
						Clugston, D. B., Columbia City.
						Coats, Wm. F., Columbus.
						Coate, M. W., Marion.
						Cobb, Arthur W., Indianapolis.
						Cochran, William M., Indianapolis.
						Cockie, John, Lafayette.
						Cockrum, John B., Indianapolis.
						Coffin, John R., Terre Haute.
						Colborn, A. R., Michigan City.
						Colborn, John A., Oxford.
						Coldwell, Horace G., Indianapolis.
						Cole, Cyril B., Seymour.
						Cole, Cyrus W., Michigan City.
						Collyer, Frank A., Washington.
						Combs, George W., Indianapolis.
						Compton, Samuel H., Indianapolis.
						Conde, Henry T., Indianapolis.
						Conduitt, Allen W., Indianapolis.
						Conklin, Frank G., South Bend.

						

						Conlen, John A., Indianapolis.
						Conrey, Jacob A., Shelbyville.
						Cooley, Samuel M., Indianapolis.
						Cook, E. W., Ft. Wayne.
						Cook, Thomas V., Indianapolis.
						Cooper, Daniel B., Helena, Mont.
						Cooper, Eugene A., Indianapolis.
						Cooper, George H., Greenfield.
						Cooper, Lew W., Indianapolis.
						Copenhaver, Henry L., Garrett.
						Courtier, George S., Wabash.
						Cowan, Ross H., Muncie.
						Cowgill, Cary E., Wabash.
						Cox, Edward E., Hartford City.
						Cox, John S., Edinburg.
						Cox, John W., Olio.
						Craig, Harry J., Indianapolis.
						Craig, William B., Indianapolis.
						Craig, William R., Indianapolis.
						Craven, J. M., Madison.
						Crawford, Alex. L., Terre Haute.
						Crawford, Edward M., Indianapolis.
						Cressler, Alfred D., Ft. Wayne.
						Crimmins, John C., Indianapolis.
						Crockett, Ren W., Delphi.
						Crosley, Charles S., Indianapolis.
						Cross, Charles M., Indianapolis.
						Crouse, Henry M., Knightstown.
						Cruft, John W., Terre Haute.
						Crumpton, John H., Indianapolis.
						Cruse, James S., Indianapolis.
						Cruson, Charles W., Scottsburg.
						Cubberly, Louis, Marion.
						Culbert, Uriah, Michigan City.
						Cullen, Robert P., New Albany.
						Culver, Harry B., Indianapolis.
						Cumback, Will, Jr., Greensburg.
						Cunningham, W. R., Frankfort.
						Curtis, Cassius C., Noblesville.
						Curtis, Joshua W., Warsaw.
						Curtner, John M., Wabash.
						Curryer, William F., Indianapolis.
						Cutter, A. H., Covington, Ky.

						Dailey, Oscar H., Kokomo.
						Daller, Albert, Indianapolis.
						Daller, Edward C., Foster.
						Daly, Charles F., Indianapolis.
						Danes, William S., Peru.
						Darby, Orange V., Kokomo.
						Davenport, Frank B., Indianapolis.
						Davis, Charles L., Sullivan.
						Davis, Daniel H., Knightsville.
						Davis, Frank M., Scottsburgh.
						Davis, Gilbert W., Fargo, N. D.
						Davis, John L., Crawfordsville.
						Davis, Newton C., Indianapolis.
						Davis, Theo. P., Noblesville.
						Davis, William C., Indianapolis.
						Defrees, Thos. M., Indianapolis.
						Deitz, Emil, Indianapolis.
						Dennert, Louis A., Elkhart.
						Denny, Harry W., Indianapolis.
						DePuy, Frank, Wabash.
						Deutsch, Albert, Oakland City.
						DeVay, William P., Indianapolis.
						Dick, Jacob E., Attica.
						Dickson, Fred C., Indianapolis.
						Dickson, George A., Indianapolis.
						Dickson, John T., Indianapolis.
						Dilks, John H., Indianapolis.
						Dissette, James I., Indianapolis.
						Dithmer, Henry L., Indianapolis.
						Donaldson, Wm. H., Indianapolis.
						Donivan, John W., Ft. Wayne.
						Doud, William E., Ft. Wayne.
						Dougall, John T., Ft. Wayne.
						Douglass, Samuel L., Indianapolis.
						Douglas, Robert F., Ft. Wayne.
						Downey, Brandt C., Indianapolis.
						Downing, Charles, Greenfield.
						Drake, Lester, Columbus.
						Drew, Lucius W., Indianapolis.
						Dryer, James W., Indianapolis.
						Duncan, Frank B., Princeton.
						Dunkle, Frank, Linden.
						Dutton, Robert L., Indianapolis.

						

						Dyer, John W., Hammond.
						Dynes, Walton L., Indianapolis.
						Early, Jacob D., Terre Haute.
						Eastburn, David J., Indianapolis.
						Eastman, Joseph, Indianapolis.
						Eastman, Thomas B., Indianapolis.
						Eckert, D. S., Ft. Wayne.
						Egbert, Haines, Goshen.
						Egbert, John W., Goshen.
						Elkins, John A., Indianapolis.
						Elliott, Byron K., Indianapolis.
						Elliott, Cassius E., Sheridan.
						Elliott, Ernest M., Indianapolis.
						Elliott, Nathan K., Columbus, O.
						Elliott, Robert, Indianapolis.
						Ellis, William L., Quincy, Ill.
						Ells, John C., Dayton, O.
						Ely, Walter C., Marion.
						Emrich, Ed. E., Pittsburg, Kan.
						English, William E., Indianapolis.
						Epps, Harry G., Indianapolis.
						Evans, George P., Ft. Wayne.
						Evans, Oscar, Chattanooga, Tenn.
						Ewing, Geo. W., Baltimore, Md.
						Fahnestock, Aug. A., Laporte.
						Fahnestock, C. S., Laporte.
						Farmer, Edwin G., Indianapolis.
						Farrell, John S., Indianapolis.
						Farrington, G. E., Terre Haute.
						Fatout, Ansel, Indianapolis.
						Fatout, Arthur, Indianapolis.
						Fatout, Hervey B., Indianapolis.
						Faul, Henry, Evansville.
						Faulknor, J. B., Michigan City.
						Finch, Clifford P., Rockford, Ill.
						Finch, H., Milwaukee, Wis.
						Fish, James L., Indianapolis.
						Fisher, Bem E., Chicago, Ill.
						Fisher, Clifford C., Union City.
						Fisher, F. M., Battle Creek,Mich.
						Fisher, Geo. C., Indianapolis.
						Fisher, Homer, Orleans.
						Fister, George H., Elkhart.

						Fitch, Alexander P., Lebanon.
						Fitch, Charles B., Ft. Wayne.
						Fitzgerald, Frank N., Indianapolis.
						Fletcher, Jesse, Indianapolis.
						Fletcher, Samuel H., Indianapolis.
						Fletcher, William T., Indianapolis.
						Flynn, David H., Lafayette.
						Flynn, William, Marion.
						Folger, John W., Indianapolis.
						Fontaine, Thomas P., Indianapolis.
						Foor, William, Indianapolis.
						Ford, Charles A., Kokomo.
						Forbis, Milton H., Muncie.
						Forelander, A. D., Noblesville.
						Forgy, D. J., New Waverly.
						Foulks, Hiram J., Vincennes.
						Fowler, Lew W., Wabash.
						Fowler, Wm., Wabash.
						Francis, J. Richard, Indianapolis.
						Frank, Frederick W., Indianapolis.
						Frank, Robert H., Marion.
						Franklin, Carl P., Muncie.
						Franklin, Cary, Muncie.
						Frederick, William J., Garrett.
						Fredrickson, William, LaPorte.
						Freeman, Job, Linton.
						Freeman, Wm. W., Columbus, O.
						Fritch, Jonas D., Frankfort.
						Froeb, Emil, Terre Haute.
						Fulk, Albert A., South Bend.
						Fuller, Jos. A., Hancock, Mich.
						Fulwell, George, Indianapolis.
						Furgason, Charles H., Indianapolis.
						Gable, Harry A., Marion.
						Gagg, George A., Terre Haute.
						Gall, Albert, Indianapolis.
						Ganter, Leo S., Muncie.
						Gard, Obed C., Young America.
						Gard, Oliver, Frankfort.
						Gardner, Fred C., Indianapolis.
						Garaghty, Jos. H., Chicago, Ill.
						Garrison, William C., Indianapolis.
						Garwood, Don A., Auburn.

						
						Gaskill, Newton J., Frankfort.
						Gates, Alfred B., Indianapolis.
						Gates, Arthur D., Indianapolis.
						Gates, Frank L., Indianapolis.
						Gates, Frederick E., Indianapolis.
						Gates, H. H., Indianapolis.
						Gates, Wm. F., Montpelier.
						Gausepohl, Edward J., Indianapolis.
						Gavin, Frank E., Indianapolis.
						Gay, George A., Indianapolis.
						Geake, William, Ft. Wayne.
						George, Otho G., Indianapolis.
						Gerard, Wesley M., Indianapolis.
						Gentry, W. W., Bloomington.
						Gilliland, Elmer E., Indianapolis.
						Gilmore, Charles C., Indianapolis.
						Gilbert, Newton W., Angola.
						Gilchrist, H. M., Noblesville.
						Gladding, Nelson A., Indianapolis.
						Glanton, James A., Columbus.
						Glass, Frederick, Madison.
						Glenn, John S., Huntington.
						Glossbrenner, A. M., Indianapolis.
						Godfrey, George L., Ft. Wayne.
						Goetz, Philip, Indianapolis.
						Goheen, Frank H., Indianapolis.
						Golden, E. J., Indianapolis.
						Goldsmith, Fred C., Terre Haute.
						Goodall, Walter J., Indianapolis.
						Goodloe, Thornton M., Indianapolis.
						Goodnow, Edgar B., Logansport
						Goodwin, Thomas A., Warsaw.
						Goodwine, F., Williamsport.
						Gordon, William H., Indianapolis.
						Gorter, Peter, Evansville.
						Goth, Herman A., Indianapolis.
						Gould, Emmet A., Peru.
						Grace, Edward H., Logansport.
						Graf, Adam, Logansport.
						Graham, Harry J., Chicago, Ill
						Graham, J. F., Marion.
						Granus, Edward W., Indianapolis.
						Graves, Edward M., Indianapolis.

						Graves, Geo. H., Indianapolis.
						Graves, Richard E., Evansville.
						Gray, John H., Indianapolis.
						Gregory, Augustus C., Decatur.
						Gregory, Fred A., Indianapolis.
						Greenawalt, G. L., Ft. Wayne.
						Greene, F. C., New Albany.
						Greenlee, Cassius M., Elwood.
						Griffin, Cassius C., Hammond.
						Griffin, Charles F., Hammond.
						Griffin, Frank P., Bourbon.
						Griffith, St. Clair, Indianapolis.
						Griffith, William G., Indianapolis.
						Grout, William H., Ft. Wayne.
						Gruber, Joseph L., Ft. Wayne.
						Gunther, Charles W., Indianapolis.
						Guynn, Lincoln, Wabash.
						Habich, Gustave, Indianapolis.
						Hacker, Thomas S., Indianapolis.
						Haffner, James E., Muncie.
						Hagen, Andrew, Indianapolis.
						Hahn, Abner B., Richmond.
						Halderman, Charles W., Marion.
						Halderman, Jacob, Chicago, Ill.
						Hall, Edward F., Danville.
						Hall, Henry H., Indianapolis.
						Hall, Lewis, Delphi.
						Hamilton, G. H., Thorntown.
						Hamilton, L. G., Lafayette.
						Hamilton, S., Springfield, Mass.
						. Hanch, Charles C., Indianapolis.
						Hargrove, R. C., Terre Haute.
						Harms, Chas. A., Indianapolis.
						Harper, James B., Ft. Wayne.
						Harrington, S. H., New York.
						Harris, C. A., Indianapolis.
						Harris, C. B., Nagasaki, Japan.
						Harris, Rolla, Indianapolis.
						Hart, Frank B., Detroit, Mich.
						Hart, John P., Indianapolis.
						Hart, Joseph E., Vevay.
						Hart, Milton T., Crown Point.
						Hatt, Perry, Hillsboro.


						

						Haueisen, William C., Indianapolis.
						Haugh, William C., Indianapolis.
						Hawkins, Edward, Indianapolis.
						Hawkins, Roscoe 0., Indianapolis.
						Harwood, George C., Marion.
						Haworth, M. C., Noblesville.
						Hayes, Joseph R., Indianapolis.
						Hays, Franklin W., Indianapolis.
						Haynes, Horace F., Indianapolis.
						Haywood, C., New Richmond.
						Haywood, Geo. P., Lafayette.
						Head, John W., Indianapolis.
						Headington, F. C., Albion, Mich.
						Hearsey, Henry T., Indianapolis.
						Hedge, W. B., Evansville.
						Hedgcock, James A., Frankfort.
						Heinl, John G., Terre Haute.
						Hendee, John C., Garrett.
						Henderson, H. M., Chicago, Ill.
						Henderson, John 0., Indianapolis.
						Henry, James H., Chicago, Ill.
						Henry, James M., Ft. Wayne.
						Henry, James R., Indianapolis.
						Henry, John C., South Whitley.
						Hernly, Charles S., New Castle.
						Herrman, Wm., Lafayette.
						Herrmann, George, Indianapolis.
						Hershman, Wm. H., New Albany.
						Hetzner, Cornelius N., Peru.
						Hiatt, N. W., Marion.
						Hickman, Charles W., Attica.
						Higginbotham, S., New Castle.
						Higgins, Wm. L., Indianapolis.
						Hill, Edgar N., Carthage.
						Hill, G. S., Indianapolis.
						Hill, Theodore H., Richmond.
						Hillman, S. J., Cincinnati, 0.
						Hindman, Walter M., Vincennes.
						Hinkle, Clarence L., Evansville.
						Hirt, Alfred, Greencastle.
						Hirzel, Daniel, Terre Haute.
						Hitchcock, Don K., Brimfield.
						Hoff, Charles W., Terre Haute.

						Hofman, Gustave M., Ft. Wayne.
						Hogin, William E., Marion.
						Hohl, Carl F., Indianapolis.
						Holliday, Frank T., Indianapolis.
						Holloway, Olin E., Knightstown.
						Holmes, Frank A., Attica.
						Holmes, H. F., Chattanooga, Tenn.
						Holtzman, John W., Indianapolis.
						Hooton, Isaac P., Lebanon.
						Hoover, Harry F., Indianapolis.
						Hopkins, Albert R., Rensselaer.
						Hopkins, Murat W., Indianapolis.
						Horsford, Wm. B., Mishawaka.
						Hough, Wm. A., Greenfield.
						Howard, Lewis L., Montpelier.
						Howe, M. S., Wabash.
						Howe, Richard M., Edinburg.
						Howell, Glenn E., Fairmount.
						Hudnut, Benj. G., Terre Haute.
						Hugg, Martin, Indianapolis.
						Hull, Granville H., Lafayette.
						Hume, Harry S., Evansville.
						Humphrey, David, Indianapolis.
						Humrichouser, H., Pierceton.
						Hunt, George E., Indianapolis.
						Hunter, Harry, Indianapolis.
						Hunter, Joseph A., Elwood.
						Huntington, John T., Indianapolis.
						Huntsinger, D. E., South Bend.
						Hurlbert, Charles E., Indianapolis.
						Hurlburt, Ralph L., Indianapolis.
						Huston, Frank, Montpelier.
						Huston, Henry A., Lafayette.
						Huston, James N., New York.
						Hutchins, Frank F., Richmond.
						Hutchinson, Charles L., Indianapolis.
						Hutchings, Wm., Bloomington.
						Ibach, Joseph G., Hammond.
						Ijams, William P., Terre Haute.
						Innis, William W., Milroy.
						Isbell, William C., Terre Haute.
						Isensee, Albert T., St. Louis,Mo.
						Isley, Jacob P., Attica.

						

						Izor, Albert, Indianapolis.
						Jackson, Dudley H., Indianapolis.
						Jackson, Lucius B., Lafayette.
						Jackson, Winfield E., Indianapolis.
						Jacobs, Duane D., Lafayette.
						Jacobs, James D., Indianapolis.
						Jacoby, Elias J., Indianapolis.
						Jameson, Henry, Indianapolis.
						Jameson, Ovid B., Indianapolis.
						Janes, Frank E., Indianapolis.
						Jeffries, William E., Indianapolis.
						Jenner, James W., New Albany.
						Jennings, George H., Templeton.
						Jennings, Max, Logansport.
						Jennings, W. D., New Castle.
						Johnson, Abbot L., Muncie.
						Johnson, Albert D., Indianapolis.
						Johnson, C., Philadelphia, Pa.
						Johnson, Eudorus M., Indianapolis.
						Johnson, E. H., Marion.
						Johnson, John E., Muncie.
						Johnson, J. Harry, Indianapolis.
						Johnson, J. R., Hartford City.
						Johnson, Richard O., Indianapolis.
						Johnston, R. F., Michigan City.
						Johnston, Samuel A., Indianapolis.
						Jones, C. C., Buffalo, N. Y.
						Jones, Herbert B., New Albany.
						Jones, John C., Noblesville.
						Jones, Maurice L., Ft. Wayne.
						Joss, Fred A., ,Indianapolis.
						Joy, John, Hobart.
						Julien, Taylor E., Salida, Colo.
						Jungclaus, William P., Indianapolis.
						Kaar, John, Kern City, Cal.
						Kahlo, Harry C., Indianapolis.
						Kamps, Frank G., Indianapolis.
						Kannal, Harvey J., Rensselaer.
						Keehn, Clarence H., Indianapolis.
						Karstetter, Wm. B., Indianapolis.
						Keller, August K., Indianapolis.
						Keller, Carl W., Logansport.


						Keller, C. Martin, Columbus.
						Keller, Emil F., Logansport.
						Keller, Frank H., Indianapolis.
						Keller, Robert, Indianapolis.
						Kelley, Eugene W., Muncie.
						Kendall, James R., Dayton, O.
						Kennington, Ralph E., Indianapolis.
						Kenyon, Clarence A., Indianapolis.
						Kercheval, Samuel E., Indianapolis.
						Kern, George S., Indianapolis.
						Kerr, Robert D., Ligonier.
						Kevers, Gustave W., Indianapolis.
						Keyser, George W., Indianapolis.
						Kiefer, Julius C., Martinsville.
						Kimball, Howard, Indianapolis.
						Kimball, Thomas C., Marion.
						King, Carlos C., Montezuma.
						King, Charles D., Lebanon.
						King, George B., Lafayette.
						Kinney, Horace E., Indianapolis.
						Kircher, Frank M., Garrett.
						Kirk, Charles C., Zanesville, O.
						Kirk, William A., Madison.
						Kirkhoff, John H., Indianapolis.
						Kirkpatrick, James B., Indianapolis.
						Klaussmann, Henry W., Indianapolis.
						Kleist, Charles H., Stinesville.
						Klingensmith, J. C., Montpelier.
						Knight, Charles S., Ft. Wayne.
						Knight, L. G., Montpelier.
						Knoefel, Chas. D., New Albany.
						Knox, James C., Ladoga.
						Koehne, Armin C., Indianapolis.
						Koeppen, William F., Marion.
						Kohler, Chas. F., Wabash.
						Kolsem, Jacob C., Terre Haute.
						Koss, Henry William, Indianapolis.
						Kotteman, Charles J., Indianapolis.
						Krauss, Charles, Indianapolis.
						Krauss, Fred C., Indianapolis.
						Krauss, Paul H., Indianapolis.
						Krauss, Paul H., Jr., Indianapolis.

						

						Kregelo, Charles E., Indianapolis.
						Kriel, Charles W., Indianapolis.
						Kuhn, August M., Indianapolis.
						Kuhn, Charles J., Indianapolis.
						Kuhne, Charles W., Ft. Wayne.
						Kyle, John J., Indianapolis.
						LaFollette, H. M., LaFollette,Ten
						Lalonde, J. A., Hammona.
						LaMont, Robert V., Ft. Wayne.
						Lancaster, Henry H., Lafayette.
						Lantz, James H., Garrett.
						Larimer, Joseph H., Peru.
						Larimore, James M., Greenfield.
						Lash, Fred, Jr., Hammond.
						Latchem, John B., Wabash.
						Lauer, Charles, Indianapolis.
						Laughlin, T. C., New Albany.
						Lee, Edwin M., Lawrenceburg.
						Lee, John W., St. Louis, Mo.
						Lee, Thomas B., Bourbon.
						Leedy, U. G., Indianapolis.
						Leftwitch, Edgar A., Indianapolis.
						Lemen, Oliver M., Indianapolis.
						Leonard, J. H., New York, N. Y.
						Leosch, George H., Ft. Wayne.
						Lesh, Charles P., Indianapolis.
						Lester, Durward B., Indianapolis.
						LeValley, Geo. W., Frankfort.
						Levering, Mortimer, Lafayette.
						Levey, Marshall T., Indianapolis.
						Levey, Louis H., Indianapolis.
						Lewis, E. R., Washington, D. C.
						Lewis, Frank W., Indianapolis.
						Lillard, Lewis C., Marion.
						Lilly Charles, Indianapolis.
						Lilly George, Anderson.
						Lilly, James W., Indianapolis.
						Linn, Thomas B. Indianapolis.
						Loehr, Edgar C., Noblesville.
						Logan, John R., Wabash.
						Long, John B., Indianapolis.
						Loomis, Fred M., Indianapolis.
						Lukenbill, Orestes C., Indianapolis.

						McBride, R. Wes, Indianapolis.
						McCabe, Charles M., Covington.
						McClamroch, A. A., Frankfort.
						McClamroch, James, Frankfort.
						McCleary, Hill T., Columbus, O.
						McClellan, M. L., Valparaiso.
						McConney, Norris J., Indianapolis.
						McCoy, Geo. W., Vincennes.
						McCoy, Thomas J., Rensselaer.
						McCray, Elmer E., Kendallville.
						McCready, Frank T., Indianapolis.
						McCready, John E., Indianapolis.
						McCulloch, John L., Marion.
						McCutcheon, John C., Indianapolis.
						McDaniel, Harry, Zionsville.
						McDonald, T. A., Shortsville, N.Y.
						McGee, Elbert B., Bloomington.
						McGuire, John H., Wabash.
						McKee, Thomas D., Montpelier.
						McKee, William J., Indianapolis.
						McKown, Frank E., Frankfort.
						McLallen, W. F., Columbia City.
						McMurray, Welcome B., Indianapolis.
						McNairy, Wm. F., Alexandria.
						McNaughton, Wm. A., Muncie.
						McShane, John T., Indianapolis.
						McVey, Hugh O'Neal, Indianapolis.
						McWorkman, Willard, Indianapolis.
						McDonald, Joseph H., Indianapolis.
						MacIntire, Charles T., Indianapolis.
						Macomber, H. H., Kendallville.
						Macy, Charles B., Noblesville.
						Maguire, Charles, Indianapolis.
						Mahurin, M. S., Fort Wayne.
						Maley, Henry, Edinburg.
						Mallett, George 0., Hammond.
						Mallory, Wm. H., Veedersburg.
						Malott, Charles G., Bedford.
						Malott, Charles M., Indianapolis.
						Malpas, Rolla M., Indianapolis.
						Malsberry, A. E., Thorntown.
						Mann, Edward H., New Albany.
						Mannfeld, William C., Indianapolis.


						

						Mansfield, Henry A., Indianapolis.
						Manson, M. F., Crawfordsville.
						Manson, Wm. L., New York, N. Y.
						Markley, G. W., Crawfordsville.
						Marks, Schuyler C., Lafayette.
						Marsh, Ephraim, Greenfield.
						Marshall, Richard S., Frankfort.
						Martin, C. N., Indianapolis.
						Martin, Henry D., Indianapolis.
						Martin, Joseph, Rosedale.
						Martin, Parks M., Spencer.
						Martin, William H., Bedford.
						Mather, William J., Indianapolis.
						Mathews, Oliver H., Warsaw.
						Matthews, Francis E., Bedford.
						Matthews, Fred, Ellettsville.
						Matthews, Oscar, Lafayette.
						Matthews, Wm. N., Bedford.
						Maxim, Josiah W., New Castle.
						Maxwell, Marvin R., Indianapolis.
						Maxwell, William E., Indianapolis.
						May, Willis T., Indianapolis.
						Mayfield, Frank F., Edinburg.
						Meader, Ira F., Chicago, Ill.
						Meeker, Charles A., Lafayette.
						Merrill, Chas. H., Lester, Ark.
						Merrill, Squire W., Fostoria, O.
						Messick, John F., Indianapolis.
						Metzner, Jasper, Ft. Wayne.
						Meyer, August B., Indianapolis.
						Meyer, Charles F., Indianapolis.
						Meyer, Edward H., Indianapolis.
						Meyer, George F., Indianapolis.
						Miesse, H., Grand Rapids, Mich.
						Miller, Charles W., Goshen.
						Miller, Edgar S., Indianapolis.
						Miller, Mont. L., Princeton.
						Millikan, Wm. W., Thorntown.
						Mills, W. Morton, Ladoga.
						Milnor, John E., Indianapolis.
						Miner, Willis R., Indianapolis.
						Minor, John W., Indianapolis.
						Minor, John W., Jr., Indianapolis.

						Mitchell, Darius C., Muncie.
						Mitchell, James H., Lafayette.
						Mitchell, Joseph A., Indianapolis.
						Mitchell, William S., Indianapolis.
						Mix, Melville W., Mishawaka.
						Modes, Charles H., Cicero.
						Moller, C. W. G., Indianapolis.
						Monyhan, Jonce, Orleans.
						Moore, Ambrose, Indianapolis.
						Moore, Edward D., Indianapolis.
						Moore, Edwin F., Indianapolis.
						Moore, Thaddeus S., Terre Haute.
						Moore, W. Scott, Indianapolis.
						Mordhurst, H. W., Fort Wayne.
						Mordough, C. C., Milwaukee,Wis.
						Morgan, Brown H., Clinton.
						Morgan, Thomas, Muncie.
						Morris, Joshua I., New Castle.
						Morris, Willard H., Frankfort.
						Morrison, James W., Frankfort.
						Morrison, Lewis E., Indianapolis.
						Morrison, Samuel L., Indianapolis.
						Morse, Robert P., Indianapolis.
						Morse, Thomas J., Indianapolis.
						Mossiman, Emanuel E., Bluffton.
						Mowrer, James M., Indianapolis.
						Mouch, Chas. W., New Castle.
						Moyer, Henry A., Kendallville.
						Mueller, Charles G., Indianapolis.
						Mueller, Gustave H., Indianapolis.
						Mulkins, Albert R., Edinburg.
						Mull, Cory, Indianapolis.
						Mull, Frank A., Manilla.
						Mull, George F., Indianapolis.
						Mull, Thomas K., Manilla.
						Munk, Herman, Connersville.
						Murphy, Augustus, Indianapolis.
						Murphy, Charles J., Brookston.
						Murphy, Thomas F., Richmond.
						Muzzy, Frank A., Indianapolis.
						Myer, John C., Terre Haute.
						Myers, David A., Greensburgh.
						Myers, Henry G., Indianapolis.


						

						Myers, N. H., Jeffersonville.
						Nagel, Eugene L., Terre Haute.
						Nebeker, Sewell A., Indianapolis.
						Neely, Ira A., Fairmount.
						Neely, Lon M., Muncie.
						Neipp, Christian, Terre Haute.
						Nelson, Fred H., Mineral Spgs.
						Nethery, Joseph W., Indianapolis.
						New, Harry S., Indianapolis.
						Newby, L. P., Knightstown.
						Newkirk, Geo., West Middleton.
						Niblack, Mason J., Vincennes.
						Nichols, A. S., Michigan City.
						Nichols, Smith T., Indianapolis.
						Nicholson, J. W., Richmond.
						Nickey,. Samuel M., Princeton.
						Nickey, William E., Princeton.
						Nickum, John R., Indianapolis.
						Niven, Richard E., Thorntown.
						Noble, William T., Indianapolis.
						Norris, Hiram, Indianapolis.
						North, Geo. W., Columbia City.
						Norton, Clinton S., Bedford.
						Norton, Frederick D., Bedford.
						Noyes, Daniel, LaPorte.
						Nugent, John R., Bedford.
						Nye, Charles F., Warsaw.
						Off, Albert H., Indianapolis.
						Off, William F., Indianapolis.
						Oglesbee, Rollo B., Muncie.
						Oliphant, Wm. A., Petersburg.
						Oliver, John H., Indianapolis.
						Orff, Charles E., Ft. Wayne.
						Oneal, Oren, Chicago, Ill.
						Orndorff, James H., Indianapolis.
						Overly, Elmer E., Indianapolis.
						Overman, Lindley M., Marion.
						Overstreet, Jesse, Indianapolis.
						Page, Thomas V., Indianapolis.
						Paine, William H., Indianapolis.
						Palmer, Victor C., Muncie.
						Park, Henry I., Kendallville.
						Parker, C. J. W., Indianapolis.

						Parry, David M., Indianapolis.
						Parry, Edward R., Indianapolis.
						Parry, St. Clair, Indianapolis.
						Parry, Thomas H., Indianapolis.
						Patterson, William O., Indianapolis.
						Patton, Philip B., Marion.
						Paul, Wm. M., Ft. Wayne.
						Paver, J. C., Indianapolis.
						Payne, Earl H., Rushville.
						Peabody, James B., LaFontaine.
						Pearce, Walter W., Rushville.
						Peake, Benjamin J., Indianapolis.
						Peake, James T., Indianapolis.
						Pearson, Charles D., Indianapolis.
						Pearson, John R., Indianapolis.
						Peelle, S. J., Washington, D. C.
						Pendleton Albert D., Indianapolis.
						Penrod, John N., Goshen.
						Perfect, James A., Angola.
						Perkins, Julien W., Indianapolis.
						Perrin, George W., Thorntown.
						Perrin, John O., Indianapolis.
						Perrin, John O., Lafayette.
						Perrin, VanBurin, Ft. Wayne.
						Perryman, W. E., Chicago, Ill.
						Peters, Will C., Goshen.
						Pettinger, George C., Indianapolis.
						Pfafflin, Henry A., Indianapolis.
						Pfafflin, Theodore, New York.
						Pfeffer, C. Edward, Indianapolis.
						Philbrick, Claude M., Garrett.
						Phythian, Robert L., Indianapolis.
						Pierce, C. H., Correctionville, Ia.
						Pierce, James E., Indianapolis.
						Pierce, Oliver W., Indianapolis.
						Pierson, Chiron C., Indianapolis.
						Pirkey, Jacob H., Indianapolis.
						Pixley, George W., Ft. Wayne.
						Plyley, Elmer C., Lafayette.
						Poague, Geo. W., Towner, N. D.
						Pond, Olen J., New Haven.
						Porter, John A., Indianapolis.
						Potter, Joseph L., Indianapolis.


						

						Potter, Samuel L., Muncie.
						Pottinger, John W., LaPorte.
						Powell, L. G. A., Wabash.
						Prass, Otto A., Lafayette.
						Prather, Austin B., Indianapolis.
						Prather, Calvin W., Indianapolis.
						Prescott, George H., Logansport.
						Price, William H., Clinton, Ia.
						Pritchard, Caleb A., Gosport.
						Prosser, Percy, Indianapolis.
						Pugh, Finley B., Indianapolis.
						Pullman, Bernard, Kendallville.
						Pulver, Edward F., Montpelier.
						Pyke, Albert D., Romney.
						Rader, Thomas B.; Jeffersonville.
						Raffensperger, Hiram C., Indianapolis.
						Raidy, Orville E., Terre Haute.
						Rainey, Harvey W., Indianapolis.
						Randall, Sumner K., Avilla.
						Randall, Theodore A., Indianapolis.
						Raschig, Maurice H., Indianapolis.
						Rassman, Emil C., Indianapolis.
						Ratcliff, Walter S., Richmond.
						Raub, Edward B., Indianapolis.
						Rauch, John, Indianapolis.
						Rea, Charles F., Madison.
						Redmond, John E., Logansport.
						Rees, Joseph H., Marion.
						Reeves, Girnie L., Columbus.
						Rehm, George H., Indianapolis.
						Reichart, John C., Castleton.
						Reiman, Ewald E., Terre Haute.
						Reinshagen, H. B., Indianapolis.
						Reiter, George, Ft. Wayne.
						Renick, Henry S., Greencastle.
						Reynolds, Frank F., Indianapolis.
						Rhode, John W., Hickman, Ill.
						Rice, Martin H., Indianapolis.
						Rich, William S., Indianapolis.
						Richardson, T. M., Irvington.
						Richason, Wm. N., Detroit, Mich.
						Richey, Webster S., Muncie.
						Richey, Weldon L., Indianapolis.

						Richie, Isaac N., Indianapolis.
						Rigdon, T. H., Marion.
						Riley, Charles C., Cincinnati, O.
						Robbins, Irvin, Indianapolis.
						Robbins, John E., Greensburg.
						Roberts, Benjamin, Indianapolis.
						Robertson, Asa P., Noblesville.
						Robertson, Robt. S., Ft. Wayne.
						Robeson, William C., Toledo, O.
						Robie, Guy S., Richmond.
						Robie, William J., Richmond.
						Robinson, A. J., Lafayette.
						Robinson, Hayden, Indianapolis.
						Robinson, John J., Lima, O.
						Robinson, J. R., Crawfordsville.
						Robison, Edward J., Indianapolis.
						Rockhill, Wm. W., Ft. Wayne.
						Rockwood, Charles B., Indianapolis.
						Rockwood, Charles E., Indianapolis.
						Roney, William H., Cicero.
						Root, C. G., Minneapolis, Minn.
						Root, Henry A., Michigan City.
						Roots, Francis T., Connersville.
						Rose, Hiram E., Indianapolis.
						Rose, Theo. F., Muncie.
						Ross, Fred T., Indianapolis.
						Ross, John, Peru.
						Rossetter, Waldo B., Indianapolis.
						Rouser, Charles, Indianapolis.
						Rowland, H. W., Franklin, Pa.
						Rudy, Chaning L., Hagerstown.
						Ruef, Elmer E., Indianapolis.
						Ruef, W. H., Poughkeepsie, N. Y.
						Ruff, Joseph J., Hammond.
						Rundell, Clarence C., Indianapolis.
						Runyon, Eugene, New Castle.
						Ruschaupt, Charles, Indianapolis.
						Rush, John J., Smiths Valley.
						Russ, Charles A., Chicago, Ill.
						Russell, C. P., New River, Tenn.
						Russell, Isaac O., Lafayette.
						Rutledge, Thomas C., Lafayette.
						Rurode, Ernest C., Ft. Wayne.



						

						Ryse, Robert, Indianapolis.
						Sample, K. G., Webb City, Mo.
						Sampsell, Homer A., Indianapolis.
						Sargent, Frank P., Peoria, Ill.
						Sargent, Leonard S., Indianapolis.
						Sargent, Oliver B., Logansport.
						Sattely, John S., Attica.
						Sayles, Charles F., Indianapolis.
						Sayre, George B., Mansfield, O.
						Schaefer, C. Richard, Indianapolis.
						Schanz, Alfred B., Attica.
						Schepman, G. W., Richmond.
						Schick, Albert A., Marion.
						Schlimper, C. F. W., Boston,Mass.
						Schmidt, Lorenz, Indianapolis.
						Schmidt, William H., Indianapolis.
						Schneider, Karl G., Indianapolis.
						Scholl, Logan C., Indianapolis.
						Scholz, Fred J., Indianapolis.
						Schoppenhorst, Wm., Indianapolis.
						Schomberg, William L., Indianapolis.
						Schrader, Charles H., Indianapolis.
						Scott, Elias, Wabash.
						Scott, Harry K., Angola.
						Scott, William, Indianapolis.
						Scott, William G., Greenfield.
						Schroer, Edward E., Indianapolis.
						Schwager, H. A., Michigan City.
						Seavey, W. R., Ft. Wayne.
						Seguin, Edward S. R., Indianapolis.
						Seibert, George W., Indianapolis.
						Seiter, Victor E., Logansport.
						Severson, Wilbur F., Lafayette.
						Seybold, J. Abner, Logansport.
						Shafer, Wm. J., Indianapolis.
						Shaneberger, Albert H., Indianapolis.
						Shannon, Charles F., Brazil.
						Sharitts, Vernon B., Ladoga.
						Sharpe, Joseph K., Jr., Indianapolis. 
						Shearer, Samuel H., Indianapolis.
						Shelburne, W. T., Zionsville.
						Shera, F. D., Indianapolis.
						Sherman, Charles J., Indianapolis.

						Sherman, Cuthbert J., Sullivan,
						Shideler, G. A. H., Michigan City
						Shideler, Isaac, Logansport.
						Shirk, John C., Brookville.
						Shiveley, D. M., South Bend.
						Shobe, Henry C., Linden.
						Short, Luther, Franklin.
						Shortridge, James M., St. Paul.
						Shufelton, Thomas P., Indianapolis.
						Shuman, Gilbert E., Peru.
						Shupe, Jonathan E., Marion.
						Simmons, John A., Indianapolis.
						Simons, M. H., Montpelier.
						Simonton, Robert, Huntington.
						Simpson, Benjamin, Carbon.
						Sipe, Jacob C., Indianapolis.
						Sipp, B. Frank, Connersville.
						Sipp, William W., Haubstadt.
						Sloan, Chas. E., Indianapolis.
						Sloan, Geo. B., Indianapolis.
						Smiley, James G., Thorntown.
						Smiley, Thomas G., Indianapolis.
						Smith, A. Nicholas, Terre Haute.
						Smith, Harry B., Indianapolis.
						Smith, Horace E., Indianapolis.
						Smith, Jacob W., Indianapolis.
						Smith, John H., Muncie.
						Smith, John M., Lafayette.
						Smith, Joseph W., Indianapolis.
						Smith, Wilson C., Marion.
						Smith, William H., Rushville.
						Smither, Henry C., Indianapolis.
						Smock, Fred C., Indianapolis.
						Smythe, William H., Indianapolis.
						Snavelly, Will K., Wabash.
						Snow, Henry, Greenfield.
						Snyder, A. W., Montpelier.
						Snyder, J. C., Crawfordsville.
						Somes, James E., Terre Haute.
						Souders, O. Otis, Indianapolis.
						South, Ellis E., Terre Haute.
						Spafford, Thomas E., Indianapolis.
						Spang, Henry M., Terre Haute.



						

						Spencer, William W., Indianapolis.
						Spitler, Charles G., Rensselaer.
						Sponhauer, Widler S., Ft. Wayne.
						Sprague, Harry E., Ft. Wayne.
						Stalnaker, Frank D., Indianapolis.
						Stansbury, Robert J., Ligonier.
						Stanton, Robert F., Madison.
						Staton, Millard F., Thorntown.
						Staub, John W., Indianapolis.
						Steeg, Henry C., Terre Haute.
						Stemen, C. B., Fort Wayne.
						Stephens, Chas. M., Walkerton.
						Stern, John R., Evansville.
						Sterzick, Edward A., Edinburg.
						Stevens, Fred M., Bluffton.
						Stevens, John S., Richmond, Va.
						Stewart, Alex M., Indianapolis.
						Stewart, Edward S., Marion.
						Stewart, Jonathan, Indianapolis.
						Stiles, Henry G., Indianapolis.
						Stinson, J. V., Huntingburg.
						Stone, Charles S., Indianapolis.
						Stone, T. W., Evansville.
						Stoner, Elmer E., Greenfield.
						Stoner, James S., Noblesville.
						Storen, Mark, Scottsburg.
						Stott, Edward G., Indianapolis.
						Stouder, Frank E., Ft. Wayne.
						Stoy, William V., Lafayette.
						Strayer, Francis, Delphi.
						Streeter, Harry W., Greenfield.
						Strickland, Harry G., Greenfield.
						Stroup, Samuel P., Waldron.
						Strouse, David, Rockville.
						Sucese, Jay B., Lafayette.
						Sunderland, Jos. E., Ft. Wayne.
						Sutton, Richard L., Peru.
						Suverkrup, John W., Columbus.
						Swain, Charles M., Noblesville.
						Swain, George H., Indianapolis.
						Swain, Thomas A., Indianapolis.
						Swank, Alvin G., Indianapolis.
						Swart, George, Huntington.

						Sweet, Frank E., Indianapolis.
						Sweet, Samuel B., Indianapolis.
						Switzer, Albert B., Peru.
						Syfers, Rufus K., Indianapolis.
						Taggart, Thomas, Indianapolis.
						Talmage, Chas. H., Indianapolis.
						Tarkington, Wm. S. R., Indianapolis.
						Taylor, James H., Indianapolis.
						Taylor, William L., Indianapolis.
						Teagarden, Marion, Fort Wayne.
						Temple, Orange H., Lafayette.
						Terry, Frank, Lafayette.
						Thayer, E. P., Jr., Greenfield.
						Thayer, Henry G., Plymouth.
						Thieme, Ernest, Boswell.
						Thomas, J. Ezra, Scottsburg.
						Thomson, Alex W., Indianapolis.
						Thompson, David J., Rensselaer.
						Thompson, James D., Montpelier.
						Thompson, John A., Edinburg.
						Thompson, John F., New Castle.
						Thompson, Samuel C., Edinburg.
						Thompson, Wm. T., Edinburg.
						Thornton, Julius B., Indianapolis.
						Thrall, Frank R., Muncie.
						Threlkeld, William, Edinburg.
						Tillo, Charles D., Ft. Wayne.
						Tillotson, Alvin G., Mich. City.
						Tomlin, William S., Indianapolis.
						Townley, George F., Indianapolis.
						Townsend, Elmer E., Indianapolis.
						Townsend, Dick, Decatur.
						Townsend, Samuel A., Indianapolis.
						Treat, Atwater J., Indianapolis.
						Trick, Harry F., Logansport.
						Tripp, A. A., North Vernon.
						Tripp, Ernest H., Indianapolis.
						Trueblood, John O., Kokomo.
						Truitt, Roland S., Noblesville.
						Tryon, John M., Monroeville.
						Turner, George A., Indianapolis.
						Turner, George H., Vincennes.
						Turner, Jay L., Muncie.


						
						Turpen, William V., Marion.
						Tutewiler, Chas. W., Indianapolis.
						Tutewiler, Harry D., Indianapolis.
						Tuthill, H. B., Michigan City.
						Tuttle, Herman C., Indianapolis.
						Tuttle, LeGrand A., Montpelier.
						Tweed, Charles E., Indianapolis.
						Twiname, John J., Indianapolis.
						Tyndall, Robert H., Indianapolis.
						Vail, Walter, Michigan City.
						Van Camp, Ray P., Indianapolis.
						Van Camp, Samuel G., Indianapolis.
						Van Petten, Sol. L., Anderson.
						Van Tilburgh, John B., Indianapolis.
						Vesey, William J., Ft. Wayne.
						Vinson, Frank J., Indianapolis.
						Von Phul, Geo. B., Greensburg.
						Voris, Joseph R., Bedford.
						Wade, Frank P., Indianapolis.
						Wade, Ohio L., Indianapolis.
						Wagoner, C. E., Logansport.
						Wagner, Theo. A., Indianapolis.
						Wainwright, Lucius M., Indianapolis.
						Walk, Carl F., Indianapolis.
						Walk, Julius C., Indianapolis.
						Wallace, Adam, Lafayette.
						Wallace, David, Indianapolis.
						Wallace, Harry R., Indianapolis.
						Wallace, Henry L., Indianapolis.
						Walter, Bosler, Wabash.
						Walter, Charles A., Indianapolis.
						Wands, James W., Indianapolis.
						Warner, Elward W., Indianapolis.
						Warner, Samuel A., Edinburg.
						Waring, Lawrence C., Bluffton.
						Warren, John C., Terre Haute.
						Washburn, W. W., N. Richmond.
						Watson, Robert G., Danville, Ill.
						Webb, Alfred L., Kearney, Neb.
						Webb, Charles P., Indianapolis.
						Webb, David R., Edinburg.
						Webb, Isaiah D., Warsaw.
						Webb, William, Indianapolis.

						Webber, Irvin B., Warsaw.
						Wells, Samuel R., Greenfield.
						Whedon, William F., Madison.
						Wheelock, William B., Indianapolis.
						Whitcomb, Charles, Terre Haute.
						White, Ahira R., Indianapolis.
						White, Charles A., Danville.
						White, Henry C., Edinburg.
						White, R. Parks, Warsaw.
						Whiteley, Burt H., Muncie.
						Whitmer, Harry R., Goshen.
						Whitney, W. P., Veedersburg.
						Whitsett, Charles T., Indianapolis.
						Whitted, F. A., Bloomington.
						Wickard, William S., Indianapolis.
						Wickwire, Thomas S., Ashley.
						Widaman, John D., Warsaw.
						Wilcox, Harry E., Lapel.
						Wilcox, Horace G., Lapel.
						Wilcox, John T., Lapel.
						Wilcox, Russell A., Lapel.
						Wild, John F., Indianapolis.
						Wild, Leonard, Noblesville.
						Wild, Leonard G., Jr., Anderson.
						Wildhack, William A., Indianapolis.
						Wilding, Charles A., Ft. Wayne.
						Wiles, Frank M., Indianapolis.
						Wiley, Frederick H., Indianapolis.
						Wiley, Ulric Z., Fowler.
						Williams, Charles N., Indianapolis.
						Williams, Edwin L., Indianapolis.
						Williams, Frank E., Wabash.
						Williams, H. M., Noblesville.
						Williams, James R., Indianapolis.
						Williams, James S., Stinesville.
						Williams, John G., Indianapolis.
						Williams, Oliver W., Indianapolis.
						Willoughby, B. M., Vincennes.
						Wills, Marshal F., Indianapolis.
						Wilson, Frank, Indianapolis.
						Wilson, George S., Indianapolis.
						Wilson, J. Russell, Indianapolis.
						Wilson, J. Wood, Marion.


						

						Wilson, Medford B., Indianapolis.
						Wing, John F., Ft. Wayne.
						Winters, Fred H., Indianapolis.
						Winters, James M., Indianapolis.
						Wiselogel, Fred G., Indianapolis.
						Wishard, Albert W., Indianapolis.
						Wishart, Thomas, Lafayette.
						Wocher, Adolph G., Indianapolis.
						Wocher, Charles A., Indianapolis.
						Wocher, John, Indianapolis.
						Wocher, Wm. F., Indianapolis.
						Wolcott, Frank E., Indianapolis
						Wood, Augustus, Hobart.
						Wood, Charles A., Muncie.
						Wood, Frank W., Indianapolis.
						Wood, Horace F., Indianapolis.
						Wood, Israel O., Goshen.
						Wood, Julius C., Muncie.
						Wood, J. Frank, Saginaw, Mich.
						Wood, Melville, Muncie.
						Wood, Paul E., Ft. Wayne.
						Woodford, George A., Indianapolis.

						Woods, Ford, Indianapolis.
						Woods, Robert A., Princeton.
						Woodward, Sheldon G., Indianapolis.
						Woolaver, Harry, Chicago, Ill.
						Woolley, Wm. J., Anderson.
						Worden, Charles M., Peru.
						Wright, Charles E., Indianapolis.
						Wright, William M., Indianapolis.
						Wyman, Albert H., Huntington.
						Wynne, Thomas A., Indianapolis.
						Yarnelle, William R., Wabash.
						Yinger, Marion E., Garrett.
						Young, Andrew G., Chicago, Ill.
						Young, Arch. A., Indianapolis.
						Yount, Thomas J., Indianapolis.
						Zeigler, Henry C., Montpelier.
						Zickendrath, F. W., Greensburg.
						Ziegel, Edward F., Indianapolis.
						Zimmerman, Arthur H., Brazil.
						Zinn, Robert, Indianapolis.
						Zion, Charles M., Lebanon.
						Zollars, Allen, Ft. Wayne.
					


					Total membership—1305.
				
				
			

		
	
