
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Debs, Eugene V. (Eugene Victor), 1855-1926.. Industrial unionism. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2012).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAC0876
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		

			
			
			
				
					INDUSTRIAL UNIONISM
					
					AN ADDRESS Delivered at Grand Central Palace, New
						York. SUNDAY, DECEMBER 10, 1905
				
				BY Eugene V. Debs
				Stenographically Reported by the Waldo Typewriting Co., New York City PRICE FIVE
					CENTS 
					New York Labor News Co.
					28 City Hall Place, New York
			


			


		
		
			

			
			
				INDUSTRIAL UNIONISM
				
				(Chairman Rozelle:--I have the pleasure now to introduce to you one whom you all know,
					Eugene V. Debs.)
				There is inspiration in your greeting and my heart opens wide to receive it. I have come
					a thousand miles to join with you in fanning the flames of the proletarian revolution.
					(Applause).
				Your presence here makes this a vitalizing atmosphere for a labor agitator. I can feel my
					stature increasing, and this means that you are growing, for all my strength is drawn from
					you, and without you I am nothing.
				In capitalist society you are the lower class; the capitalists are the upper
					class--because they are on your backs; if they were not on your backs, they could not be
					above you. (Applause and laughter).
				Standing in your presence, I can see in your gleaming eyes and in your glowing faces the
					vanguard; I can hear the tramp, I can feel the thrill of the social revolution. The
					working class are waking up. (A voice, "you bet"). They are beginning to understand that
					their economic interests are identical, that they must unite and act together economically
					and politically and in every other way; that only by united action can they overthrow the
					capitalist system and emancipate themselves from wage-slavery. (Applause).
				I have said that in capitalist society the working class are the lower class; they have
					always been the lower class. In the ancient world for thousands of years they were abject
					slaves; in the Middle Ages, serfs; in modern times, wage-workers; to become free men in
					socialism is the next inevitable phase in our civilization. (Applause). The working class
					have struggled through all the various phases of their development, and they are to-day
					engaged in the last stage of the animal struggle for existence; and when the present
					revolution has run its course, the working class will stand forth the sovereigns of this
					earth.
				In capitalist society the working man is not, in fact, a man at all; as a wage-worker, he
					is simply merchandise; he is bought in the open market the same as hair, hides, salt, or
					any other form of merchandise. The very terminology  of the
					capitalist system proves that he is not a man in any sense of that term.
				When the capitalist needs you as a working man to operate his machine, he does not
					advertise, he does not call for men but for "hands"; and when you see a placard posted
					"Fifty hands wanted," you stop on the instant; you know that that means YOU, and you take
					a bee-line for the bureau of employment to offer yourself, in evidence of the fact that
					you are a "hand." When the capitalist advertises for hands, that is what he wants. He
					would be insulted if you were to call him a "hand." He has his capitalist politician tell
					you, when your vote is wanted, that you ought to be very proud of your hands because they
					are horny; and if that is true, he ought to be ashamed of his. (Laughter and
					applause).
				What is your status in society to-day? You are a human being, a wage-worker. Here you
					stand just as you were created, and you have two hands that represent your labor power;
					but you do not work and why not?--For this simple reason, that you have no tools with
					which to work; you cannot compete against the machinery of the capitalist with your bare
					hands; you cannot work unless you have access to it, and you can only secure access to it
					by selling your labor power, that is to say your energy, your vitality, your life itself,
					to the capitalist who owns the tool with which you work, and without which you are idle
					and suffer all of the ills that idleness entails.
				In the evolution of capitalism, society has Been divided mainly into two economic
					classes: a relatively small class of capitalists who own tools in the form of great
					machines they did not make and cannot use, and a great body of many millions of workers
					who did make these tools and who do use them, and whose very lives depend upon them, yet
					who do not own them; and these millions of wage-workers, producers of wealth, are forced
					into the labor market, in competition with each other, disposing of their labor power to
					the capitalist class, in consideration of just enough of what they produce to keep them in
					working order. They are exploited of the greater share of what their labor produces, so
					that while, upon the one hand, they can produce  in great
					abundance, upon the other, they can consume but that share of the product that their
					meagre wage will buy; and every now and then it follows that they have produced more than
					can be consumed in the present system, and then they are displaced by the very products of
					their own labor; the mills and shops and mines and quarries in which they are employed,
					close down, the tools are locked up and they are locked out, and they find themselves idle
					and helpless in the shadow of the very abundance their labor has created. There is no hope
					for them in this system. They are beginning to realize this fact, and so they are
					beginning to organize themselves; they are no longer relying upon some one else to
					emancipate them, but they are making up their minds to depend upon themselves and to
					organize for their own emancipation.
				Too long have the workers of the world waited for some Moses to lead them out of bondage.
					He has not come; he never will come. I would not lead you out if I could; for if you could
					be led out, you could be led back again. (Applause). I would have you make up your minds
					that there is nothing that you cannot do for yourselves. You do not need the capitalist.
					He could not exist an instant without you. You would just begin to live without him.
					(Laughter and prolonged applause). You do everything and he has everything; and some of
					you imagine that if it were not for him you would have no work. As a matter or fact, he
					does not employ you at all; you employ him to take from you what you produce, and he
					faithfully sticks to his task. If you can stand it, he can; and if you don't change this
					relation, I am sure he won't. You make the automobile, he rides in it. If it were not for
					you he would walk; and if it were not for him, you would ride.
				The capitalist politician tells you on occasion that you are the salt of the earth; and
					if you are, you had better begin by salting down the capitalist class.
				The revolutionary movement of the working class will date from the year 1905, from the
					organization of the INDUSTRIAL WORKERS OF THE WORLD. (Prolonged applause). Economic
					solidarity is to-day the supreme need of the working class. The old form of unionism has
					long  since fulfilled its mission and
					outlived its usefulness and the hour has struck for a chance.
				The old unionism is organized upon the basis of the identity of interests of the
					capitalist and working classes. It spends its time arid energy trying to harmonize these
					two essentially antagonistic classes; and so this unionism has at its head a harmonizing
					board called the Civic Federation. This federation consists of three parts; a part
					representing the capitalist class; a part supposed to represent the working class, and
					still another part that is said to represent the "public." The capitalists are represented
					by that great union labor champion, August Belmont. (Laughter and hisses). The working
					class is represented by Samuel Gompers, the president of the American Federation of Labor
					(hisses and cry "sick him,") and the public, by Grover Cleveland. (Laughter).
				Can you imagine a fox and goose peace congress? Just fancy such a meeting, the goose
					lifting its wings in benediction, and the fox whispering "Let us prey"
				The Civic Federation has been organized for the one purpose of prolonging the age-long
					sleep of the working class. Their supreme purpose is to keep you from waking up. (A voice:
					"They can't do it.")
				The Industrial Workers has been organized for an opposite purpose and its representatives
					come in your presence to tell you that there can be no peace between you, the working
					class, and the capitalist class who exploit you of what you produce; that as workers you
					have economic interests apart from and opposed to their interests, and that you must
					organize by and for yourselves; and that if you are intelligent enough to understand these
					interests, you will sever your relation with the old unions in which you are divide and
					sub-divided, and join the Industrial Workers, in which all are organized and united upon
					the basis of the class struggle. (Applause).
				The Industrial Workers is organized, not to conciliate, but fight the capitalist class.
					We have no object in concealing any part of our mission; we would have it perfectly
					understood. We deny that there is anything in common between workingmen and capitalists.
					We insist that workingmen  must organize to get rid of
					capitalists and make themselves the masters of the tools with which they work, freely
					employ themselves, secure to themselves all the produce, and enjoy to the full the fruit
					of their labors. (Applause).
				The old union movement is not only organized upon the basis of the identity of interests
					of the exploited and exploiting classes, but it divides instead of uniting the workers,
					and there are thousands of unions, more or less in conflict, used against one another; and
					so long as these countless unions occupy the field, there will be no substantial unity of
					the working class. (Applause).
				And here let me say that the most zealous supporter of the old union is the capitalist
					himself. August Belmont, president of the Civic Federation, takes special pride in
					declaring himself a "union man" (laughter); but he does not mean by that that he is an
					Industrial. Worker, that is not the kind of a union he means. He means the impotent old
					union that Mr. Gompers and Mr. Mitchell lead, the kind that keeps the working class
					divided so that the capitalist system may be perpetuated indefinitely.
				For thirty years I have been connected with the organized labor movement. I have long
					since been made to realize that the pure and simple union can do nothing for the working
					class; I have had some experience and know whereof I speak.
				The craft union seeks to establish its own petty supremacy. Craft division is fatal to
					class unity. To organize along craft lines means to divide the working class and make it
					the prey of the capitalist class. The working class can only be unionized efficiently
					along class lines; and so the Industrial Workers has been organized, not to isolate the
					crafts but to unite the whole working class. (Applause).
				The working class has had considerable experience during the past few years. In every
					conflict between labor and capital, labor has been deflated. Take the leading strikes in
					their order, and you will find that, without a single exception, the organized workers
					have been defeated, and thousands upon thousands of them have lost their jobs, and many of
					them have become "scabs." Is there not something wrong with a unionism in which the
					workers are always worsted?  Let me review hurriedly some of
					this history of the past few years.
				I have seen the conductors on the Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad, organized in
					a craft union, take the places of the striking union locomotive engineers on the same
					system.
				I have seen the employes of the Missouri, Kansas & Texas Railway, organized in their
					several craft unions, stand by the corporation as a unit, totally wiping out the union
					telegraphers, thirteen hundred of them losing their jobs.
				I have seen these same craft unions, just a little while ago, on the Northern Pacific and
					Great Northern systems--I have seen them unite with the corporation to crush out the
					telegraphers' union, and defeat the strikers, their own co-unionists and fellow
					employes.
				Just a few weeks ago, in the city of Chicago, the switchmen on the Grand Trunk went out
					on strike. All their fellow unionists remained at work and faithfully served the
					corporation until the switchmen were defeated, and now those union switchmen are scattered
					about looking for jobs.
				The machinists were recently on strike in Chicago. They went out in a body under the
					direction of their craft union. Their fellow unionists all remained at work until the
					machinists were completely defeated, and now their organization in that city is on the
					verge of collapse.
				There has been a ceaseless repetition of this form of scabbing of one craft union upon
					another until the working man, if his eyes are open, is bound to see that this kind of
					unionism is a curse and not a benefit to the working class.
				The American Federation of Labor does not learn by experience. They recently held their
					annual convention, and they passed the same old stereotyped resolutions; they are going to
					petition Congress to restrict the power of the courts; that is to say, they are going to
					once more petition a capitalist Congress to restrict the power of capitalist courts. That
					is as if a flock of sheep were to petition a lot of wolves to extract their own fangs.
					They have passed these resolutions over and over again. They have been totally fruitless
					and they will continue to be.
				What good came to the working class from this convention? 
					Put your finger upon a single thing they did that will be of any real benefit to the
					workers of the country!
				You have had some experience here in New York. You have plenty of unionism here, such as
					it is, yet there is not a city in the country in which the workers are less organized than
					they are here in New York. It was in March last that you had here an exhibition of pure
					and simple unionism. You saw about six thousand craft union men go out on strike, and you
					saw their fellow unionists remain at work loyally until all the strikers were defeated and
					sacrificed. Here you have an object lesson that is well calculated to set you thinking,
					and this is all I can hope to do by coming here, set you thinking, and for yourselves; for
					when you begin to think, you will soon begin to act for yourselves. You will then sever
					your relations with capitalist unions and capitalist parties (applause), and you will
					begin the real work of organizing your class, and that is what we of the Industrial
					Workers have engaged to do. We have a new mission. That mission is not merely the
					amelioration of the condition of the working class, but the complete emancipation of that
					class from slavery. (Applause).
				The Industrial Workers is going to do all for the working class that can be done in the
					capitalist system, but while it is engaged in doing that, its revolutionary eye will be
					fixed upon the goal; and there will be a great difference between a strike of
					revolutionary workers and a strike of ignorant trade unionists who but vaguely understand
					what they want and do not know how to get that. (Applause).
				The Industrial Workers is less than six months old, and already has a round hundred
					thousand of dues-paying members. (Applause). This splendid achievement has no parallel in
					the annals of organized labor. From every direction come the applications for charters and
					for organizers, and when the delegates of this revolutionary economic organization meet in
					the city of Chicago, next year, it will be the greatest convention that ever met in the
					United States in the interest of the working class. (Applause).
				This organization has a world-wide mission; it makes its appeal directly to the working
					class. It asks no favors from capitalists.


				

				No organization of working men has ever been so flagrantly misrepresented by the
					capitalist press as has been the Industrial Workers of the World; every delegate to the
					Chicago convention will bear testimony to this fact; and this is as it should be; the
					capitalist press is the mouthpiece of the capitalist class, and the very fact that the
					capitalist press is the organ, virtually, of the American Federation of Labor, is in
					itself sufficient to open the eyes of the working class.
				If the American Federation of Labor were not in alliance with the capitalist class, the
					capitalist press would not pour its fulsome eulogy upon it.
				This press has not one friendly word for the Industrial Workers, not one, and we do not
					expect it to have. These papers of the plutocrats know us and we know them (applause);
					between us there is no misunderstanding.
				The workers of the country (the intelligent ones at least) readily see the difference
					between revolutionary and reactionary unionism, and that is why thy are deserting the old
					and joining the new; that is why the Industrial Workers is building up so rapidly; that is
					why there is such a widespread demand for organizers and for literature and for all other
					means of building up this class-conscious economic organization. (Applause).
				As I have said, the Industrial Workers begin by declaring that there is nothing in common
					between capitalists and wage-workers.
				The capitalists own the tools they do not use, and the workers use the tools they do not
					own.
				The capitalists, who own the tools that the working class use appropriate to themselves
					what the working class produce, and this accounts for the fact that a few capitalists
					become fabulously rich while the toiling millions remain in poverty, ignorance and
					dependence.
				Let me make this point perfectly clear for the benefit of those who have not thought it
					out for themselves. Andrew Carnegie is a type of the capitalist class. He owns the tools
					with which steel is produced. These tools are used by many thousands of working men.
					Andrew Carnegie, who owns these tools, has absolutely nothing to do with the production of
					steel. He may be in Scotland, or where he will, the production  of steel goes forward just the same. His mills at Pittsburg, Duquesne and Homestead,
					where these tools are located, are thronged with thousands of tool-less wage-workers, who
					work day and night, in winter's cold and summer's heat, who endure all the privations and
					make all the sacrifices of health and limb and life, producing thousands upon thousands of
					tons of steel, yet not having an interest, even the slightest, in the product. Carnegie,
					who owns the tools, appropriates the product, and the workers, in exchange for their labor
					power, receive a wage that serves to keep them in producing order; and the more
					industrious they are, and the more they produce, the worse they are off: for the sooner
					they have produced more than Carnegie can get rid of in the markets, then the tool houses
					are shut down and the workers are locked out in the cold.
				This is a beautiful arrangement for Mr. Carnegie; he does not want a change, and so he is
					in favor of the Civic Federation, and a leading member of it; and he is doing what he can
					to induce you to think that this ideal relation ought to be maintained forever.
				Now, what is true of steel production is true of every other department of industrial
					activity; you belong to the millions who have no tools, who cannot work without selling
					your labor power, and when you sell that, you have got to deliver it in person; you cannot
					send it to the mill, you have got to carry it there; you are inseparable from your labor
					power.
				You have got to go to the mill at 7 in the morning and work until 6 in the evening,
					producing, not for yourself but for the capitalist who owns the tools you made and use,
					and without which you are almost as helpless as if you had no arms.
				This fundamental fact in modern industry you must recognize, and you must organize upon
					the basis of this fact: you must appeal to your class to join the union that is the true
					expression of your economic interests, and this union must be large enough to embrace you
					all, and such is the Industrial Workers of the World.
				Every man and every woman who works for wages is eligible to membership.
				Organized into various departments, when you join you 
					become a member of the department that represents your craft, or occupation, whatever it
					may be; and when you have a grievance, your department has supervision of it; and if you
					fail to adjust it in that department, you are not limited to your craft alone for support,
					but, if necessary, all the workers it all other departments will unite solidly in your
					defense to the very last (Applause).
				Take a plant in modern industry. The workers, under the old form of unionism, are
					parceled out to a score or more of unions. Craft division incites craft jealousy and so
					they are more or less in conflict with each other, and the employer constructively takes
					advantage of this fact, and that is why he favors pure and simple unionism.
				It were better for the workers who wear craft fetters if they were not organized at all,
					for then they could and would spontaneously go out on strike together; but they cannot do
					this in craft unionism, for certain crafts bind themselves up in craft agreements, and
					after they have done this, they are at the mercy of the capitalist; and when their fellow
					unionists call upon them for aid, they make the very convenient excuse that they cannot
					help them, that they must preserve the sanctity of the contract they have made with the
					employer. This so-called contract is regarded as of vastly more importance than the jobs,
					aye, the very lives of the workingmen themselves.
				We do not intend that certain departments shall so attach themselves to the capitalist
					employers. We purpose that the workers shall all be organized, and if there is any
					agreement, it will embrace them all; and if there is any violation of the agreement, in
					the case of a single employe, it at once becomes the concern of all. (Applause). That is
					unionism, industrial unionism, in which all of the workers, totally regardless of
					occupation, are united compactly within the one organization, so that at all times they
					can act together in the interests of all. It is upon this basis that the Industrial
					Workers of the World is organized. It is in this spirit and with this object in view that
					it makes its appeal to the working class.
				Then, again, the revolutionary economic organization has a new and important function
					which has never once been  thought of in the old union, for
					the simple reason that the old union intends that the wage system shall endure
					forever.
				The Industrial Workers declares that the workers must make themselves the masters of the
					tools with which they work; and so a very important function of this new union is to teach
					the workers, or, rather, have them teach themselves the necessity of fitting themselves to
					take charge of the industries in which they are employed when they are wrested as they
					will be, from their capitalist masters. (Applause).
				So when you join the Industrial Workers you feel the thrill of a new aspiration; you are
					no longer a blind, dumb wage-slave. You begin to understand your true and vital relation
					to your fellow-workers. In the Industrial Workers you are co-related to all other workers
					in the plant, and thus you develop the embryonic structure of the co-operative
					commonwealth. (Applause).
				The old unionism would have you contented. We Industrial Workers are doing what we can to
					increase your discontent. We would have you rise in revolt against wage-slavery. The
					working man who is contented to-day is truly a pitiable object. (Applause).
				Victor Hugo once said: "Think of a smile in chains,"--that is a working man who, under
					the influence of the Civic Federation, is satisfied with his lot; he is glad he has a
					master, has some one to serve; for, in his ignorance, he imagines that he is dependent
					upon the master.
				The Industrial Workers is appealing to the working class to develop their latent powers
					and above all, their capacity for clear thinking.
				You are a working man and you have a brain and if you do not use it in your own
					interests, you are guilty of high treason to your manhood. (Applause).
				It is for the very reason that you do not use your brain in your interests that you are
					compelled to deform your body in the interests of your master.
				I have already said that the capitalist is on your back; he furnishes the mouth, you the
					hands; he consumes, you produce. That is why he runs largely to stomach and you to hands.
					(Laughter).


				

				I would not be a capitalist; I would be a man; you cannot be both at the same time.
					(Applause).
				The capitalist exists by exploitation, lives out of the labor, that is to say the life,
					of the working man; consumes him, and his code of morals and standard of ethics justify it
					and this proves that capitalism is cannibalism. (Applause).
				A man, honest, just, high-minded, would scorn to live out of the sweat and sorrow of his
					fellow man--by preying upon his weaker brother.
				We propose to destroy the capitalist and save the man. (Applause). We want a system in
					which the worker shall get what he produces and the capitalist shall produce what he gets.
					(Applause). That is a square deal.
				The prevailing lack of unity implies the lack of class consciousness. The workers do not
					yet understand that they are engaged in a class struggle, that they must unite their class
					and get on the right side of that struggle economically, politically and in every other
					way--(applause), strike together, vote together and, if necessary, fight together. (Pro-
					longed applause).
				The capitalist and the leader of the pure and simple union do what they can to wipe out
					the class lines; they do not want you to recognize the class struggle;
					they contrive to keep you divided, and as long as you are divided, you will remain where
					you are, robbed and helpless..
				When you unite and act together, the world is yours. (Prolonged applause).
				The fabled Samson, shorn of his locks, the secret of his power, was the sport and prey of
					the pygmies that tormented him. The modern working class, shorn of their tools, the secret
					of their power, are at the mercy of a small class who exploit them of what they produce
					and then hold them in contempt because of their slavery.
				No master ever had the slightest respect for his slave any more than any slave ever had
					the least real love for his master.
				Between these two classes there is an irrepressible conflict, and we Industrial Workers
					are pointing it out that you may see it, that you may get on the right side of it, that
					you may get together and emancipate yourselves from every form of servitude.


				

				It can be done in no other way; but a bit of sober reasoning will convince you workers of
					this fact.
				It is so simple that a child can see it. Why can't you? You can if you will think for
					yourselves and see for yourselves. But you will not do this if you were taught in the old
					union school; you will still look to someone else to lead that you may follow; for you are
					trained to follow the blind leaders of the blind. You have been betrayed over and over
					again, and there will be no change until you make up your minds to think and see and act
					for yourselves.
				I would not have you blindly walk into the Industrial Workers; if I had sufficient
					influence or power to draw you into it, I would not do it. I would have you stay where you
					are until you can see your way clear to join it of your own accord. It is your
					organization; it is composed of your class; it is committed to the interests of your
					class; it is going to fight for your class, for your whole class, and continue the fight
					until your class is emancipated. (Applause).
				There is a great deal of opposition to this organization. The whole capitalist class and
					all their labor lieutenants are against it (applause); and there is an army of them, and
					all their names are on the pay-roll and expense account. They all hold salaried positions,
					and are looking out for themselves.
				When the working class unite, there will be a lot of jobless labor leaders.
					(Applause).
				In many of these craft unions they have it so arranged that the rank and file do not
					count for any more than if they were so many sheep. In the railroad organizations, for
					instance, if the whole membership vote to go out on strike, they cannot budge without the
					official sanction of the Grand Chief. His word outweighs that of the entire membership. In
					the light of this extraordinary fact, is it strange that the workers are often betrayed?
					Is it strange that they continue at the mercy of their exploiters?
				Haven't they had quite enough of this? Isn't it time for them to take an inventory of
					their own resources?
				If you are a working man, suppose you look yourself over, just once; take an invoice of
					your mental stock and see what you have. Do not accept my word; do not depend upon anybody
					but yourself. Think it out for yourself; and if you  do, I am
					quite certain that you will join the organization that represents your class (applause);
					the organization that has room for all your class; the organization that appeals to you to
					develop your own brain, to rely upon yourself and be a man among men. And that is what the
					working class have to do, cultivate self-reliance and think and act for themselves; and
					that is what they are stimulated to do in the Industrial Workers.
				We have great hope and abiding faith for we know that each day will bring us increasing
					numbers, influence and power; and this notwithstanding all the opposition that can be
					arrayed against us.
				We know that the principles of the Industrial Workers are right and that its ultimate
					triumph is assured beyond the question of a doubt; and if you believe in its conquering
					mission, then we ask you to be true enough to yourselves and your class to join it; and
					when you join it you will have a duty to perform and that duty will be to go out among the
					unorganized and bring them into the ranks and help in this great work of education and
					organization, without which the working class is doomed to continued ignorance and
					slavery.
				Carl Marx, the profound economic philosopher, who will be known in future as the great
					emancipator, uttered the inspiring shibboleth a half century ago: "Workingmen of all
					countries unite; you have nothing to lose but your chains; you have a world to gain."
				You workers are the only class essential to society; all others can be spared, but
					without you society would perish. You produce the wealth, you support government, you
					create and conserve civilization. You ought to be, can be and will be the masters of the
					earth. (Great applause).
				Why should you be dependent upon a capitalist? Why should this capitalist own a tool he
					cannot use? And why should not you own the tool you have to use?
				Every cog in every wheel that revolves everywhere has been made by the working class, and
					is set and kept in operation by the working class; and if the working class can make and
					operate this marvelous wealth-producing machinery, they can also develop the intelligence
					to make themselves the masters of this machinery (applause), and operate it not to turn
					out  millionaires, but to produce wealth in abundance for
					themselves.
				You cannot afford to be contented with your lot; you have a brain to develop and a
					manhood to sustain. You ought to have some aspiration to be free.
				Suppose you do have a job, and that you can get enough to eat and clothes enough to cover
					your body, and a place to sleep; you but exist upon the animal plane; your very life is
					suspended by a slender thread; you don't know what hour a machine may be invented to
					displace you, or you may offend your economic master, and your job is gone. You go to work
					early in the morning and you work all day; you go to your lodging at night, tired; you
					throw your exhausted body upon a bed of straw to recuperate enough to go back to the
					factory and repeat the same dull operation the next day, and the next, and so on and on to
					the dreary end; and in some respects you are not so well off as was the chattel slave. He
					had no fear of losing his job; he was not black-listed; he had food and clothing and
					shelter; and now and then, seized with a desire for freedom, he tried to run away from his
					master. You do not try to run away from yours. He doesn't have to hire a policeman to keep
					an eye on you. When you run, it is in the opposite direction, when the bell rings or the
					whistle blows.
				You are as much subject to the command of the capitalist as if you were his property
					under the law. You have got to go to his factory because you have got to work; he is the
					master of your job, and you cannot work without his consent, and he only gives this on
					condition that you surrender to him all you produce except what is necessary to keep you
					in running order.
				The machine you work with has to be oiled; you have to be fed; the wage is your lubricant
					it keeps you in working order, and so you toil and sweat and groan and reproduce yourself
					in the form of labor power, and then you pass away like a silk worm that spins its task
					and dies.
				That is your lot in the capitalist system and you have no right to aspire to rise above
					the dead level of wage-slavery.
				It is true that one in ten thousand may escape from his class and become a millionaire;
					he is the rare exception that  proves the rule. The
					wage-workers remain in the working class, and they never can become anything else in the
					capitalist system. They produce and perish, and their exploited bones mingle with the
					dust.
				Every few years there is a panic, industrial paralysis, and hundreds of thousands of
					workers are flung into the streets; no work, no wages; and so they throng the highways in
					search of employment that cannot be found; they become vagrants, tramps, outcasts,
					criminals. It is in this way that the human being degenerates, and that crime graduates in
					the capitalist system, all the way from petty larceny to homicide.
				The working millions who produce the wealth have little or nothing to show for it. There
					is widespread ignorance among them; industrial and social conditions prevail that defy all
					language properly to describe. The working class consists of a mass of human beings, men,
					women and children, in enforced competition with one another, in all of the circling hours
					of the day and night, for the sale of their labor power, and in the severity of the
					competition the wage sinks gradually until it touches the point of subsistence.
				In this struggle more than five millions of women are engaged and about two millions of
					children, and the number of child laborers is steadily increasing, for in this system
					profit is important, while life has no value. It is not a question of male labor, or
					female labor, or child labor; it is simply a question of cheap labor without reference to
					the effect upon the working class; the woman is employed in preference to the man and the
					child in preference to the woman; and so we have millions of children who, in their early,
					tender years, are seized in the iron clutch of capitalism, when they ought to be upon the
					playground, or at school; when they ought to be in the sunlight, when they ought to have
					wholesome food and enjoy the fresh atmosphere they are forced into the industrial dungeon
					and there they are riveted to the machines; they feed the insatiate monsters and become as
					living cogs it the revolving wheels. They are literally fed to industry to produce
					profits. They are dwarfed and deformed, mentally, morally and physically; they have no
					chance in life; they are the victims of the industrial system that the Industrial Workers
					is organized to abolish, in the interest, not  only of the
					working class but in the higher interest of all humanity. (Applause).
				If there is a crime that should bring to the callous cheek of capitalist society the
					crimson of shame, it is the unspeakable crime of child slavery; the millions of babes that
					fester in the sweat shops, are the slaves of the wheel, and cry out in their agony, but
					are not heard in the din and roar of our industrial infernalism.
				Take that great army of workers, called coal miners, organized in a craft union that does
					nothing for them; that seeks to make them contented with their lot. These miners are at
					the very foundation of industry and without their labor every wheel would cease to revolve
					as if by the decree of some industrial Jehovah. (Applause). There are 600,000 of these
					slaves whose labor makes possible the firesides of the world, while their own loved ones
					shiver in the cold. I know something of the conditions under which they toil and despair
					and perish. I have taken time enough to descend to the depths of these pits, that Dante
					never saw, or he might have improved upon his masterpiece. I have stood over these slaves
					and I have heard the echo of their picks, which sounded to me like muffled drums throbbing
					funeral marches to the grave, and I have said to myself, in the capitalist system, these
					wretches are simply following their own hearses to the potter's field. In all of the
					horizon of the future there is no star that sheds a ray of hope for them.
				Then I have followed them from the depths of these black holes, over to the edge of the
					camp, not to the home, they have no home; but to a hut that is owned by the corporation
					that owns them, and here I have seen the wife,--Victor Hugo once said that the wife of a
					slave is not a wife at all; she is simply a female that gives birth to young--I have seen
					this wife standing in the doorway, after trying all day long to make a ten-cent piece do
					the service of a half-dollar, and she was ill-humored; this could not be otherwise, for
					love and abject poverty do not dwell beneath the same roof. Here there is no paper upon
					the wall and no carpet upon the floor; there is not a picture to appeal to the eye; there
					is no statute to challenge the soul, no strain of inspiring music to touch and quicken
					what Lincoln called the better angels of human  nature. Here
					there is haggard poverty and want. And in this atmosphere the children of the future are
					being reared, many thousands of them, under conditions that make it morally certain that
					they will become paupers, or criminals, or both.
				Man is the product, the expression of his environment. Show me a majestic tree that
					towers aloft, that challenges the admiration of man, or a beautiful rose-bud that, under
					the influence of sunshine and shower, bursts into bloom and fills the common air with its
					fragrance; these are possible only because the soil and climate are adapted to their
					growth and culture. Transfer this flower from the sunlight and the atmosphere to a cellar
					filled with noxious gases, and it withers and dies. The same law applies to human beings;
					the industrial soil and the social climate must be adapted to the development of men and
					women, and then society will cease producing (cry of "down with capitalism") the
					multiplied thousands of deformities that to-day are a rebuke to our much vaunted
					civilization, and, above all, an impeachment of the capitalist system. (Applause).
				What is true of the miners is true in a greater or less degree of all workers in all
					other departments of industrial activity. This system has about fulfilled its historic
					mission; upon every hand there are the unerring signs of change, and the time has come for
					the organization of the working class to pave the way for this change. Education and
					organization of the working class for the social revolution (applause) that is to lift the
					workers from the depths of slavery and elevate them to an exalted plane of equality and
					fraternity. (Applause).
				At the beginning of industrial society men worked with hand tools; a boy could learn a
					trade, make himself the master of the simple tools with which he worked, and employ
					himself and enjoy what he produced; but that simple tool of a century ago has become a
					mammoth social instrument; in a word, that tool has been socialized. Not only this, but
					production has been socialized. As small a commodity as a pin or a pen, or a match
					involves for its production all of the social labor of the land; but this evolution is not
					yet complete; the tool has been socialized, production has been socialized,  and now ownership must also be socialized; in other words,
					those great social instruments that are used in modern industry for the production of
					wealth, those great social agencies that are socially made and socially used, must also be
					socially owned. (Applause).
				The Industrial Workers is the only economic organization that makes this declaration,
					that states this fact and is organized upon this foundation, that the workers must own
					their tools and employ themselves. This involves a revolution, and this means the end of
					the capitalist system, and the rearing of a working class republic (prolonged applause),
					the first real republic the world has ever known; and it is coming just as certainly as I
					stated in your presence.
				You can hasten it, or you can retard it, but you cannot prevent it.
				This the working class can achieve, and if you are in that class and you do not believe
					it, it is because of your ignorance, if is because you got your education in the school
					of pure and simple unionism, or in a capitalist political party. This the working class can
					achieve and all that is required is that the working class shall be educated, that they
					shall unite, that they shall act together.
				The capitalist politician and the labor lieutenant have always contrived to keep the
					working class divided, upon the economic field and upon the political field; and the
					workers have made no progress, and never will until they desert those false leaders and
					unite beneath the revolutionary standard of the Industrial Workers of the World.
					(Applause).
				The capitalists have the mills and the tools and the dollars, but you are an overwhelming
					majority; you have the men, you have the votes. There are not enough of them to continue
					this system an instant; it can only be continued by your consent and with your approval,
					and to the extent that you give it you are responsible for your slavery; and if you have
					your eyes opened, if you understand were you properly belong, it is still a fortunate
					thing for you that you cannot do anything for yourself until you have opened the eyes of
					those that are yet in darkness. (Applause).
				Now, there are many workers who have had their eyes opened and they are giving their time
					and energy to the revolutionary  education of the working
					class (applause), and every day sees our minority increasing, and it is but a question of
					time until this minority will be converted into the triumphant majority (applause); and so
					we wait and watch and work in all of the circling hours of the day and night.
				We have just begun here in New York, and with a vim and an energy unknown in the circles
					of unionism. In six months from this night you will find that there is a very formidable
					organization of Industrial Workers in New York (applause); and if you are a working man
					and you have convictions of your own, then it is your duty to join this union and take
					your place where you belong.
				Don't hesitate because somebody else is falling back. Don't wait because somebody else is
					not yet ready. Act and act now and for yourself; and if you happen to be the only
					Industrial Worker in your shop, or in your immediate vicinity, you are simply monumental of
					the ignorance of your fellow-workers, and you have got to begin to educate them. For a
					little while they may point you out with the finger of contempt, but you can stand this,
					you can bear it with patience; if they persecute you, because you are true to yourself,
					your latent powers will be developed, you will become stronger than you now dream, and
					then you will do the deeds that live and you will write your name where it will stay.
				Never mind what others may say, or think, or do. Stand erect in the majesty of your
					manhood.
				Listen for just once to the throbbing of your own heart, and you will hear that it is
					beating quick-step marches to Camp Freedom.
				Stand erect! Lift your bowed form from the earth! The dust has long enough borne the
					impress of your knees.
				Stand up and see how long a shadow you cast in the sunlight! (Applause). Hold up your
					head and avow your convictions, and then accept, as becomes a man, the consequences of
					your acts!
				We need you and you need us. We have got to have the workers united, and you have got to
					help us in the work. And so we make our appeal to you to-night, and we know that you will
					not fail. You can arrive at no other conclusion; you are bound to join the industrial
					workers, and become  a missionary in the field of industrial
					unionism. You will then feel ecstasy of a new-born aspiration. You will do your very best.
					You will wear the badge of the Industrial Workers, and you will wear it with pride and
					joy.
				The very contempt that it invites will be a compliment to you; in truth, a tribute to
					your manhood.
				Go out into the field and bring in the rest of the workers, that they may be fully
					equipped for their great mission. We will wrest what we can, step by step, from the
					capitalists, but with our eye fixed upon the goal; we will press forward, keeping step
					together with the inspiring music of the new emancipation; and when we have enough of this
					kind of organization, as Brother De Leon said so happily the other day (applause), when we
					are lined up in battle array, and the capitalists try to lock us out, we will turn the
					tables on the gentlemen and lock them out. (Applause).
				We can run the mills without them but they cannot run them without us. (Applause).
				It is a very important thing to develop the economic power, to have a sound economic
					organization. This has been the inherent weakness in the labor movement of the United
					States. We need, and sorely need, a revolutionary economic organization. We must develop
					this kind of strength; it is the kind that we will have occasion to use in due time, and
					it is the kind that will not fail us when the crisis comes. So we shall organize and
					continue to organize the political field; and I am of those that believe that the day is
					near at hand when we shall have one great revolutionary economic organization of the
					working class and one great revolutionary political party of the working class. (Cheers
					and prolonged applause). Then will proceed with increased impetus the work of education
					and organization that will culminate in emancipation.
				This great body will sweep into power and seize the reins of government; take possession
					of industry in the name of the working class, and it can be easily done. All that will be
					required will be to transfer the title from the parasites to the producers; and then the
					working class, in control of industry, will operate it for the benefit of all. The work
					day will be reduced in proportion to the progress of invention.  Every man will work, or at least have a chance to work, and get the full
					equivalent of what he produces. He will work, not as a slave, but as a free man, and he
					will express himself in his work and work with joy. Then the badge of labor will be the
					only badge of aristocracy. The industrial dungeon will become a temple of science. The
					working class will be free, and all humanity disenthralled.
				The workers are the saviours of society (applause); the redeemers of the race: and
					when they have fulfilled their great historic mission, men and women can walk the
					highlands and enjoy the vision of a land without masters and without slaves, a land
					regenerated and resplendent in the triumph of Freedom and Civilization. (Long, continued
					applause).
			


			
			
				WHAT MEANS THIS STRIKE? By DANIEL DE LEON.
				"What Means This Strike?" is an address delivered before the striking textile workers of
					New Bedford, Mass. It is the best thing extant with which to begin the study of Socialism.
					The strike is used as an object lesson to show the nature of capitalist society. The
					development of the capitalist is clearly given, showing why it is that the capitalist
					class is able to live in idleness and luxury while the working class rots in poverty and
					toil.
				CONTENTS.--Whence Do Wages Come, and Whence Profits--The Capitalist System of
					Production--Nature of the "Work" Performed by the Capitalist--Mechanism of the Stock
					Corporation--Nature of the "Work" Performed by the "Directors" of Stock
					Corporations--"Original Accumulation" --How the Capitalist in General Gets His
					Capital--How Levi P. Morton Got His Capital--The Class Struggle--Nature of the Conflict
					Between the Working Class and the Capitalist Class--Development of Capitalist Society--
					Development of the Strike--How the Capitalists Rob Inventors--How the Capitalist Uses
					Machinery to Rob and Subjugate the Working Class--Why the Modern Strike Is Usually a
					Failure--Principles of the Organization the Working Class Must Have to Fight Successfully
					the Capitalist Class--Weaknesses of "Pure and Simple" Trade Unions--Career of Samuel
					Gompers --here Will Be No Safety for the Working Class Until It Wrenches the Government
					from the Capitalist Class, Abolishes the Wages System of Slavery, and Unfurls the Banner
					of the Socialist Republic.
				Single Copies, 5 Cents; 100 Copies,
			
			
			
				REFORM OR REVOLUTION. By DANIEL DE LEON.
				The Reformer is everywhere. The Populists, the Single Taxers, and the Bryanites, all
					claim to be losing sleep over their desire to Reform society, and when
					the Socialist avers that he would not turn over his hand for all the reforms their
					versatile imaginations have ever conceived, the Reformer says he cannot understand
					Socialist logic. The Reform craze has struck a good many workingmen, who would otherwise
					be doing valiant work for the Socialist Republic. "Reform or Revolution" Is intended to
					aid in landing such people on the bedrock of Socialism. It is an address delivered by
					Daniel DeLeon, the key-note being the desire to show the difference between Reform and
					Revolution, and to demonstrate that the Working Class can get nothing out of Reforms.
				CONTENTS.--Reform--Revolution--Difference Between Reform and Revolution--Government--The
					State--Development of Government from the Days of Savagery--Development of the Tool of
					Production--Origin of the Classes--The Capitalist State Appears--Nature of the
					"Government" Demanded by the Socialist Revolution--Materialism and Morality--Cannibalism
					--Chattel Slavery--Wage Slavery--The Class Struggle--Difference Between the
					Nationalization of Industries Demanded by the Reformers and the Nationalization Demanded
					by the Socialists--Difference Between the Reformer and the Revolutionist--Fake Movements:
					Knights of Labor, American Federation of Labor, the Single Tax, Populism--Why the
					Socialist Labor Party Heads the Column of the Militant Proletariat.
				Single Copies, 5 Cents; 100 Copies,
				New York Labor News Company,
				2 to 6 New Reade St., New York.
			


			
			
				VALUE, PRICE, AND PROFIT
				By KARL MARX. Edited by his daughter ELEANOR MARX AVELING. With an Introduction
					and Annotations by LUCIEN SANIAL.
				From a Mechanical Standpoint it is the first one of Marx's works
					published in America that can be looked upon as a careful piece of publishing. It is to be
					hoped that this excellent volume is the forerunner of other volumes of Marx, and that
					America will have the honor of publishing an edition that is accurate as to text, thorough
					in annotations, convenient in size, and presentable in every way. The present book will
					delight the lover of Marx, and every Socialist will desire a copy of it.
				--N. Y. Daily People.
				THIS book is especially timely, like everything else that Marx wrote.
					Written a couple of years before his "Capital" appeared, it is an address to workingmen,
					and covers in popular form many of the subjects later scientifically expanded in
					"Capital."
				Lucien Sanial says of it: "It is universally considered as the best epitome we have of
					the first volume of 'Capital,' and as such, is invaluable to the beginner in economics. It
					places him squarely on his feet at the threshold of his inquiry; that is, in a position
					where his perceptive faculties cannot be deceived and his reasoning power vitiated by the
					very use of his eyesight; whereas, by the very nature of his capitalist surroundings, he
					now stands on his head and sees all things inverted."
				Special interest attaches to what Marx says relative to strikes. Were the working Class
					thoroughly acquainted with the subject matter of this little work, we should hear no more
					of the "common ground" on which capital and labor might meet to settle their
					differences.
				The thousand and one schemes that are daily being flaunted in the faces of the working
					class by the lieutenants of the capitalists show the necessity there is on the part of the
					working class for a comprehensive understanding of the matter of wages, the relation of
					the wage worker to the employer, the source of profits, and the relation between profits
					and wages. These and other subjects are here presented, and so clearly does Marx present
					them that all he has to say can be understood by any person willing to pay close attention
					to his words.
				Cloth, 50 Cents. Paper, 16 Cents.
				NEW YORK LABOR NEWS COMPANY,
				2 New Reade Street, New York, N. Y.
			


			
			
				SOCIALISM. By WILLIAM SCHOLL M'CLURE.
				It would be very instructive, as well as entertaining, if a complete classification could
					be made of those who "object" to the zeal and energy displayed by modern Socialists in
					their propaganda of Socialism. The reformer objects to the Revolution--he wants to go by
					degrees; and the reformer is easily disposed of. Then comes the "good for evil"
					gentleman--he does not like the class struggle; and the Socialists can soon settle him.
					But when it comes to the pessimist, the man who knows what Socialism demands, believes the
					Socialist Republic would be justice personified, and yet blinks his eyes and says it is
					all very nice to think about, but that the remoteness of its realization should place the
					Socialist Republic outside the consideration of reasoning beings--when one meets that kind
					of a man, one must have tactics that will suit the occasion. It will not do much good to
					argue with him, but if one can persuade him to purchase a book that treats of his
					particular case, one may be able to set his brain matter going. Such a book is
					"Socialism." The object of the book is to scientifically demonstrate the propositions
					contained in the following paragraph:
				"Socialism is coming. It is useless to oppose it. One might as well fight
					the tides. The progress of economic evolution cannot be stopped. Capitalism is but its
					latest phase. Born yesterday, tomorrow it must pass away. To Socialism belongs the
					future."
				Mr. McClure begins his book by briefly tracing the condition of the working class from
					1200 down to 1890. Then he treats the following subjects in a manner that is genuinely
					Socialist:
				
					CONTENTS.
					Effect of Machinery on the Working Class.
					Anomalous Features of Capitalist Society.
					1. Permanent Army of the Unemployed.
					2. Growing Employment of Women and Children.
					3. Overproduction.
					Genesis of Capitalist Property:
					1. Means of Production Owned by the Producer.
					2. Means of Production Owned by the Capitalist.
					Socialism:
					1. Socialism and the "Division of Wealth."
					2. Socialism and Its Use of "Capital."
					3. Socialism and Governmental Tyranny.
					4. Socialism and Utopianism.
					b. Socialism and Labor Legislation.
					6. Socialism and the Class Struggle.
					7. Socialism Inevitable.
				
				"Socialism" is a good follower for "What Means This Strike?" and "Reform or
					Revolution."
				Single Copies, 5 Cents; 100 Copies,
				NEW YORK LABOR NEWS CO.,
				2 to 6 New Reade Street, New York City.
			


			
			
				Proceedings of the . . . . Tenth National Convention . of
					the Socialist Labor Party.
				
				Held in New York City June 2 to June 8, 1900. Stenographically reported by
					B. F. KEINARD. With an Appendix containing the Platform and Constitution of the Party, and
					numerous historic and official documents relative to the late conspiracy to wreck the
					Party.
				This book is a remarkably interesting and instructive contribution to current literature
					on the Labor Movement. Realizing that the Social Revolution can be brought about only by
					the use of political power wielded by the class that seeks its own emancipation, the
					Socialists are organized in a political party--the Socialist Labor Party--in order that
					they may achieve the conquest of that political power. The national conventions of the
					party are held every four years. The convention held in 1900 was doubly interesting owing
					to the reactionists who happened to get into the party having organized about a year
					preceding the convention, a conspiracy to sidetrack the party from the course prescribed
					for it by the Class Struggle. The conflict was a fierce one for a while, and ended in the
					utter rout of the "Kangaroos," as the conspirators were called. The report of the National
					Executive Committee, which makes up sixty pages of the Proceedings, details in an
					interesting manner the progress of the party since the 1896 convention, and makes public a
					good deal of inside information relative to the Kangaroo conspiracy.
				For a week the representatives of the Socialist proletariat of the nation were in
					convention assembled to consider ways and means for emancipating the working class from
					the thraldom of capitalism, and the revolutionary spirit dominated the convention. The
					debates are concise, to the point, and typify the party whose emblem is the Arm and
					Hammer.
				336 Pages. Cloth, $1 00. Paper, 50 Cents.
				NEW YORK LABOR NEWS COMPANY,
				2 New Reade Street, New York, N. Y.
			


			
			
				The Burning Question of Trades Unionism By DANIEL DE LEON
				A Lecture Delivered at Newark, N. J. April 21, 1904.
				Price, Five Cents
				NEW YORK LABOR NEWS CO.,
				2 and 6 New Reade Street, New York.
			
			
			
				INDUSTRIAL UNIONISM By EUGENE V. DEBS of the Industrial Workers
					of the World
				An Address Delivered at Grand Central Palace, New York, December 10,
					1905.
				Price, Five Cents
				Send 10 Cents for These Two Pamphlets.
				NEW YORK LABOR NEWS CO.,
				2 and 6 New Reade Street, New York.
			
			

			
			
				THE Eighteenth Brumaire of Louis Bonaparte BY KARL
					MARX. Translated by DANIEL DE LEON for the Socialist Labor Party.
				"The Eighteenth Brumaire of Louis Bonaparte" is one of Karl Marx's most profound and
					brilliant monographs. It may be considered the best work extant on the philosophy of
					history, especially on the history of the Movement of the Proletariat, together with the
					bourgeois manifestations that accompany the same, and the tactics that such conditions
					dictate.
				The recent Populist uprising, the more recent "Debs Movement," the thousand and one
					utopian and chimerical notions that are flaring up, the capitalist manuvres, the
					hopeless, helpless grasping after straws that characterizes the conduct of the bulk of the
					Working Class --all of these, together with the empty-headed, ominous figures that are
					springing into notoriety for a time, and have their day, mark the present period of the
					Labor Movement in the United States a critical one. The best information acquirable, and
					the best mental training obtainable, are requisite to steer through the existing chaos
					that the death-tainted social system of to-day creates all around us. To aid in this
					needed information and mental training, this instructive work by Marx is made accessible
					to English readers, and is recommended to the serious study of the serious.
				For the assistance of those who are unfamiliar with the history of France, and who might
					therefore be confused by some of the terms used by Marx, the following explanations may
					prove timely:
				On the 18th Brumaire (November 9, 1799,) the development of affairs in France enabled
					Napoleon Bonaparte to take the step that led with inevitable certainty to the imperial
					throne. The circumstances that, fifty years later, aided his nephew, Louis Bonaparte, to
					take a similar step with a similar result, gives the name to this work--"The Eighteenth
					Brumaire of Louis Bonaparte."
				Upon the overthrow of the first Napoleon came the restoration of the Bourbon
					throne--Louis XVIII., succeeded by Charles X. In July, l830, an uprising of the upper tier
					of the capitalist class (the aristocracy of finance) overthrew the Bourbon throne and set
					up the throne of Orleans, a younger branch of the House of Bourbon, with Louis Philippe as
					king. From the month in which this revolution occurred, Louis Philippe's monarchy is
					called the "July Monarchy." I% February, 1848, a revolt of the lower tier of the
					capitalist class (the "industrial bourgeois") against the aristocracy of finance dethroned
					Louis Philippe. This affair, also named from the month in which it took place, is called
					the "February Revolution." And the "Eighteenth Brumaire of Louis Bonaparte" starts with
					the "February Revolution."
				Despite the inapplicableness to America of the political names and political leadership
					described in the "Eighteenth Brumaire," both these names and leaderships are to such an
					extent the product of an eoonomic-social development that has taken place in the United
					States with even greater sharpness than in France, and have, likewise, their real or
					threatened counterparts here so completely, that by this work of Marx we are best enabled
					to understand our own history, to know whence we come, whither we are going, and how to
					conduct ourselves.
				78 PAGES. THE FRONTISPIECE IS A PICTURE OF MARX.
				PRICE, 25 CENTS.
				
				NEW YORK LABOR NEWS COMPANY,
				2 4 and 6 New Reade Street, New York City.
			


			
			
				THE WORKING CLASS. By KARL KAUTSKY. Translated from the
					German and Adapted to America by DANIEL DE LEON.
				"The Working Class" is the first of the "Kautsky Pamphlets." The history and growth of
					the Working Class and the effect of the capitalist system of production on the Working
					Class are vividly portrayed. The effect of machinery, the appearance of the army of the
					unemployed, the growth of woman and child labor, and many other topics of vital interest
					to the proletariat are interestingly discussed. The book should be followed by "The
					Capitalist Class."

				
					CONTENTS,
					CHAPTER I. Effect of Machinery.--Capitalist Production Increases
						the Number of the Proletariat--Proletarian Labor the Source of Capitalist Profit--How
						Machinery Lowers the Condition of the Working Class.
					CHAPTER II.--Wages.--Size of the Surplus Appropriated by the
						Capitalist Class--Influences That Tend to Raise and Lower Wages--Machinery Enables the
						Capitalist Class to Exploit Women and Children.
					CHAPTER III.--Dissolution of the Proletarian Family.--Woman Labor
						in Industry Destroys the Family Life of the Proletarian--Capitalist Class Endeavoring to
						Abolish the Family.
					CHAPTER IV.--Prostitution.--Capitalist System of Production
						Promotes Prostitution--Under Capitalism, Prostitution Is a Pillar of Society.
					CHAPTER V.--Early Days of the Wage-Working Proletariat.--Condition
						of the Working Class During the Early Days of Capitalism--The Working Proletariat
						Originally Is Merged with the Slums.
					CHAPTER VI.--The Uplifting of the Working Proletariat.--Contrasts
						Between the Slums and the Working Proletariat--Why the Working Class Hates and Despises
						the Rich--Capitalist Class Unconsciously Trains the Working Class in the Methods
						Required for the Overthrow of Capitalism --Contrasts in the Solidarity of the Workers
						Under Feudalism and Under Capitalism--Under Capitalism All Sections of the Working Class
						Are Welded Together.
					CHAPTER VII.--Counter Tendencies That Uplift and Abase the
							Proletariat.
					CHAPTER VIII.--The Industrial Reserve Army.--Army of the
						Unemployed Is Recruited Through Immigration--Army of the Unemployed Is Recruited Through
						Woman and Child Labor--Army of the Unemployed Is Recruited Through the Introduction of
						Machinery--Value of the Army of the Unemployed to the Capitalist Class.
					CHAPTER IX.--Steady Increase of the Proletariat--Mercantile and
							Educated Proletariat.--Effect of Capitalism on Small Stores--Capitalism Turns
						Education Into a Commodity--Great Increase of Educated People --Condition of Educated
						Workers Continually Deteriorates--Socialist Republic the Hope of the World.
				
				Single Copies, 5 cents. One Hundred Copies,
				NEW YORK LABOR NEWS CO.,
				2 to 6 New Reade Street, New York City.
			


			
			
				THE DAILY PEOPLE.
				The attention of all workingmen is called to the Daily People. It was
					established on July 1, 1900, by the Socialist Labor Party. Since then it has been doing
					valiant battle for the working class and the Socialist Republic.
				THE DAILY PEOPLE IS THE ONLY ENGLISH SOCIALIST DAILY PAPER IN THE WORLD.
					* * * *
				It is the property of the Socialist Labor Party, and is the organ of the militant working
					class of America. It is OWNED BY WORKINGMEN.
					EDITED BY WORKINGMEN.
					SUPPORTED BY WORKINGMEN.
				The mission of the Daily People is to educate the working class in the
					principles of Socialism to that point where they will march to the ballot box as a class,
					annihilate the capitalist system of production, with its idle capitalist class on the one
					hand and its starving working class on the other, and proclaim THE
						SOCIALIST REPUBLIC, a republic in which those who wish to live by their own labor
					shall have abundant opportunity to live, while those who wish to live on the labor of
					others, as the capitalists and their parasites live to-day, shall be given the same option
					the capitalists now give the working class--the option to GO TO WORK
						OR STARVE.
				Every workingman and all other honest citizens should read the Daily
						People. Capitalism is tottering to its grave. The banner of the Social Revolution
					is already unfurled. The forces of Capitalism and the forces of Socialism are lining up,
					and when the time comes for the FINAL TEST OF STRENGTH, the
					working class must be educated, organized, and disciplined. Educated, organized, and
					disciplined, nothing can keep them from victory. The Daily People is
					this educating, organizing, and disciplining force. Every workingman and all other honest
					citizens should read it.
				Subscription price--One year, $3.50; six months, $2; three months, 1; one month, 40
					cents. Sample copies free.
				THE DAILY PEOPLE,

				Nos. 2 to 6 New Reade Street.
					New York City.
			


			
			
				THE WEEKLY PEOPLE
				is a paper that the intelligent workingman cannot get along without. It is owned by the
					Socialist Labor Party, and is used by that Party as a weapon to smite from power the
					capitalist class, abolish the capitalist system of production, and with the mighty voice
					of the WORKING CLASS PROCLAIM * * * * * * THE SOCIALIST
						REPUBLIC.
				The Weekly People contains the cream of all that appears in the Daily People. Its editorials puncture the sham questions raised by
					capitalist papers and capitalist politicians to confuse the working class. It devotes
					special attention to those kindred foes of the working class, THE
						CAPITALIST AND THE LABOR FAKIR.
				Its correspondence columns contain interesting contributions from workingmen from all
					over the country, and give a good indication of the growth of the revolutionary spirit in
					the working class.
				Do you wish to know why it is that the VANDERBILTS AND ROCKEFELLERS
						CAN IDLE AWAY THEIR TIME IN YACHTS AND PALACE CARS WHILE THE WORKINGMEN WHO
						SLAVE IN THEIR FACTORIES AND MINES VEGETATE IN POVERTY?
				You will find the question answered in the Weekly People. Do you wish
					to know how "useful" the capitalist is? You will find the question answered in the Weekly People. Do you wish to know what a bona fide Trade Union should be?
					You will find the question answered in the Weekly People. In short, if
					you wish to know how the WORKING CLASS CAN ABOLISH WAGE SLAVERY,
					you should read the Weekly People. If you are not a Socialist, it will
					make you one. If you are a Socialist, it will put you in touch with the organized
					Socialist Movement.
				Subscription Price--50 cents a year; 25 cents for six months; 15 cents for three months.
					Sample copies free.
				THE WEEKLY PEOPLE.

				Nos. 2 to 6 New Reade Street.
					New York City.
			



			
			
				THE CLASS STRUGGLE. By KARL KAUTSKY. Translated From
					the German and Adapted to America by DANIEL DELEON.
				The struggle for supremacy between the Working Class and the Capitalist Class becomes
					more marked and acute as capitalist production develops. "The Class Struggle" gives a
					comprehensive description of the nature of the contest, its history, and its inevitable
					outcome. Each page is replete with facts for the Socialist. "The Class Struggle" is the
					third of the "Kautsky Pamphlets." It should be followed by "The Socialist Republic."
				
					CONTENTS.
					CHAPTER I.--Socialism and the Property-Holding Classes.--Why the
						Rich Will Not Become Socialists--Property-Holding Classes Are Tied to Capitalist
						Production.
					CHAPTER II.--Servants and Menials.--The Servant Class Is the Foe
						of the Working Class.
					CHAPTER III.--The Slums.--The Slums Are the Allies of the
						Capitalist Class.
					CHAPTER IV.--Philanthropy and Labor Legislation.--Capitalism
						Develops Pauperism--Why Capitalists Would Not Abolish Poverty if They Could--Importance
						of Factory Laws.
					CHAPTER V.--The Political Struggle.--How the Capitalists Render
						Labor Unions Ineffective--Proletariat Begins Struggle by Alliances with the Capitalist
						Class--Political Alliances with the Capitalist Class End--The Socialist Labor Party
						Appears--Certainty of the Ultimate Triumph of the Proletariat--Why the Proletariat Is
						Bound to End All Exploitation.
					CHAPTER VI.--The Labor Movement and Socialism.--Development of the
						Labor Movement--Utopian Socialists Were Hostile to the Labor Movement --"Labor
						Socialists" Were Hostile to the Class Struggle--Socialism of a Hundred Years Ago the
						Anarchism of To-day.
					CHAPTER VII.--The Socialist Labor Party--Union of the Labor Movement
							and Socialism.--The Socialist Labor Party and the Class Struggle--Objects and
						Results of the Class Struggle.
					CHAPTER VIII.--Internationality of the Socialist Labor
						Party.--Development of International Capitalism--Development of International
						Socialism --Internationality of the Class Struggle--Marx Organizes the International
						Association of Workingmen--The "International" Falls with the Paris Commune--Later
						Evidences of International Working Class Solidarity.
					CHAPTER IX.--The Socialist Labor Party and the People.--The
						Socialist Labor Party the Friend of the Working Class--The Socialist Labor Party the
						Friend of the Small Producer--When and Why Socialists Oppose the Small Producer--Small
						Production Cannot Defend Itself Against Capitalism.
				
				Single Copies, 5 cents. One Hundred Copies, $2.50.
				NEW YORK LABOR NEWS CO.,
				2 to 6 New Reade Street, New York City.
			


			

			
			
				Socialism, Political, Economy, Sociology
				
					Labor News Press.
				
				Science, History, Politics, Philosophy
				Sound Scientific Socialism, Labor Library Leaflets, Popular Propaganda Pamphlets
				The New York Labor News Company is the Literary Agency of the Socialist
					Labor Party.
				Recognizing that the trashy stuff dished up as 'Socialistic' by publishing houses to
					exploit socialist sentiment can only be driven from the field by developing a taste for
					scientific socialism, the NEW YORK LABOR NEWS COMPANY is bringing out, as
					rapidly as possible, the classics of Socialism.
				ITS PUBLICATIONS ARE SOUND
				ITS METHODS ARE SOUND
				CATALOGUE ON APPLICATION

				NEW YORK LABOR NEWS COMPANY
				28 CITY HALL PLACE, NEW YORK
			


		

	
