
     ----CITATION---- 
        Debs, Eugene V. (Eugene Victor), 1855-1926.. Liberty. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2012).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAC0878
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
        
            
                
            	
            	LIBERTY
By
EUGENE V. DEBS
Sixty copies of this book, or sixty socialist books
no two alike, mailed for $1.00
Chicago
	CHARLES H. KERR & COMPANY
	CO-OPERATIVE

         




        	LIBERTY.

Manifestly the spirit of '76 still survives,
The fires of liberty and noble aspirations are
not yet extinguished. I greet you to-night as
lovers of liberty and despisers of despotism.
I ccmprehend the significance of this demonstraticn 
and appreciate the honor that makes
it possible for me to be your guest on such
an occasion. The vindication and glorification
of American principles of government, as
proclaimed to the world in the Declaration of
Independence, is the high purpose of this
convocation.
Speaking for myself personally, I am  not
certain whether this is an occasion for rejoicing
or lamentation. I confess to a serious
doubt as to whether this day marks my deliverance
from bondage to freedom or my doom 
from freedom to bondage. Certain it is,
in the light of recent judicial proceedings, that
I stand in your presence stripped of my constitutional 
rights as a freeman and shorn of
every prerogative of American citizenship, and
what is true of myself is true of every other
citizen who has the temerity to protest against
corporation rule or question the absolute sway
of the money power. It is not law nor the
administration of law of which I complain. It





is the flagrant violation of the Constitution,
the totla abrogation of law and the usurpation
of judical and despotic power, by virtue of
which my colleagues and myself were committed
to jail against which I enter my solemn
protest, and any honest analysis of the proceedings-
must sustain the truth of the indictment.
In a letter recently written by the venerable
Judge Trumbull that eminent jurist says:
"The doctrine announced by the Supreme
Court in the Debs case, carried to its logical
conclusion, places every citizen at the mercy
of any prejudiced or malicious federal judge
who may think proper to imprison him." This
is the deliberate conclusion of one of the
purest, ablest and most distinguished judges
the Republic has produced. The authority of
Judge Trumbull upon this question will not
be impeached by anyone whose opinions are
not deformed or debauched. 
At this juncture I deem it proper to voice
my demand for a trial by a jury of my peers.
At the instigation of the railroad corporations
centering here in Chicago I was indicted for
conspiracy and I insist upon being tried as to
my innocence or guilt. It will be remembered
that the trial last winter terminated very
abruptly on account of a sick juror. It was
currently reported at the time that this was
merely a pretext to abandon the trial and thus
defeat the vindication of a favorable verdict,



which seemed inevitable, and which would
have been in painfully embarrassing contrast
with the sentence previously pronounced by
Judge Woods in substantially the same case.
Whether this be true or not, I do not know.
I do know, however, that I have been denied
a trial, and here and now I demand a hearing
of my case. I am charged with conspiracy to
commit a crime, and if guilty I should go to
the penitentiary. All I ask is a fair trial and
no favor. If the counsel for the government,
alias the railroads, have been correctly quoted
in the press, the case against me is "not to
be pressed," as they "do not wish to appear
in the light of persecuting the defendants."
I repel with scorn their professed  mercy.
Simple justice is the demand. I am not disposed 
to shrink from the fullest responsibility
for my acts. I have had time for meditation
and reflection and I have no hesitancy in declaring 
that under the same circumstances I
would pursue precisely the same course. So
far as my acts are concerned, I have neither
apology nor regrets.
Dismissing this branch of the subject, permit
me to assure you that I am not here to
bemoan my lot. In my vocabulary there are
no wails of despondency or despair. However
gloomy the future may appear to others, I
have an abiding faith in the ultimate triumph
of the right. My heart responds to the sentiments
of the poet who sings:



"Swing back to-day, O prison gate,
	O winds, stream out the stripes and stars,
	O men, once more in high debate
	Denounce injunction rule and czars.
	By Freedom's travail pangs we swear
	That slavery's chains we will not wear.
	
	"Ring joyously, O prison bell,
		O iron tongue, the truth proclaim;
		O winds and lightnings, speed to tell
		That ours is not a czar's domain.
		By all the oracles divine
		We pledge defense of Freedom's shrine.
	
	O freeman true! O sons of sires!
		O sons of men who dared to die!
		O fan to life old Freedom's fires
		And light with glory Freedom's sky.
		Then swear by God's eternal throne,
		America shall be Freedome home.

	"O workingmen! O Labor's hosts!
		O men of courage, heart and will;
		O far and wide send Labor's toasts
		Till every heart feels Freedom's thrill,
		And freemen's shouts like billows roar
		O'er the land from shore to shore."
Liberty is not a word of modern coinage.
Liberty and slavery are primal words, like
good and evil, right and wrong; they are opposites 
and coexistent.
There has been no liberty in the world since
        	


the gift, like sunshine and rain, came down
from heaven, for the maintenance of which
man has not been required to fight, and man's
complete degradation is secured only when
subjugation and slavery have sapped him of
the last spark of the noble attributes of his
nature and reduced him to the unresisting inertness 
of a clod.
The theme to-night is personal liberty; or
giving it its full height, depth and breadth,
American liberty, something that Americans
have been accustomed to eulogize since the
foundation of the Republic, and multiplied
thousands of them continue in the habit to this
day because they do not recognize the truth
that in the imprisonment of one man in defiance 
of all constitutional guarantees, the
liberties of all are invaded and placed in peril.
In saying this, I conjecture I have struck the
keynote of alarm that has convoked this vast
audience.
For the first time in the records of all the
ages, the inalienable rights of man, "life,
liberty and the pursuit of happiness," were
proclaimed July 4th, 1776.
It was then that crowns, scepters, thrones,
and the divine right of kings to rule, sunk together
and man expanded to glorious liberty
and sovereignty. It was then that the genius
of Liberty, speaking to all men in the commanding 
voice of Eternal Truth, bade them
assert their heaven-decreed prerogatives and



emancipate themselves from bondage. It was
a proclamation countersigned by the Infinite
--and man stood forth the coronated sovereign
of the world, free as the tides that flow, free
as the winds that blow; and on that primal
morning when creation was complete, the
morning stars and the sons of God, in anthem
chorus, sang the song of Liberty. It may be a
fancy, but within the limitless boundaries of
the imagination I can conceive of no other
theme more appropriate to weave into the
harmonies of Freedom. The Creator had
surveyed his work and pronounced it good, but
nothing can be called good in human affairs
with liberty eliminated. As well talk of air
without nitrogen, or water without oxygen, as
of goodness without liberty.
It does not matter that the Creator has
sown with stars the fields of ether and decked
the earth with countless beauties for man's
enjoyment. It does not matter that air and
ocean teem with the wonders of inmumerable
forms of life to challenge man's admiration
and investigation. It does not matter that
nature spreads forth all her scenes of beauty
and gladness and pours forth all the melodie
of her myriad-tongued voices for man's delectation. 
If liberty is ostracised and exiled,
man is a slave, and the world rolls in space
and whirls around the sun a gilded prison, a
domed dungeon, and though painted in all the
enchanting hues that infinite art could command,



it must still stand forth a blotch amid
the shining spheres of the sidereal heavens;
and those who cull from the vocabularies of
nations, living or dead, their flashing phrases
wlth which to apostrophize Liberty, are engaged 
in perpetuating the most stupendous
delusion the ages have known. Strike down 
liberty, no matter by what subtle and infernal
art the deed is done, the spinal cord of humanity
is sundered and the world is paralyzed by
the indescribable crime.
Strike the fetters from the slave, give him
liberty and he becomes an inhabitant of a new
world. He looks abroad and beholds life and
joy in all things around him. His soul expands 
beyond all boundaries. Emancipated by
the genius of Liberty, he aspires to communion
with all that is noble and beautiful and feels
himself allied to all the higher order of 
intelligences; and he walks abroad, redeemed 
from animalism, ignorance and superstition, a
new being throbbing with glorious life.
What pen or tongue, from primeval man to
the loftiest intellect of the present generation,
has been able to fittingly anathematize the
more than satanic crime of stealing the jewel
of liberty from the crown of manhood and reducing 
the victim of the burglary to slavery or
to prison, to gratify those monsters of iniquity
who for some inscrutable reason are given
breath to contaminate the atmosphere and



poison every fountain and stream designed to
bless the world!
It may be questioned if such interrogatories
are worth the time required to state them, and
I turn from their consideration to the actualities
of my theme. As Americans, we have
boasted of our liberties and cointe to boast
of them. They were once the nation's glory,
and, if some have vanished, it may be well to
remember that a remnant still remains. Out of
prison, beyond the limits of Russian injunctions,
out of reach of a deputy marshall's club, 
above the throttling clutch of corporations
and the enslaving power of plutocracy, out of
range of the government's machine guns and
knowing the location of judicial traps and dead-
falls, Americans may still indulge in the exaltation
of liberty, though pursued through every
lane and avenue of life by the by the baying hounds of
usurped and unconstitutional power, glad if
when night lets down her sable curtains, they
are out of prison, though still the wage-slaves
of a plutocracy which, were it in the celestial
city, would wreck every avenue leading up to
the throne of the Infinite by stealng the gold
with which they are paved and then debauch
Heaven's supreme court to obtain a decision
that the command "thou shalt not steal" is
unconstitutional.
Liberty, be it known, is for those only who
dare strike the blow to secure and retain the
priceless boon. It has been written that the




"love of liberty with life is given" and that
life itself is an inferior gift; that with liberty
exiled life is a continuous curse and that "an
hour of liberty is worth an eternity of bondage." 
It would be an easy task to link together 
gilded periods extolling liberty until the
mind, weary with delight, becomes oblivious
of the fact that while dreaming of security, the
blessings we magnified had, one by one, and
little by little, disappeared, emphasizing the
truth of the maxim that "eternal vigilance is
the price of liberty."
It is worth while to iterate that all men are
created free and that slavery and bondage are
in contovention of the Creator's decree and
have their origin in man's depravity?
If liberty is a birthright which has been
wrested from the weak by the strong, or has
been placed in peril by those who were comissioned
to guard it as Gheber priests watch
the sacred fires they worship, what is to be
done? Leaving all other nations, kindred and
tongues out of the question, what is the duty
of Americans? Above all, what is the duty of
American workingmen whose liberties have
been placed in peril? They are not hereditary
bondsmen. Their fathers were free born--
their sovereignty none denied and their children 
yet have the ballot. It has been called
"a weapon that executes a free man's will as
lighting does the will of God." It is a metaphor 
pregnant with life and truth. There is



nothing in our government it can not remove
or amend. It can make and unmake Presidents
and Congresses and Courts. It can abolish
unjust laws and consign to eternal odium and
oblivion unjust judges, strip from them their
robes and gowns and send them forth unclean
ss lepers to bear the burden of merited
obloquy as Cain with the mark of a murderer.
It can sweep away trusts, syndicates, corporations, 
monopolies, and every other abnormal
development of the money power designed to
abridge the liberties of workingmen and enslave 
them  by the degradation incident to
poverty and enforced idleness, as cyclones
scatter the leaves of the forest. The ballot
can do all this and more. It can give our
civilization its crowning glory--the co-operative 
commonwealth.
To the unified hosts of American working
men fate has committed the charge of rescuing
American liberties from  the grasp of the
vandal horde that have placed them in peril,
by seizing the ballot and wielding it to regain
the priceless heritage and to preserve and
transmit it without scar or blemish to the
generations yet to come.
	"Snatch from the ashes of their sires
		The embers of their former fires,
		And he who in the strife expires
		Will add to their's a name of fear
		That Tyranny shall quake to hear."



Standing  before you to-night re-clothed in
theory at least with the prerogatives of a free
man, in the midst of free men, what more
natural, what more in consonance with the
proprieties of the occasion, than to refer to the
incarceration of myself and associate officials
of the American Railway Union in the county
jail at Woodstock?
I have no ambition to avail myself of this
occasion to be sensational, or to thrust and my
fellow prisoners and myself into prominence.
My theme expands to proportions which obscure
the victims of judicial tyranny, and yet,
regardless of reluctance, it so happens by the
decree of circumstances, that personal references 
are unavoidable. To wish it otherwise
would be to deplore the organization of the
American Railway Union and every effort that
great organization has made to extend a helping 
hand to oppressed, robbed, suffering and
starving men, women and children, the victims
of corporate greed and rapacity: It would be
to bewail every lofty attribute of human
nature, lament the existence of the golden
rule and wish the world were a jungle, inhabited 
by beasts of prey, that the seas were
peopled with sharks and devil-fish and that
between the earth and the stars only vultures
held winged sway
The American Railway Union was born with
a sympathetic soul. Its ears were attuned to
the melodies of mercy, to catch the whispered
'I'.r



wailings of the oppressed. It had eyes to
scan the fields of labor, a tongue to denounce
the wrong, hands to grasp the oppressed and
a will to lift them out of the sloughs of
despondency to highlands of security and
prosperity.
Here and now I challenge the records, and
if in all the land the American Railway Union
has an enemy, one or a million, I challenge
them all to stand up before the labor world
and give a reason why they have maligned
and persecuted the order. I am not here to
assert the infallibility of the organization or
its officials, or to claim exemption from error.
But I am here to declare to every friend of
American toilers, regardless of banner, name
or craft, that if the American Railway Union
has erred, it has been on the side of sympathy,
mercy and humanity--zeal in a great cause,
devotion to the spirit of brotherhood which
knows no artificial boundaries, whose zones
are mapped by lines of truth as vivid as lightning, 
and whose horizon is measured only by
the eye of faith in man's redemption from
slavery.
I hold it to have been inconceivable that an
organization of workingmen, animated by such
inspirations and aspirations, should have become 
the target for the shafts of judicial and
governmental malice.
But the fact that such was the case bring
into haggard prominence a condition of affairs




that appeals to all thoughtful men in the ranks
of organized labor and all patriotic citizens,
regardless of vocation, who note the subtle
invasions of the liberties of the American
people by the courts, sustained by an administration 
that is equally dead to the
guarantees of the constitution.
It is in no spirit of laudation that I aver here
to-night that it has fallen to the lot of the
American Railway Union to arouse working-
men to a sense of the perils that environ their
liberties.
In the great Pullman strike the American
Railway Union challenged the power of
corportions in a way that had not previously
been done, and the analyzation of this fact
serves to expand it to proportions that the
most conservative men of the nation regard
with alarm.
It must be borne in mind that the American
Railway Union did not challenge the government. 
It threw down no gauntlet to courts or
armies--it simply resisted the invasion of the
rights of workingmen by corporations. It
challenged and defied the power of corporations. 
Thrice armed with a just cause, the
organization believed that justice would win
for labor a notable victory, and the records
proclaim that its confidence was not misplaced.
The corporations left to their own resources
of money, mendacity and malice, of thugs
and ex-convicts, leeches and lawyers, would





have been overwhelmed with defeat and the
banners of organized labor would have floated
triumphant in the breeze.
This the corporations saw and believed--
hence the crowning act of infamy in which the
federal courts and the federal armies participated, 
and which culminated in the defeat of
labor.
Had this been all, the simple defeat of a
labor organization, however disrupted and
despoiled, this grand convocation of the lovers
of liberty would never have been heard of.
The robbed, idle and blacklisted victims of
defeat would have suffered in silence in their
darkened homes amidst the sobbings and
wailings of wives and children. It would have
been the oft repeated old, old story, heard
along the track of progress and poverty for
three-quarters of a century in the United
States, where brave men, loyal to law and
duty, have struck to better their condition or
to resist degradation, and have gone down in
defeat. But the defeat of the American Railway 
Union involved questions of law, constitution 
and government which, all things
considered, are without a parallel in court and
governmental proceedings under the constitution 
of the Republic. And it is this judicial
and administrative usurpation of power to
override the rights of states and strike down
the liberties of the people that has conferred
upon the incidents connected with the Pullmnan



strike sutch commanding importance as to
attract the atention of men of the highest
attainmients in constitutional law and of states-
men who, like Jefferson, view with alarm the
process by which the Republic is being
wrecked and a despotism reared upon its ruins.
I have said that in the great battle of labor
fought in 1894 between the American Railway
Union and the corporations banded together
under the name of the "General Managers
Association," victory would have perched upon
the standards of labor if the battle had been
left to these contending forces--and this statement,
which has been verified and established
beyond truthful contradiction, suggests the
inquiry, what other resources had the corporations
aside from their money and the strength
which their federation conferred?
In reply to this question am far within the
limits of accepted facts whei say the country
stood amazed as the corporatios put forth
their latent powers to debauch such departments
of the government as were required to
defeat labor in the greatest struggle for the
right that was ever chronicled in the United
States.
Defeated at every point, their plans all
frustrated, outgeneraled in tactics and strategy,
while the hopes of labor were brightening and
victory was in sight, the corporations, goaded
to desperation, played their last card in their
game of oppression by an appeal to the




federal judiciary and to the federal administration. 
To this appeal the response came 
quick as lightning from a storm cloud.
It was an exhibition of the debauching power
of money which the country had never before
beheld.               
The people had long been familiar with such
expressions as "money talks," "money rules,"
and they had seen the effects of its power in
legislatures and in Congress. They were conversant 
with Jay Gould's methods of gaining
his legal victories by "buying a judge" in
critical cases. They had tracked this money
power, this behemoth beast of prey, into every
corporate enterprise evolved by our modern
civilization, as hunters track tigers in India
juigles, but never before in the history of the
country had they seen it grasp with paws and
jaws the government of the United States and
bend it to its will and make it a mere travesty
of its pristine grandeur.
The people had seen this money power enter
tie church, touch the robed priest at the altar,
blotch his soul, freeze his heart, make him a
traitor to his consecrated vows and send him
forth a Judas with a bag containing the price
of his treason; or, if true to his convictions,
ideas and ideals, to suffer the penalty of
ostracism, to be blacklisted and to seek in
vain for a sanctuary in which to expound
Christ's doctrine of the brotherhood of man.
The people had seen this money power



enter a university and grasp a professor and
hurl him headling into the street because every
faculty of mind redeemed by education and
conssecrated to truth, pointed out and illumined
new pathways to the goal of human happiness
and national glory.
The people had seen this money power
practicing every art of duplicity, growing more
arrogant and despotic as it robbed one and
crushed another, building its fortifications of
the bones of its victims, and its palaces out of
the profits of its piracies, until purple and fine
linen on the one side and rags upon the other
side, defined conditions as mountain ranges
and rivers define the boundaries of nations--
palaces on the hills, with music and dancing
and the luxuries of all climes, earth, air and
sea--huts in the valleys, dark and dismal,
where the music is the dolorous "song of the
shirt" and the luxuries rags and crusts.
These things had been seen by the people,
but it was reserved for them in the progress
of the Pullman strike to see this money power,
by the fiat of corporations, grasp one by one
the departments of the government and compel
them to do its bidding as in old plantation
days the master commanded the obedience of
his chattel slaves.
The corporations first attack the judicial
department of the government, a department
which, according to Thomas Jefferson, has




menaced the integrity of the Repubtic from the
beginning.
They did not attack the supreme bench. A
chain is not stronger than its weakest link, and
the corporations knew where that was and the
amount of strain it would bear. How did they
attack this weakling in the judicial chain?
I am aware that innuendoes, dark intimations
of venality are not regarded as courageous
forms of arraignment, and yet the judical
despotism which marked every step of the
proceedings by which my official associates
and myself were doomed to imprisonment, was
marked by infamies supported by falsehoods
and perjuries as destitute of truth as are the
Arctic region of orange blossoms.
Two men quarrelled because one had killed
the other's dog with an ax. The owner of the
dog inquired, "when my dog attacked you,
why did you not use some less deadly weapon?" 
The other replied, "why did not your
dog come at me with the end that had no 
teeth in it?"
There is an adage which says, "fight the
devil with fire." In this connection why may
it not be intimated that a judge who pollutes
his high office at the behest of the money
power has the hinges of his knees lubricated
with oil from the tank of the corporation that
thrift may follow humiliating obedience to its
commands?
If not this, I challenge the world to assign



a reason why a judge, under the solemn obligation
of an oath to obey the constitution,
should in a temple dedcated to justice, stab
the Magna Charta of American liberty to
death in the interest of corporations, that
labor might be disrobed of its inalienable
rights and thoses who advocated its claim to
justice imprisoned as if they were felons?
You may subject such acts of depotism to
the severest analysis, you may probe for the
motive, you may dissect the brain and lay bare
the quivering heart, and, when you have
completed the task, you will find a tongue in
every gash of your dissecting knife uttering
the oe word "pelf."
Once upon a time a corporation dog of
good reputation was charged with killing
sheep; though he had never been caught in the
act. The corporation had always found him
to be an obedient dog, willing to lick the hand
of his master, and they declared he was a
peaceable and law-abiding dog; but one day
upon investigation the dog was found to have
wool in his teeth and thence forward, though
the corporation stood manfully by him, he
was believed to be a sheep-killing dog. The
world has no means of knowing what methods
corporations employ to obtain despotic decrees
in their interest, but it is generally believed
that if an examination could be made,
there would be found wool in the teeth of the
judge.



I do not profess to be a student of heredity,
and yet I am persuaded that men inherit the
peculiarities of the primal molecules from
which they have been evolved. If the modern
man, in spite of our civilizing influences, books,
stage and rostrum, has more devil than divinity
in his nature, where rests the blame?
Leaving the interrogatory unanswered as it
has been in all the past, it is only reguired to
say that men with the ballot make a fatal
mistake when they select mental and moral
deformities and clothe them with despotic
power. When such creatures are arrayed in
the insignia of authority, right, justice and
liberty are forever in peril.
What reasons exist to-day for rhetorical
apostrophes to the constitution of the Republic? 
Those who are familiar by experience,
or by reading, with the pathways of the storms
on the ocean will recall recollections of ships
with their sails rent and torn by the fury of he
winds rolling upon the yeasty billows and
flying signals of distress. Clouds had for days
obscured sun and stars and only the eye of
omnipotence could tell whither the hulk was
drifting--and to-day the constitution of our
ship of state, the chart by which she had been
steered for a century, has encountered a
judicial tornado and only the gods of our
fathers can tell whither she is drifting. True,
Longfellow, inspired by the genius of hope,
sang of the good old ship:--



	"We know what master laid thy keel,
		What workmen wrought thy ribs of steel
		Who made each mast and sail and rope,
		What anvils rang, what hammers beat,
		In what a forge and what a heat
		Were shaped the anchors of thy hope."
But the poet wrote before the chart by which
the good old ship sailed had been mutilated
and torn and flung aside as a thing of contempt;
before Shiras "flopped" and before corporations 
knew the price of judges, legislators
and public officials as certainly as Armour
knopws the price of pork and mutton.
Longfellow wrote before men with heads as
small as chipmunks and pockets as big as
balloons were elevated to public office, and
before the corporation ruled in courts and
legislative halls as the fabled bull ruled in a
china shop.
No afflatus, however divine, no genius,
though saturated with the inspiring waters of
Hippocrene, could now write in a spirit of
patriotic fire of the old constitution, nor ever
again until the people by the all pervading
power of the ballot have repaired the old
chart, closed the rents and obscured the
judicial dagger holes made for the accommodation
of millionaires and corporations, through
which they drive their four-in-hands as if they
were Cumberland gaps.
Here, this evensng, I am inclined to indulge



in eulogistic phrase of Liberty because once
more I am permitted to mingle with my
fellow-citizens outside of prison locks ald
bars.
Shakespeare said:--
	"Sweet are the uses of adversity,
		Which, like the toad, ugly and venomous,
		Wears yet a precious jewel in his head."
I know something of adversity, and with
such philosophy as I could summon have extracted 
what little sweetness it contained. I
know little of toads, except that of the genus
judicial, and if they have a precious jewel in
their heads or hearts it has not fallen to my
lot to find it, though the corporations seem to
have been more successful.
The immortal bard also wrote that
	This our life, exempt from public haunt,
Finds tongues in trees, books in running
brooks,
Sermons in stones, and good in everything."
If to be behind prison bars is to be "exempt 
from public haunt," then for the past six
months I may claim such exemption, with all
the rapture to be found in listening to the
tongues of trees, to the charming lessons
taught by the books of the running brooks and
to the profound sermons of the stones. There
is not a tree on the Woodstock prison campus,



or near by, to whose tongued melodies or maledictions 
I nave not in fancy listened when
liberty, despotism or justice was the theme.
The bard of Avon, the one Shakespeare of
all the ages, was up to high-water mark of
divine inspiration when he said there were
those who could find tongues in trees, and
never since trees were planted in the garden
of Eden has the tongue of a tree voiced a
sentiment hostile to liberty.
Thus, when in prison and exempt from
judicial persecution, the tongues of trees as
well as the tongues of friends taught me that
sweets could be extracted from adversity.
Nor was I less fortunate when I permitted
my fancy to see a book in a running brook
as it 1aughed and sang and danced its way to
the sea, and find that on every page was
written a diviner song to liberty and love and
sympathy than was ever sung by human voice
And as for the stones in Woodstock prison,
they were forever preaching sermons and their
themes were all things good and evil among
men.
In prison my life was a busy one, and the
time for meditation and to give the imagination
free rein was when the dai1y task was over and
night's sable curtains enveloped the world in 
darkness, relieved only by the sentinel stars
and the earth's silver satellite "walking in
lovely beauty to her midnight throne."
It was at such times that the "Reverend



Stones" preached their sermons, sometimes
rising in grandeur to the Sermon on the
Mount.
It might be a question in the minds of some
if this occasion warrants the indulgence of the
fancy. It will be remembered that Aesop
taught the world by fables and Christ by
parables, but my recollection is that the old
"stone preachers" were as epigrammatic as an
unabridged dictionary.
I remember one old divine who, one night,
selected for his text George M. Pullman, and
said: "George is a bad egg--handle him with
care. Should you crack his shell the odor
would depopulate Chicago in an hour." All
said "Amen" and the services closed. Another
old sermonizer who said he had been preaching 
since man was a molecule, declared he had
of late years studied corporations, and that
they were warts on the nose of our national
industries,--that they were vulture whose
beaks and claws were tearing and mangling
the vitals of labor and transforming working
men's homes in caves. Another old Stone
said he knew more about strikes than Carroll
D. Wright, and that he was present when the
slaves built the pyramids; that God Himself
had taught His lightning, thunderbolts, winds,
waves and earthquakes to strike, and that
strikes would proceed, with bullets or ba11ots,
until workingmen, no longer deceived and cajoled
by their enemies, would unify, proclaim



their sovereignty and walk the eath free men.
O, yes; Shakespeare was right when he
said there were sermons in stones. I recall
one rugged-visaged old Stone preacher who
claimed to have been a pavement bowlder in
a street of heven before the gold standard
was adopted, and who discussed courts. He
said they had been antagonizing the decrees of
heaven since the day when Lucifer was cast
into the bottomless pit. Referring to our
Supreme Court he said it was a nest of
rodents forever gnawing at the stately pillars
supporting the temple of our liberties. I recal 
how his eyes, as he lifted their stony lids,
flashed indignation like orbs of fire, and how
his stony lips quivered as he uttered his maledictions
of judicial treason to constitutional
liberty.
But occasionally some old bald-headed ashler,
with a heart beating responsive to every
human joy or sorrow, would preach a sermon
on love or sympathy or some other noble
trait that in spite of heredity still lived even
in the heart of stones. One old divine, having
read some of the plutocratic papers on the
Pullian strike  and  their anathemas of
sympathy, when a workingman's heart,
throbbing responsive to the divine law of
love, prompted him to aid his brother in distress,
discussed sympathy. He said sympathy
was one of the perennial flowers of the 
Celestial City, and that angels had transplanted




it in Eden for the happiness of Adam and Eve,
and that the winds had scattered the seed
throughout the earth. He said there was no
humanity, no elevating, refining, ennobling
influence in operation where there was no
sympathy. Sympathy, he said, warmed in
every ray of the sun, freshened in every
breeze that scattered over the earth the perfume 
of flowers and glowed with the divine
scintillation of the stars in all the expanse of
the heavens.
Referring to the men and women of other
labor organizations who had sympathized with
the American Railway Union in its effort to
rescue Pullian's slaves from death by starvation, 
the old preacher placed a crown of
jewelled eulogies upon their heads and said
that in all the mutations of life, in adversity
or prosperity, in the vigor of youth or the
infirmities of age, there would never come a
time to them when like the Peri grasping a
penitent's tear as a passport to heaven, they
would not cherish as a valued souvenir of all
their weary years that one act of sympathy for
the victims of the Pullman piracy, and that
when presented at the pearly gate of paradise,
it would swing wide open and let them in
amidst the joyous acclaims of angels.
From such reflections I turn to the practical
lessons taught by this "Liberation Day"
demonstration. It means that American lovers
of liberty are setting in operation forces to



rescue their constitutional liberties from the
grasp of monopoly an its mercenary hirelings.
It means that the people are aroused in view
of impending perils and that agitation,
organization, and unification are to be the future
battle cries of men who will not part with their
birthrights and, like Patrick Henry, will have
the Courage to exclaim: "Give me liberty or
give me death!"
I have borne with such composure as I
could command the imprisonment wich deprived
me of my liberty. Were I criminal,
were I guilty of crimes meriting a prison cell,
had I ever lifted my hand against the life or
the liberty of my fellow-men, had I ever sought
to filch their good name, I would not be here.
I would have fled from the haunts of civilization
and taken up my residence in some cave
where the voice of my kindred is never heard.
But I am standing here without a self-accusation
of crime or criminal intent festering in
my conscience, in the sunlight once more,
among my fellow-men, contributing as best I
can to make this "Liberation Day" from
Woodstock prison a memorial day, realizing
that, as Lowell sang:--
"He's true to God who's true to man; wherever
wrong is done,
To the humblest and the weakest, 'neath the
all-beholding sun.



That wrong is also done to us, and they are
slaves most base,             
Whose love of right is for themselves and not
for all the race."
        	
        
        
    
